ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u1	87. Government report on the development of critical unemployment in the Czech Republic I ask Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to take the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. honourable Members, I would like to thank Mr Kováčik for his inclusion, respectively. putting forward a proposal to include this item at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, because I believe that unemployment is a problem that is real, unlike many virtual problems that are being discussed in the Czech Republic in public space. A problem that's freezingly real. I spoke here on the subject of unemployment already in February at the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On that occasion, I described the state of state administration as we began to adopt it with the accession of the government - the broken Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, broken information systems and broken structures of labour offices. I also mentioned in my last speech the wrong effort, particularly by the Nečasův government, which, in economic policy, pushed only to reduce public finance deficits, but completely ignored the stimulation of the economy, and hence economic growth and employment. This is also related to the situation in which we also found other ministries. In addition to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, there is also an obvious problem, for example, in the Ministry of Transport, where almost any new investment construction in our country has been stopped, even construction preparation has been stopped in the past and really the land purchase has also stopped. This is precisely what we are missing, which now that the government has changed, would allow us to start stimulating the economy again by public investment. It is evident that, before the government succeeds in using funds to promote economic growth, especially in the field of transport investment and infrastructure investment, the basic capacity of the state in our country must first be improved. So I described the situation in which we took over the country three months ago. You can certainly track my performance and the results of audits at individual ministries are also gradually appearing. Therefore, during this meeting, allow me to submit information on current unemployment in the Czech Republic. Although, particularly in the context of the start of seasonal work, there have been some slight improvements, this situation remains alarming. The number of registered job applicants, i.e. only those people we have in our records, which is far from all the people who could be in the labour market, is 608 315 people. This is about as much as the inhabitants of South Bohemia, Olomoucky or Zlínský kraj. I am convinced that in the first months of the government's accession, some of the steps that we have taken into the government and the ministries have already begun to manifest themselves positively. First of all, I would like to emphasise the rapid renewal of work activities and the functionality of labour offices. The Office of Labour of the Czech Republic registered a total of 40 808 job vacancies on 31 March 2014. The number of these jobs was 2,500 higher than in the previous month and 1 945 higher than in March 2013. Despite this improvement, there were on average almost 15 applicants for one job available. I will get that information about the total number of unemployed in our country. The fact that the employment authorities are gradually starting to play their role shows that a total of 5 737 job seekers were already located in March through the offices of the work of the Czech Republic. This is the number of people who are 3 935 people higher than in February and it is more than 3,000 people more than in March of the previous year. There has also been a change in active employment policy. As compared to January 2014, approximately 7 percent more people were supported in March in the form of an active State employment policy instrument. In March, more than 43 000 people were supported by active state employment policy instruments. Another significant increase, i.e. by 40 % compared to the beginning of 2014, was recorded as part of an active employment policy. In March, more than 12,000 people passed the requalifications. The highest increase was the area of support from the regional individual project Expert Practice for young people up to the age of 30, where 2,600 applicants were involved as at 31 March of this year, which is about 88 percent more than the month of January of this year. This programme is a programme that helps to place young graduates in the labour market, among other things, in educational fields and schools focused on various services such as gastronomy, hotel business or business. This gradual improvement in active employment policy is based on a clear change in the political task that came with the accession of the new government and the new leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This change in political commitment towards the maximum use of all active instruments of state employment policy is a direct result of the emergence of a new government and a change in policy in our country. I firmly believe that the figures that will relate to the development of unemployment for the month of April, which will be published the day after tomorrow, will show that a slight positive trend continues that the government, through the employment offices, is able to offer more jobseekers active instruments that aim to return to the labour market again. As regards additional information concerning unemployment, the total number of job applicants decreased by 2.7 % compared to the previous month in March 2014. Compared to January this year, the unemployment rate is about 3%. But these are still numbers that are unacceptablely high. In addition, it is enough to realize how many other people are not on the labour market because they, for example, delay their university studies or retire early. The problem remains high regional unemployment and large differences between regions. The lowest unemployment remains traditionally in Prague, Mladá Boleslav and Plzeň, the highest unemployment remains in northern Bohemia and northern Moravia. In the district of Bruntál it is 14,5 %, in Most 13,7 %, in Jeseník more than 13 %, in Ústí nad Labem also more than 13 % and in Karviná less than 13 percent unemployed. For both these regions, the government has confirmed the continuation of the operation of a special government agent in charge of coordinating and preparing projects that could help increase employment in the Moravian-Silesian region and the Ústí Region. [[9.20 hours]] I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, on Monday, three members of the government, including fellow Minister Marksová, will head to northern Bohemia, namely the area around Šluknov, which will address the situation in the region as a whole, not only the social and interethnic dimension of the crisis, but also the issue of active employment policy in the region. The government, as I have already described, has changed the policy on the use of the tools available to the labour authorities, so we are moving from passive trend monitoring to an active effort to create new jobs. At the same time, we also change policy towards investors who are interested in investing in the Czech Republic and creating new jobs here. It is one of the key priorities of the government, and it is also one of the key priorities for the Minister of Industry and Trade. It is not only investment that has been mentioned in the media, whether it is a question of further expansion of production at the Škoda Auto Kvasina plant, it is not just an investment by Amazon in Dobrovíz, but it is currently taking place through the CzechInvest agency further negotiations with other foreign investors, which should strengthen the emergence of new jobs in the Ústí Region and in the Moravian-Silesian Region, where the labour market situation is most critical. We are also trying to restore the functioning of the CzechInvest agency, which in the past has been badly damaged by unfortunate personnel actions and, overall, has been heading towards a downturn and demise in recent years rather than being used as a tool to support direct investment in the Czech Republic. I would also like to stress that the government is also paying attention to promoting economic growth in its policy. It is not only a question of investment and investment preparation, but also a question of promoting household consumption and supporting the demand side of the economy. That is why we have adopted decisions which aim to strengthen pension valorisation in the coming year. In a short period of time, we will also discuss the issue of further increases in minimum wages, and the government also moves in the field of taxation in such a way that it does not take money from households and families, that is, the government has decided not to raise value added tax and, on the contrary, we are preparing the first fall in value added tax rates next year, especially in relation to medicines. I would also like to mention other initiatives aimed at promoting economic growth. It is a question of the Green Savings Programme. It is a question of programmes that should be aimed at continuing to build flood control measures, including the issue of water retention in the countryside. It's a discussion about a social housing program. It is the preparation of a programme that should support municipalities that lack places in kindergartens and are considering extending the capacity of kindergartens or primary schools. These programmes will be gradually prepared during this year and a positive impact on economic growth and employment should start to manifest itself as of 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the new government has been operating for three months at the moment. It will not make excuses for the issue of unemployment on previous governments, but it is ready to use all the tools we have available to promote growth and to strengthen employment, to achieve a reduction in the number of unemployed people in our country. This will also serve the upcoming Act on the State Budget for next year. The government's aim is for this budget to be a budget that supports economic growth, supports investment and promotes the emergence of new jobs. The European Union funds are also an important instrument available to us in addition to the state budget. Even drawing them can help to create new jobs in our country, and it is very important here that we take all the measures that will result in the European Union's withdrawal from the country will not be stopped. I would now like to inform the Chamber of Deputies on this occasion about the two skeletons who fell out of our closet after the accession of the new government and who may be at great risk of risk of drawing funds from the EU. These are topics that have been known for years, but unfortunately no vigorous measures have been taken to correct the situation. They're so-called. permanent consistency, permanent conditions for the Czech Republic not only to be able to draw money from old funds, but also to prepare quickly without any delay to draw more than 500 billion more. CZK, which we have a chance to draw by 2020. The first problem that has not been addressed in the long run is the question of postponed effectiveness of the Civil Service Act. It is absolutely essential that we do not complicate the drawing of funds from the EU to make a new law on public service, virtually. the amendment began to apply no later than 1 January next year. Given that this proposal is being discussed by a Member of the House of Deputies initiative, it is very important that work be speeded up on the preparation of relevant amendments, and I would like to appeal unambiguously to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this amendment as soon as possible and in any case to ensure that, from 1 January next year, this law will not only be valid but also effective. Unfortunately, for the last ten years, we have witnessed a constant withdrawal of the effectiveness of the Civil Service Act. Most often with the argument that there is no funding for this. I believe that the amendment can be prepared in such a way that the impact on the state budget is essentially neutral so that there is no barrier to the risk of large spending in connection with the introduction of the Civil Service Act, but it is absolutely necessary that this law should apply, because if this does not happen, this is likely to be a reason, first, to stop the drawdown, and secondly, to delay the start of the drawdown between 2014 and 2020. So the first big problem that is here and which - I am not saying that indirectly, but I am saying that directly - can also affect the employment issue in our country, because if we have more than 500 billion to draw 2014 to 2020, that is exactly the money that can directly contribute to the creation of new jobs in a number of areas. The second skeleton concerns the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Again, although the previous governments had clear signals that the existing EIA, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, was not in line with European legislation, nothing happened. Nothing happened, years went by, and at this point there's a lot of pressure to solve the problem after the start of a new government. I want to assure you that the new government is paying very intense attention to the issue of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. There are negotiations with Brusel every week on how we can approve this law, and I assume that in a short period of time the government should send such a bill to the legislative process. I would also like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to act quickly, because the Environmental Impact Assessment Act will have to be approved in such a way that it will also be effective from 1 January next year. What can happen if we don't solve the EIA problem? There is a threat of a suspension of funds in the current, ongoing phase. This could affect the suspension of all projects that have gone through environmental impact assessments in recent years and have gone through an impact assessment in a situation where the law was not satisfactory, and, of course, unless we have this law approved in time, the drawdown of the fund will not start in another financial perspective. These are two serious conditions and two skeletons, which I would like to point out to the Chamber of Deputies, which we need to deal with very quickly, because this affects the economic situation in our country through the drawing of funds from the EU, and if this affects the economic situation, it also affects employment in the Czech Republic, not only this year, but also in 2015, 2016 and others. So this is a serious matter that needs to be dealt with. [[9.30 hours]] And the final comment on the European funds, the experience we are experiencing now. We have basically this year and next year to draw funds under the N+2. Obviously, in those resorts, in those operational programs where there was a fatal delay at the beginning, the delay at the end is either not going to catch up or is very difficult to catch up with. And if we look at operational programs where the biggest problem is, and it's the Operational Programme Environment, it's the Operational Programme Science and Development for Innovation, so it's obvious that the errors happened at the beginning, that the rate of draw wasn't set well at the beginning, and now after five years, it's very cruelly caught up with us as the whole Czech Republic. I don't want to talk about who the minister was at the time, but I want to talk about the fact that it's so important that we don't pick up any delays right from the start. We can learn, and we can react rationally. That's why I want to assure you that the government is making progress so that we don't waste any time. We have approved at the meeting of the Government The Partnership Agreement, which was forwarded to the European Commission to submit comments on it. By the end of June, all key operational programmes will be discussed and approved at government level in order to send them to the European Commission in time for discussion and comments. And I firmly believe that in active communication with the European Commission by the end of this year, we will achieve both the approval of the Partnership Agreement and the approval of the overwhelming majority of operational programmes, on the basis of which the Czech Republic should start to draw funds ideally at the turn of 2014 and 2015, necessarily already during 2015. It is crucial that we do not lose money and lose jobs in order to start drawing up individual operational programmes at the latest in the first half of 2015. If we are late now, in 2020, the Czech Republic may be in a critical situation. This is also the current priority of the government, and this issue is also very closely linked to the active employment policy and the possibility of supporting the creation of new jobs from the government level. The honourable Members have so much information on this point, which the Chamber of Deputies has put on its agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before I start the debate, let me make some organizational remarks. Mr Radim Fiala has a replacement card number 2. And another of the excused: within 10 hours, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes for business reasons and from 9 to 11.30 pm, Mr Michal Kučera for work reasons. Furthermore, Minister Svatopluk Němeček apologizes for working reasons for today's meeting day. I am therefore opening a general debate and Mr Pavel Kováčik was the first to enter it. Ambassador, I would like to inform you that you will be in charge of the intelligence report on this matter. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u4	I know that. Thank you very much, Mr President. Madame and gentlemen, Your Highness, I wish you a good day. I would like to thank Prime Minister Sobotka for responding with such a detailed report on the state of play, on how unemployment has been going on in the Czech Republic in recent months. I have also noted in the report that the government has good intentions of correcting the situation. It is a topic which, I would say, is one of the most important topics for the entire political scene, because, according to our court, the state is not only here, but I would say, in particular, that it should create conditions for its citizens to live here with dignity, to live here with dignity, to find help in the event of health or social difficulties. One of the first and decisive tasks of the state is to take care of it - and I say it with full knowledge and I underline the word "care" - so that citizens of the Czech Republic can find work. They could have found a job! Those who want to work do not feel frustrated, that despite being fully equipped with qualifications, being fully equipped with the forces of being young, at the top of their strength, or, say, in the last stage of active working life, they can apply their qualifications, strength, experience to the so-called labour market. They can't be left free development as it turns out, because the market will solve everything. That turned out not to be true. That the market in this case, as in most other cases, did not solve anything at all, because there is no free market here. It is bound by different laws or different approaches. And leaving employment, the jobs on the free market is, I'd say, criminal. Yes, the state should not take away its citizens' work, but at least it has to organize so that citizens of the Czech Republic can find their application and earn a decent living and not be dependent on, for example, benefits. I would like this to not be a subject. After all, when we came here for the first time in the previous meeting with this topic, we promised to attend to it at every meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to continue to do so if there is no significant decline, unless it is overcome by other, more important topics. And I don't see any much more important issues than employment and work. I see that this will be a crucial topic in the long term, or should at least be a decisive topic in the long term, our negotiations at each meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We should, say, have some insight into what the government is doing or preparing to do to reverse the critical situation in the development of unemployment. In recent weeks, maybe months, and now I don't know if it's reality, or if it's just because it's before some election, news of the end of the recession, about recovery, about even expecting growth. I'm not an economist, I'm not an economic operator, I can't assess the validity of these data. But if recovery, if growth, if the end of the crisis is not accompanied by a reduction in unemployment, we can tell citizens something about bright tomorrows and lights in the tunnel, but if unemployment is at such horrible numbers, there is no end to the crisis for citizens. For those citizens, the crisis continues. And yet it's getting more expensive, no matter what the rent, no matter what the water, no matter what, every need for a life. They get less and less with what they have at their disposal, if they're out of a job. Their standard of living is failing and their perspective is becoming darker. So if the recovery is real, it will also be accompanied by a reduction in the number of unemployed people. There will be more people who will have a perspective that they are not yet fully destined for old iron. I would like to propose a resolution and ask you for its support, so that the issue of dealing with unemployment does not completely disappear from our perspective. Of course, quality information has been submitted. I believe that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we should take note of this information, or the first part of the Roman one of my motion for a resolution is: I. The Chamber of Deputies notes the information of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the development of a critical state of unemployment in the Czech Republic. II. 1. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to adopt and implement a comprehensive set of steps as soon as possible to reduce unemployment and create new jobs. 2. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to provide information on the procedure and results of the implementation of these measures at each further meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[9.40 hours]] I would like to ask that, together with the broadest public, we make it clear that this is a crucial point of view for politicians, at least those in the Chamber of Deputies, at least those in the Czech Republic's government, regardless of whether it is opposition or coalition policies, because even the fact that we are going to signal to the public that what burns citizens is also interested in and burns us will be a positive message for the state of Czech politics. We don't just have to say that we're working, we can also work in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u5	I thank the President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club and ask that he take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Now for the debate itself. First of all, the Prime Minister is registered with a factual remark. I'll give him my word right now. Mr. Chairman, just a moment. Then there is one factual point and then they are duly registered with the priority right of Minister Michaela Tominová and President Fiala, and then the duly registered colleague Beznoska and colleague Laudát, with the fact that Mr Beznoska's written application has priority over Mr Laudát's colleague. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u6	Only very briefly indeed. When I listened to President Kováčik, I realized that I had still forgotten two important information in my speech concerning possible synergies between the Government and Parliament in addressing the issue of unemployment. One. There is already a government amendment in the Chamber of Deputies, which is proposed to increase the purchase prices for land under road construction. This is an important measure that can practically help thaw the preparation of new transport structures in the Czech Republic. I know there is an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies where this bill should be discussed. Once again, I would like to ask for the support of this government proposal, because this is exactly the concrete step that can be shown by real results in terms of the state's investment in transport infrastructure. This creates jobs, firstly, in a situation where construction takes place, but in particular, it creates jobs for investors who come to these regions at the moment when transport links are finally there. And I want to mention the R49 that we need to connect to the holešov industrial zone. Second important measure. I have asked the Minister for Regional Development to prepare an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, so called. a small amendment that should remove barriers as regards the rate of drawdown of funds. So this, too, will be a novel that will come to the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to ask for its support, because if we redeploy the law, it will again allow us to implement public investment in the Czech Republic more efficiently and more quickly, which will once again promote economic growth and job creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Vozka. Then the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome the Prime Minister's report and I agree with Mr Kováčik's proposal, because unemployment is indeed a major social problem. Since my mandate was established in the Ústí Region, I obviously lack certain indications of evaluation and access to this issue in the Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region, as the previous government resolution already commands the government to address this issue. That is why I would recommend that the Government recapitulate the implementation of this resolution and, at the same time, I would suggest that the Government come to a place, namely Mostecko, to familiarise itself with the views of the mayors and accept the invitation of the Economic and Social Council of the Ústecký Region and Mosteck to address the complex issue of unemployment on the ground. It is not only unemployment, but it is a problem of social tourism and other problems that I think need to be addressed in cross-cutting terms with the assistance of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u9	I thank Mr Vozka for his time. Now with priority rights, Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Marksová-Tominová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u10	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of the Government, Members and Members. I wanted to assure the President that my field of view will not undoubtedly disappear on the issue of unemployment. Otherwise, our ministry has traditionally instruments called. active employment policies, mentioned here by the Prime Minister. I would probably just repeat that these instruments help certain groups that are disadvantaged in the labour market, but they include long-term unemployed people, people over 50 years of age or, on the other hand, young people under 30 years of age, mothers after parental leave and some other groups. The aid consists either of giving employers a wage allowance to create a new job, or of giving people who choose to be self-employed, a contribution to starting this business, or - a classic - they are requalified. We normally use these tools and use them more and more intensively, and there are a number of programs. I'm not gonna name them here. If you would like, they are of course available. But what I want to say is what we are missing and what the previous speaker actually mentioned here is that we lack an evaluation of the real effectiveness of these instruments, especially in areas, let's call it micro-regions, because it's never the whole region where unemployment is highest, and that's what we had a meeting about last week at the Ministry, that we need to first look at how we are, how the instruments where they are most needed are actually being used, how effective they are. At the same time, if we are able - because there is enough money in this whole package for active employment policy, but we do not know at this time whether these decimated labour offices in all those areas are able to actually manage them. Unfortunately, we still have to look at this, however absurd it sounds, that these data are not in the Ministry. The fact that data are not in the Ministry is also related to confusion, it is still quite a decent word, in information systems, because the old-fashioned information systems were able to evaluate these things. Who we support exactly what's going on with these donations, how long and so on. We just don't have it at the moment because the information system was destroyed. And when we evaluate this, we want what is new, so we want to focus specifically on these areas, because the law gives us the opportunity to come up with new, very regionally specific programs, which means that, for example, in some area where unemployment is high, but there are small villages where social services are missing, so we can do a special program to support the rehabilitation of caregivers, or other things can be done, as I say, regionally specific. Another area that awaits us, which we are discussing right now, is that state firms make the most of where things are going, unemployed, working with labour authorities, and not taking on all kinds of seasonal jobs by people through agencies who are not even citizens of the Czech Republic. Another interesting area related to this is a project called "responsible public procurement" which actually allows public institutions and state-owned firms to take a wide spectrum into account when they award a public contract in order to take into account local conditions in some way. There may be a condition that the company that wins must use ten percent of the long-term unemployed, etc. We also want to promote this in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development. We already know it's possible, there's some opinion from the competition authority that it's not a problem, but it's more like we need to teach public institutions to use this to keep them from getting scared. That's the next challenge now. [[9.50 hours]] I also wanted to say about the physical visit to the most problematic areas that we are counting on. The Prime Minister mentioned here that we are going as three ministers to Šluknov on Monday. I was talking to councillors from Chomutov yesterday about going to Chomutov, and I was telling them that these visits, especially those two regions, Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian, are a priority for me to sort things out on the spot. As for the social pact, the Economic and Social Council of the Ústí Region and Moravian-Silesian Region, I have already established cooperation with them, which will definitely continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u11	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for her performance. Before further registration, I state an apology from 10 to 12 o'clock for Mr David Kasal and Vice-President Jermanová's work-related reasons from 10 o'clock to the morning meeting. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman ODS Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u12	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I agree, of course, that the issue of dealing with unemployment is and is to be one of the key priorities of the government, especially at a time when unemployment in the Czech Republic is reaching record numbers. However, I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister's words and his speech instead of hearing a programme of how the government would actually address unemployment, so it seemed to me that he was alibiing himself, because at the time when Nečasův' government was in power, which he mentioned, unemployment in the Czech Republic was very good numbers in international comparison. We were in seventh place in Europe when it comes to low unemployment, and today, of course, we are in a situation where we are reaching record numbers in the history of the Czech Republic. And the Prime Minister has not offered any solutions here, but he has just explained to us that there are many skeletons that we need to deal with in some way, just as I fear he has indicated to us that this government cannot properly prepare operational programmes so that we can start drawing on European funds in time. Well, Prime Minister, that really upset me. But I'm gonna say two short specific points about your performance. Firstly, if you listened to the Prime Minister as much as I did, you could ask yourself how the Civil Service Act is related to dealing with unemployment. And the answer is, of course, clear, but it is different from what the Prime Minister has put forward and which concerns the drawing of European funds. The answer is clear when we look at some numbers. In a hundred days of your reign, you have exchanged 500 high-quality officials at individual ministries, and you have placed 700 people who are your party's friends, who work at your companies, or even your family members. Well, here we have 200 jobs to protect. But I'm afraid you're creating these jobs in the wrong part of our state. That you are creating jobs that will not help reduce overall unemployment and will not improve the performance of the state administration. And second point. It is generally known that unemployment is being fought by reducing the cost of work and by motivating employers to create jobs. But what do you do? You raise the minimum wage and promise to increase the minimum wage in the next few years. This will only put those who are already at the highest risk of unemployment at risk, that is, low-income groups and people with low qualifications. So your unemployment reduction recipes can't lead to a reduction in unemployment, and I'm afraid that all you're planning here is really just cluelessness over how to solve the unemployment problem, and creating an alibi by bringing up some skeletons that really don't exist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u13	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Now two factual points - Prime Minister and rapporteur. So, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u14	Thank you. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President, I apologise for the second de facto, but I watch the debate and listen to what the speakers say. These two documents - one from the workshop of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the other from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the first one is the Ministry of Industry's measures to promote economic growth and measures of the Ministry of Industry Active Employment Policy - are two documents of the new government, which were submitted to the Council of Economic and Social Agreement and received support from both employers' representatives and trade unions representatives and tripartite approved them. So these are the two documents of the new government, they will be discussed in a short time in the government and include a very specific list of measures that we are already implementing in terms of promoting new jobs. I would only dare to argue with what President Fiala said here about creating new jobs. Indeed, the Civil Service Act is not an instrument for creating new jobs or for people related to the new government. I would like to argue that those who leave were experts, that they were people in their places. I really don't think so. Many of the people who are leaving are in trouble. They have problems with past public procurements, they have problems with activities that may already be investigated by the police, or maybe they have problems with cases such as the Promopro, when the Office of the Government has now been fined over half a billion crowns for the Promopro case, which took place five years ago. I hope that even President Fiala does not want us to keep the people responsible for these matters in state services and to keep them busy for the state. That is what I think is the thing that the new government must change, and people who are responsible for the errors in drawing funds from the European Union cannot continue to do so in government. And the last point concerning minimum wage. You know, that's 8,500 crowns rude today. What motivation is there for a man who works full-time and gets 8,500 gross? What is the difference between his standard of living and the standard of living of a person who receives social benefits and does not work? That's the very immoral thing that exists in our society, the terrible difference between minimum labour income and what a person gets if he doesn't work and gets only support from the state or from the community. And the difference has to be increased so that there's motivation to work here, and we're not going to increase it any other way than by gradually increasing the minimum wage and thereby gradually increasing the motivation to work. I am not saying from day to day, of course, that it must be very discreet, gradual, it must not endanger small and medium-sized companies, but in my opinion that seven years of minimum wage has not increased, so a certain space has been created that we can now fill by the fact that the minimum wage will gradually increase. But again, even an increase in minimum wage should discuss tripartite. There are employers' representatives sitting there, union representatives sitting there, and they should have every right to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u15	I thank the Prime Minister and now I have two factual points - the rapporteur and then Mr Beznoska and Mr Fiala. Is the Vice Prime Minister applying with priority rights or a factual remark? Mr. Vice Prime Minister, on a point of fact, or with priority rights? With priority rights, okay. So, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u16	Thank you. Just a few notes, because I might save the rest for the final word if we see it today, because at 11 o'clock we have fixed points. Surely no one will question the 2000-year-old postulate that the worker is worthy of his wages. Not charity. That's not what we're talking about. There's talk of wages. And no one will question the fact that an appropriate fair reward is also due for honest work. Not charity. And the minimum wage that today, and in a number of companies and in a number of institutions - more companies than institutions - many people do such work, which is valued by the minimum wage, out of nothing. Because they need to be stupid to be on doses that, after all, would mean a better level for them and the family, because they don't go to work, they don't have to get up too early and so on and so on. And yet he goes and works for that minimum wage. For this reason alone, it would be good for the minimum wage to differ more substantially from those benefits. In order to also appreciate the fact that those who work, though few, but work, bring something to society, that society also appreciates them and appreciates their, albeit unqualified, but necessary work better than by putting them into the role of outsiders. Though perhaps a moment comfortable, but that, I'm sorry, is very, very farfetched. So that's the first remark on minimum wage. I do not think that a passive measure, that is, by pushing the price of labour down, would help to reduce unemployment with this passive measure alone. That's why I suggest--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u17	Mr President, you have run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u18	Yes, I'm reporting again as soon as there's a factual point in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u19	Okay. Mr Beznoska and Mr Petr Fiala have now made factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u20	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will only briefly respond to the Prime Minister's speech. I agree, unemployment, over 600 thousand. unemployed, is a huge problem. But I'm sure we can't solve it with the political statements and the floscules that were said here. I would like to ask, in particular, because it was this government coalition that raised its hand for the state budget, in which it was 1.5 billion on active employment policy. koruna less than last year. The subsidy titles from the European Union programme were promised, so I wanted to ask what subsidy titles the APZ programmes will focus on and in what volumes. Because we're in May, and I assume if the government is acting, it's already clear on that. The Prime Minister was waving paper around. Paper, of course, can carry anything. I hope there are really concrete things on this paper. Two more plates. Note that the retraining passed from January to March 14,000. The employees, they're really nice, but this government has nothing to do with that. Those are the programs that were prepared by the governments of the past. Also, the youth training programme, 2,600 people, that is excellent, I agree, I am glad, but again it is not the credit of this government. I didn't hear anything concrete that this government in the A.P.Z., so often mentioned here, would do. So I hope that now either the Minister or the Prime Minister will return to the step and include us here with factual data on support from EU programmes, because 3.5 billion have been promised. Crowns. I'm very curious myself. As far as the minimum wage note is concerned, I'm sure I'll leave it to my colleague. Otherwise, I want to say so much that the Czech Republic has held one of the best positions within the EU in the long term under unemployment. Between fifth and seventh place, our order is oscillating, please, in the context of the start of the economic crisis in 2008. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u21	Now Mr Petr Fiala has also made a point of fact. And then the rapporteur also made a factual point. Then with priority rights, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, my factual point concerns, of course, the Prime Minister's factual point. In the beginning, I will say that I am surprisingly in agreement with him on one thing, namely that work must be paid and it is not good if the remuneration for work is lower than any social benefits. But what you're doing and what you're planning to do is you're going to raise - and you're increasing and you're doing it in the program - social benefits, but at the same time, in order to sort it out, you want to raise the minimum wage. And that's all the way to hell. This isn't a solution to unemployment, and it's not even a remedy for the things you're talking about. On the contrary, minimum wage in this respect is an obstacle to creating new jobs. And if you want to make work pay, so that it is not better not to work, so that it is not advantageous for citizens, then you have to go the other way and that is tightening up social benefits and providing social benefits only to those who really cannot, and not to those who do not want to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Now, the rapporteur's point of order and then the priority right, Mr Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u24	Thank you very much. That is why I also propose and follow up on my previous factual point in paragraph 1 II of my motion for a resolution, so that the government develops a comprehensive set of measures to bring it to the Chamber of Deputies. So that it's something that we can also hold on to and that a citizen would see that it's really a serious concern to deal with. As far as - and I have to answer through you, Mr President, to Mr Fial. Not only, but, to a decisive extent, this record unemployment was also involved in the current right-wing governance. That's what needs to be said. That hasn't come up yet. Perhaps from Prime Minister Sobotka in his innate decency. But that's what we have to say. And I think it is necessary, at least by supporting the motion for a resolution on the right, to show that it is also necessary or is of interest to correct it. So much for the things I needed to say at the moment in the commentary on the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u25	I thank President Kováčik and now two priority rights. First, Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My serious colleagues, my colleagues, I do not perform very often, but when I listened to Mr Fiala, it really did not give me a chance not to get out. I'd like to justify the personnel changes I've made. Yes, I made the personnel changes because the Matrix you built at the Treasury, especially the ODS with Mr. Kalousek, which worked very strangely, of course, when I got there, I changed people. I didn't bring anybody from my firm as you're trying to paint here, I just married an assistant. Yes, I traded the head of the State Price Printer because he was handing out gold bricks to wait for four miles. Crowns. He wasn't able to prove it. I've replaced people in charge of ecology. I finally understood how the environmental contract Mr Kalousek was supposed to work. That's where the boys would make 50 to 60 billion. Because the system is that our liabilities are 200 billion, so we have about 4 billion per year. And then somebody splits it up. And once upon a time, different people came to us and said, "I'll take care of it for you at the Ministry." You know, it's an environmental accident, and then you get it. There's a lot of businessmen going around and unloading, that's how it works. We've changed the gambling where Mr. Kalousek was the chief gambling representative. Gambling didn't pay tax here for 20 years, they had an exception. They pretended to give money to charity, and they put it from their right pocket to their left. So Mr. Kalousek has authorized Internet betting. Some of the companies. I read that Čunek claimed some 10 miles. then for KDU-ČSL. That's what he said in the paper somewhere. So we switched the gambling, too, yes. And we're presenting a bill amendment, we've taken precautions not to grant a ten-year permit. Yes, we had to change people. I've discovered various companies as PRISSIO. PRISK - We sued Volkswagen for 18 years, I don't know if anyone knew, and we paid lawyers there for 490 euros an hour. We gave them 65 miles. CZK over the years to lose the court and pay 310 miles. Crowns. And so on. [[10.10 hours]] So I can keep going. We have the Treasury, the great one that we put 4.6 billion in, and we can't figure out which resorts have the cost in detail today. Yes, the state budget negotiations are not in detail. We don't know exactly how many individual resorts pay for lawyers, how much they pay for electricity, how much gas they have running costs. We don't know that. We have a state representation agency in property matters, where there was also a director, where there's a CRAB system that costs 260 miles. And the 60-mile traffic, where all the properties were supposed to be filled up. Of course, that's not happening at all. So I don't know what else to do in a hundred days. You're criticizing the government, employment. Everyone's talking about employment. I don't know how many people you employ, I employ quite a lot of people. How did you solve the business base, the transport infrastructure? That you've been dealing with Havránková for 18 years? That today, the Prachař is finally proposing some kind of land buyout to make it move? That it takes 16 or 17 years to build a freeway here? So, yes, our government is trying to solve it and deblock it. We don't even have routes drawn on the base highway network today. The Austrian Ambassador says the highway to Linz... That they ended up seven kilometers away from the Czech border, because they're waiting for us to tell them where our highway might be mouthing sometime. Yes? And it's everywhere anyway. We don't have highways either on Vienna or on Linz or on Dresden or on Krakow etc. So I don't know what we're talking about. Who's been dealing with the Civil Service Act for 12 years? Who here has been dealing with water regulation for so long since we joined the European Union? And so on. So it's really smiling to hear the criticism here, when I really think the government is clear on what it wants to do. And employment. Yes, we want to address employment and solve it. And the basis of employment is the transport infrastructure. Foreign investment, stable taxes, low electricity prices. Thank you for a thousand billion solar tunnels, which has also helped everyone in our country, citizens and industrialists. And, of course, some stable foreign policy. Searching for foreign investors. And that's all we do. And I think the government is very clear on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Now, Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Secretary Marksová Tominová, then, in fact, I have four comments so far, just as you volunteered, I'm already registering you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to start by saying that the ODS has ruled here for seven years. And the recipe that sounds like we're going to lower the cost of work is fascinating - but why hasn't it been applied here or why hasn't it gotten any good results? I have one good result, good in quotation marks, and that is the difference between the number of unemployed between 2007 and 2013. Of course, we're not ugly enough to blame everything on the ODS, there was an economic crisis. However, the issue in 2007 states 354 800, the end of 2013 is 596 800. Your recipe obviously didn't work. And I'm totally fascinated by the ODS telling us how to do it now. How are we supposed to do that so that we have lower doses, lower the cost of work, and that suddenly jobs are created here? I really ask repeatedly: where are they in those seven years? I just can't see them! Otherwise, about the social benefits. Of course, there is a lot of information going around about how great it is to live out of them, but I repeat again what has already been said here in the last debate: The minimum life for one adult lonely person is 3,400 and the existential minimum for those people who do not go to work repeatedly has problems, is 2,200. Those are the sums that the state has to give these people, because I suppose we don't want those who don't actually work to work, because they're not able to, they're not willing to, so we just can't let them starve anyway. And 2,200 is really an existential minimum. Of course, the next question that I have already mentioned here is how, especially in the worst regions, to use tools such as community service, and if we can get the public service back, so that we can get these people to work at least to earn their existential minimum in quotation marks. And that's what this government wants to do, what I was talking about. But again, I see a little bit of differences in seven years and three months. We're just not some superhuman robots and supermen and super women to catch up in three months on what's been broken and neglected in seven years. Otherwise, there are many questions about projects financed by the European Social Fund. I have detailed figures on how much money was spent on them during the period. It contains the report that went through tripartite, where, by the way, it needs to be stressed that employers appreciated it too, so it's not like we're gonna make some kind of report that we're gonna get approved by the union and no one else. We're gonna put this report on the government, and then we're gonna multiply it up here, because I don't think it's worth me reading individual programs and individual amounts for 15 minutes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u29	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Now priority rights in order: President Fiala, President Stanjura, colleague Beznoska and President Kalousek. Please, in this order. These are all factual remarks, please. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u30	I am glad that my factual remark provoked the Minister of Finance to tell us something, too. However, I would like to assure him that my comment on 500 released state officials and 700 newly admitted did not just concern the Ministry of Finance. I understand you wouldn't be able to handle a ministry in such a short time. I was intrigued by two things. First. You, Minister of Finance, said you employ a huge number of people. I recently read somewhere that you're no longer in business, so I see some contradiction. But I'm not asking you to explain either. I wanted to draw your attention to another matter. You also said that the Ministry of Finance was on a rampage or, as you used it, the Civil Democratic Party with Mr Kalousek. So you may have some information other than mine, but I really don't know that Miroslav Kalousek was a member of the Civil Democratic Party when he was the Minister of Finance. I do not rule out that in the future. [[Reply in plenary, an unintelligible scream from the right, apparently from Mr Kalousek, a laugh.]] I'm not defending myself, we can talk about it, but it just hasn't yet, and it isn't. Minister Kalousek represented a completely different political party than the Civil Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u31	Thank you. Now, President Stanjura, with a factual point and then further factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u32	Thank you for the floor. So the Minister of Finance used his usual tactics. Instead of responding, he starts attacking and wants to deal with things that have been solved for a long time. I don't know what kind of traffic information you have, but if we talk about going to Vienna, ask your coalition partners why this region doesn't have a zoning plan, you can't build it. [[A note off the microphone from the Prime Minister.]] I know the court canceled, the Prime Minister here tells me. I know that, of course. But it is the only region in which the principles of territorial development are abolished, unlike other regions where it has not been abolished. And don't tell me we don't know where the routes will lead. We know... [[He's turning back to the Prime Minister and talking to him off the microphone.]] I don't think the Prime Minister has to say anything to me. He spoke in his opening words for quite a while today, and no one stood behind him and yelled into his ear and threw it away. And I only have two minutes. [[10.20 hours]] Maybe the Minister of Finance will stop the eco-order that we stopped. When he talked about the solar tunnel, look how the party voted if the ODS was the only one against or your coalition partner. I'm the same critic of the money for renewables and the fact that it's even been created. But direct criticism to whoever did this. I know it's not right for you to sit next to you in government benches, so you have a universal culprit to the right of you. Madam Secretary said that reducing the cost of work is a completely wrong concept. I wonder if the Minister of Finance thinks that cutting labor prices is a completely wrong concept. And yet the Minister of Finance, I was on the Committee on Budgets, says "I am opposed to increasing the payments for civil servants," but he votes in favour, or his colleagues vote in favour. On the same budget committee, he said, "I am opposed to introducing a third VAT rate," but he is preparing it. And that's coalition rule. I understand. When you're this critical of your coalition partners and you know how to choose what's right, you do what's wrong, and what's wrong, your coalition partner does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u33	Mr President, you have run out of time to make a point of fact. I'm going to repeat the factual remarks I have logged in. Now, Mr Beznoska, then President Kalousek, Deputy Prime Minister Babiš and Mr Birke. These are factual remarks before the proper programme. Please, now my colleague Beznoska. He doesn't want to. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Chairman of the TOP 09. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a very brief response to the Minister of Finance. He said I've been gambling for 20 years, and 20 years of gambling hasn't been taxed. Perhaps it would be appropriate to add that I was the first finance minister to really enforce gambling taxation. I didn't allow Internet betting to some companies, I allowed it to be on some bets to all companies, and the benefits to the state budget are documented and verifiable. The Treasury does not have detailed information about the costs of individual resorts. Not because they don't have the capacity, but simply because some resorts refuse to deliver the data. After all, the Minister of Finance himself wrote to the Supervisory Committee a report stating that the Treasury is operational and fully satisfactory. In this way, it would be possible to comment on each sentence and to correct every sentence communicated by the Vice-President of the Government. Mr Vice-President of the Government, you could have said that you were completely out of line in a much shorter time than you had given this message.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u35	Thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. I will read the apology from today's meeting before the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's speech. Karel Schwarzenberg, Chairman of the Foreign Committee, apologizes on account of work issues. Mrs Nina Nováková, Mrs Kristýna Ledvinková and Mr Václav Zemek apologize. [[Probably Zelienko.]] Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor on a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u36	Thank you. I would like to respond to Mr. Fiala's comment. When he founded Mr Kalousek, it was called Topolánek 09, they actually did it together, so there really isn't much difference between it, but I would just return to your traditional habit of political deputy. There was a Zajíček and some of Mr. Tluchoř's nominees. So it always worked so well that Kalousek was a minister. He was doing his business, and actually Zajíček was doing his business again. It's kind of a tradition. I know who was where and who was doing what. I'm sure I'd be happy to present to the public the supertunnel Mr Kalousek prepared, the environmental contract where the boys wanted to make 50, 60 billion. I'd like to thank Mr. Nečas for stopping it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u37	I thank the Vice-President of the Government. Now, with Mr Birke's factual remark and Mr Holeček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully read the title of today's point. It's the Government's report on the development of a critical state of unemployment. Allow me to see - for several times now here in the House - the mayor of the city. When I listen to the previous speakers above all from the true political spectrum, a smile is sneaking into my face because I have a feeling that we have all forgotten when, Mr Kalousek, through you, Mr President, your Minister Drábek has taken the payment of social benefits from the cities to the employment authorities, which has clearly paralyzed the employment authorities, because today's current situation is that the number of employees at the employment office has not been increased. We have to send city cops to keep an eye on officials, and there is absolutely no active employment policy! So businessmen today turn to the mayors of the cities and say, "Offices of work don't have time for us, please help us, mayors, we need 50, a hundred people." It's just reality! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mr Holeček and then the Chairman of TOP 09 on one more factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been taking notes from two performances by Mr. Andrej Babiš: different people come to me, different politicians come and say: some guys should make 50 to 60 billion, various strange companies appear, there was some director, there were some nominees for Mr. Tluchoř. Andrej Babiš has traditionally dropped charges. But why isn't it specific? Why aren't you named? This may be the way an activist can behave, but even with an activist, I already consider it strange. But this must not be the way a politician behaves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u42	I am very sorry to delay, but since some lies tend to live their own lives and pretend to be true, I am simply allowing myself to put some of the most vicious lies of the Prime Minister's lie to the right. No one's stopped anything in connection with the ecotendre. The ecotendr took place, and since no offer met the criterion of advantage, as Minister of Finance, I put forward a proposal to the government that we should not choose any candidate, and the government approved my proposal. That's exactly what happened, and you need to know, because you have these documents at your disposal at the Ministry of Finance. Yet you lie like he's printing. I don't blame you. I understand you can't teach an old dog new tricks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u43	Thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. A colleague of Stanjura has made a point of fact. Then Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Also a point of fact, or with priority rights, Mr Vice-President? [[It's factual.]] Okay. Please, colleague Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u44	I would like to respond to the words whether I have read well in the press today, Mr. Birke's shadow minister of transport. I agree with him in many ways. We have a common experience with self-government. At the time when it was the transfer of city officials to the employment offices, I personally and my colleagues negotiated with the leadership of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and we said: "If you do not want to, because we would recommend it, we will be against it." But this organization finally agreed to the proposal. That's what I'm saying. Not after something goes wrong, saying there was only one culprit. There were certainly more of those guilty. And we, who have experience in town halls, said: "Take it all, including social security, or leave the social investigation in the cities and just technically pay it out, which is quite logical for people not to run to two different offices and go to one window for money. " Unfortunately, a model was chosen that proved to be dysfunctional. But it should be said that at the time we asked the representatives of the government, not the individual mayors. I believe maybe Mayor Birke would agree with me then and today that we have the same view of it, but that's how it sounded. Then you always have to say the whole thing. I don't think it's happy either. I think that one thing is the technical payment and the other is whether the proposal is made or not. And here I am convinced that the social workers of cities and municipalities know this much better than the officials of the employment office. I don't blame people at the employment office. They have different competences, different time, so we can fix this so that those who know the situation in each family know whether the claim is justified or not. [[10.30 hours]] And when the secretary spoke of the benefits, of course there are people who deserve them and are supposed to receive them. We're just arguing about how to get rid of the stowaways. And we could be, I'd say, in agreement, too. We are not talking about those who are in a difficult life situation, needing help - and what is crucial is that help deserves it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u45	Thank you. Now one more point in fact by Mrs Marta Semelová and then by Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš with a proper application with priority rights. Then perhaps there will be time for the others properly logged in. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u46	Thank you. I would just like, Mr President, fellow Members, to remind you why this point has been proposed here and is repeatedly proposed by us at each meeting. It is because there are about 750 000 unemployed, that each fifth graduate does not have a job, that work is not made by people over 50 years of age, women after maternity leave etc. etc. That is why we always want to address this issue at the meeting so that we can move on to really address unemployment in some way, and we want to know this information. What is happening here now, however, from the ODS Members and some others, is mutual assault, mutual insulting, searching for completely different problems than what we have raised this problem for, and the unemployed person is completely behind it. Just like people who don't have an objective job need benefits, so they're totally in the background just to make themselves visible here with their own problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u47	Thank you, Madam Member, and now Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš is with priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u48	Thank you. I would just answer the previous speaker and repeat that I am not a politician. I'm here for the citizens. [[Speech of disapproval of some Members.]] The YES movement was successful because you guys were bankrupt. You've decomposed this state! You haven't been able to build those goddamn highways in 24 years! You're talking about unemployment? Why don't we have fast trains? Why do the unemployed from Ústí and Ostrava not get to Brno or to Prague by quick train? What are you talking about? Mr. Kalousek, let him tell us how he paid the pensioner from the suburbs of Suffolk 1.6 billion for the TOZs, when the criminal, his Šnábl, organized arbitration against our state, and a criminal complaint is filed against him! What are you talking about? This is where you broke up this state in 20 years, and we came here because it just doesn't work! So what are you talking about? And the 60 billion you wanted to do on the environmental contract, I'm gonna post it on the web, those bloated contracts where you were set up to make money on it. And the fact that you wanted to deal with it across the political spectrum, everyone knows that. And the fact that, of course, you built the Matrix and made the justice mafia here that you brought in the prosecutors and the cops and some judges, yes, that's perfect! Really, great!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u49	Thank you. I have also signed up with Mr Kalousek's factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u50	I just don't think we can allow the confusion of terms from here in the Chamber of Deputies. We are all citizens here because only Czech citizens have the right to vote and they have elected us all here. A member of the Government and a member of the Chamber of Deputies is a politician, even if he claims he is not. It's just like when he says he wasn't a StB agent. [[Laughter from the right.]] Then you might as well say he's not a politician. It is because he is a member of the government and is a member of the Chamber of Deputies. Once again, for the winner of an environmental contract, I proposed not to choose anybody for the government, which means it was hard for anyone to push a tunnel when the proposal fell from me so we wouldn't pick anybody. As for the tůz, the Toz approved and paid for by the government of Jiří Rusnok. Again, we simply need to set some things straight. The Vice-President is simply - I don't know whether he's not informed or intentionally - but he's lying almost all the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u51	Thank you for keeping time. Furthermore, with a factual remark, Mr Stanjura is registered here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u52	I wonder how Babiš's nepolitik citizen will investigate him because of possible abuse of internal information, whether the ordinary non-politics citizen can say: I told that information to the newspaper editor in the Chamber of Deputies and I was protected by immunity. I haven't noticed yet that non-politicals, ordinary citizens, are protected by immunity. And it's his statements, not mine. And one final point. I'm not surprised the former communist says we had a very good time here until 1989, and it's been going downhill ever since. I'm really not surprised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u53	Thank you. Furthermore, Mr Petr Fiala is in order with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u54	I'm just thinking about the logic of some statements. I'm not a businessman, but I employ thousands of people. I am Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Chairman of the political party, MP, but I am not a politician. This is completely absurd. Of course, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, you are a politician as I am a politician and we can tell people anything else, but we are politicians and we should do it with full responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u55	Ambassador, only through me. [[Speech of disapproval in the Chamber.]] No? Yes, you're right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u56	I'm sorry... That is not necessary, because I am speaking to a member of the government, and I have also marked Mr Babiš this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u57	Yes, you're right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u58	I was about to quit, but you took my conclusion. I end by saying to Minister Babiš that the figure here, with the fact that he is not a politician, is completely ineffective. We are all the same in this House, we are politicians and keep political responsibility in mind. The only thing that we should perhaps be more restrained about and show that we are politicians who are elected citizens of this country and have a responsibility to them is, for example, using expressions that correspond to the dignity of the Chamber of Deputies, and not using dirty words like you did a while ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I also have an application with Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš's point of view. [[A messenger also called for the word. A blacksmith.]] I thought you were applying with priority rights. [[No.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Mr. Mr. Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u60	Thank you. I forgive you for overlooking, Mr. Control, otherwise you drive very well. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - Thank you. Laughs in the hall.]] I, colleagues, am proud to be a politician, and I am proud to be a communist politician. And I am proud that the voters in the Vysočina Region trusted me so much that they gave me so many votes that I can be a politician, because I consider the position of politics to be a serious and responsible and necessary craft, unlike many others. I'm not really ashamed of it. Someone has to do the job, too. We have, at least, a parliamentary democracy. And we here as politicians fill parliamentary democracy with those political workers, if that's the case. But I didn't mean to say that. I would like the avalanche discussion to go back to the subject line. We can endlessly blame ourselves for what we ever are, and maybe we are right, maybe we are wrong, but these people may be looking at us and wondering something about not wanting to be politicians because they just don't - or we don't fill some - in this discussion what is given to the subject. [[10.40 hours]] And it is absolutely fascinating, and those people who are looking at it, especially those who have just lost their jobs or haven't had them in the long run, listening to such arguments as to how great we are within the European Union in unemployment - the sixth to the seventh. Well, let's tell them, those who humiliately every month and so on and so on must be standing in line at some office or explaining to the family why they can't not go on vacation, but why they can't possibly get this or that child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u61	Thank you. Before we continue our discussion, I have two announcements. First of all, Mr Pavel Čihák apologizes from 18 o'clock today for work reasons and further, today will be the vote with the replacement card number 10 by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Zaorálek. Now with a factual remark duly registered by Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u62	For the last time, I would perform here for disgruntled citizens. I would like to say that Aristoteles said that politicians are the best of us, the wisest, the most hardworking, have the greatest morale. Citizens - there are our politicians. Twenty-four years, one crew ran this country and led it where it went. Yes? So I'd like to remind you of that. I think it might have gotten out of hand, the characteristics of the politicians. I don't know why a politician is like the least respected job. Even the cleaning lady who cleans properly, she's in front of him. And the CNB investigation. Please, this isn't an investigation. I know you have one program - ODS and TOP 09. What would you do if it wasn't for Babiš? You wouldn't have a program! You have an anti-babish! Just like your server echo24, who's lying again that I'm being investigated. I'm not under investigation at all. I've expressed myself, and I'm looking for resources. Unlike you, who only put those resources in their own pockets, I'm looking for resources. And I said, yeah, ČEZ would be a good source. So there's no investigation. I have notified the Czech National Bank that I have met Mrs Kubátová here on the ground and that I have given her this opinion on condition that the coalition agrees. That's all. That some editor who works for the ODS long-term and once worked in the Lidové noviny is gonna write lies, and you're saying that you're recording it as some kind of control came in yesterday. Mr. Kalousek probably knows better that there's a checkup. Maybe he sent her there when he was running the place in the past. So, of course, this is your game, nonsense and lies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u63	Thank you. Furthermore, with a factual remark, Mr Korte is entered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act on Rules of Procedure states that the language of the Chamber of Deputies is Czech. The Hatmatilka, spoken by the Minister of Finance Babiš, is only very remotely approaching the Czech language. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the law, please. I understand that this may be difficult for Mr Babiš, but the old Roman principle of lex dura, sed lex - it's a hard law, but it's a law. I quote from Section 65 of the Act on Rules of Procedure: If a Member does not speak Czech, his speech to the Czech language is interpreted if one Member requests it. At least one. All right, ladies and gentlemen, I am the one and I ask that Mr Babiš's speeches be translated into the written language of the Czech language! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u65	In that case, Mr Member, I need to clarify - just get to the microphone so that it is on the screen record - whether on your part this is really a procedural proposal that you want to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u66	Sorry, I can't vote on that. Those are the words of the law. If the Member does not speak Czech, his speech to the Czech language shall be interpreted if at least one Member so requests. I asked for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u67	Okay. In that case, there is a question, here and the dialect must be translated into the written Czech language. And at this point, I do not see it as justified to vote on this. You can, of course, object to my progress, but I think at this point it's unvoting. If you want, raise an objection - let the House decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u68	Excuse me, Mr President. You are misreading the Rules of Procedure. That shall not be put to the vote. You're not supposed to put it to a vote. You're from making sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u69	Okay. In that case... I've got a proper logged in here, there's a lot of them. Wait for the situation to calm down, sign up with a factual remark. At this point, we must deal with Mr Korte's remark. Since the Chamber of Deputies speaks Czech and the Vice Prime Minister speaks Czech, I do not see any way to provide translators. We'll continue the negotiations. At this point, Mr Kalousek is another duly signed up with a point of fact. I'll ask Mr Kalousek. And possibly others who want to sign up with a factual remark, either log in electronically or show me. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u70	Thank you. I would just like to point out that you have opposed yourself, Mr President. You just said you were speaking with dialect. In that case, I would like to clarify what the dialect is. And then you said it wasn't dialect, it was Czech. I'll admit I don't understand you. But I volunteered without competing with the Professor of Political Science to try to explain the contradiction when someone says "I'm not a politician" and yet objectively is a politician. From a certain point of view, public budgets are a constant struggle between an organized minority who wants to take more from public budgets than it deserves, against an unorganized majority called taxpayers. The duty of politicians should be to side with the disorganized majority. From this point of view, Andrej Babiš is undoubtedly not a politician. However, on the statement "I am not a politician," I recommend that I always give this expert explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u71	Thank you, including keeping time. Mr Stanjura is next in line with the factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u72	I would like to draw Mr Babiš's attention to the fact that he is incredibly overestimating his person. We really don't have an anti-babish program. Our program is not to talk about you. Our program is to promote your ideas, your suggestions, your values, and to draw attention to what we don't see in yours. But to your size, how impressed you are with how this Andrej Babiš is at least the most important in the Czech Republic, so you misconceive that we are dealing with your person programically. You're the one who always says, "I've got the information on you, I've got the information on you" and "I've got the information on you" again. You're dealing with us, not the program. And you're not willing or able to answer material questions. I don't give a damn what you choose from it. Once again, you're not so big, you're not so important as to be part of our program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u73	Another registered comment is Mr Josef Hájek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u74	Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region. I don't know if Mr. Korte has ever been there, but there is hardly anyone speaking Czech. [[The blast of laughter and spontaneous applause.]] So I'm afraid if I get emotional again and jump into our Moravian-Silesian language, you'll be asking for a translator too. [[10.50 hours]] I am Čech made in Prešov, so I also have some Slovak roots, but born in Olomouc, so I fulfil all the requirements of Czech citizenship. [[Laughing in the hall]] I'd just like to ask because it's going somewhere else I think none of us wanted to go, but here you use, like, Mr. Korte, Mr. Kalousek, Latin words, so for us miners, please, always translate it into Czech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u75	Thank you. Another point of fact is duly registered by Mr Opálka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My colleague Hájek took it from my mouth. You know, I got scared too when my colleague Korte got off, because what are we going to do with the Czech language? The Czech language law of the last House, when presented by the club KSČM, was rejected. We have an academic vocabulary here, but I confess that we spoke Silesian in the family I grew up in. It is Silesia's shocking region and sometimes I have problems with Czech today. So now I'm scared if we're not being translated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u77	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Zlatuška. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u78	Mr President, on the one hand, I would like to point out that if my colleague Korte here insists on translating that he should first prove his point that he does not hear Czech here, for example, and prove it with an expert opinion. There's no standard. I am aware that Mr Korte can identify with our former East Neighbor. In Russia, President Putin has just passed the law that it is necessary to speak in writing and not to use dirty words. And thank God we don't have that here yet. There was talk here in the political terms who he is or is not a politician. I would like to remind our honored colleague, President of the ODS, how much it pays to play politics, to be in touch with the political party in question, and then to end up as President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u79	Thank you. Mr Kováčik is also in line with the factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 11th hour is approaching, when we, as the Chamber of Deputies, by our decision yesterday, have included points 4 and 5, or 5 and 6, another very important topic, the Food Act, where I am also the rapporteur, and I would like to take a breather among those points. But that's not the point. I know I can't take anyone - there are characters here that can talk at any time and to anything because they have priority rights and we are club presidents and we have that right and we will defend it, but at this point I would like to ask or challenge - those disputes that are, or are not politicians, who are watching or impeaching etc., simply all disputes that do not concern what is written as this point, the Government report on the development of a critical state of unemployment in the Czech Republic, went out into the galleys, or perhaps after 19 o'clock, after the expiry of the day of the meeting, somewhere to the glass. But let's get back to the matter, so it doesn't get translated by the public, as the parliament has done, the mountain has given birth to a mouse. We haven't even given birth to the mouse at this point yet. But we've heard a lot of each other's attacks, insults, invectors, sometimes funny things, but she's no fun at all about unemployment. It's a really serious subject. Let's go back to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u81	Thank you. Another duly registered point of fact is Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u82	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, in the last parliamentary term, social democracy was in opposition, and we have asked the Chamber of Deputies many times to include similar points, reports on some agendas. In any event, the then government coalition rejected these proposals. We wanted to be different. You know that since the beginning of the parliamentary term, we have been in favour of the opposition and we approve the inclusion of government points, information on unemployment, Ukraine, enforcement of law, etc. But we're not talking about unemployment. And I'm really not ready for this kind of debate, and I think we're all wasting our time. So, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, the next time we don't approve you of a point like this, don't be surprised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u83	Thank you. Another duly registered point of fact is Mr Kalousek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u84	Thank you for the floor. I am very sorry to the rapporteur, but I do not think that if democratic concepts are quite incorrectly used, that we should resolve this in the machine. Unlike Aristotel, I don't think there's an elite nation here. There's just a normal sample of the company. However, it is important that there are no confusing concepts from here, so that it is quite clear what is the responsibility of the House, what is the responsibility of the government, who is the politician, who is not the politician, because confusing the concepts that are very often heard here can lead to false impressions of what democracy is. It is necessary to explain these basic concepts if we are not orienting ourselves in them. I apologize to Mr Hájek. I'll fix it. Sancta simplicitas is usually translated as sacred simplicity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u85	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u86	So I was glad to hear from my fellow Member, Mr Sklenák, that they are very friendly to the opposition. I don't really see it that way, but I'm not complaining that we understand each other. Really, no complaint. So that point about justice was suggested by your party colleague. You say - we have met the opposition, we have approved the point proposed by your party colleague. This point was designed by your left-wing friends. I wouldn't talk much about opposition, okay? But okay, you've reached out to them. Our point that we proposed at this meeting didn't pass, but I'm not complaining. Well, just to be precise. It is the majority's right, we have the right as well as you to propose a point and most will either accept it or not accept it. But if we want to go back to what we're having today's debate and who led her to those corners where we almost got lost a while ago, then that was the Minister of Finance. So calmly, Mr President of the ČSSD Parliamentary Club through the Vice-President, sit down tonight, read the screen record from 9:00 p.m., and you will find out who the shootout was - and I agree with you that it may have been partially useless - launched. It was triggered by your coalition colleague. So deal with it in the coalition and don't complain that the opposition is defending itself when someone is making a senseless attack on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-001-087.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I still want to ask - I have here, with the factual remark submitted by Mr Kováčik, whether it is up to date. It's not up to date. In that case, I'm erasing you. And before we give the floor to the duly logged in, I want to ask if anyone else is still logged in with a factual remark in the discussion or with a priority right. It's not like that. In that case, I have here duly signed up for the debate by Mr Laudát, Mr Zavadil and Mr Opálka. I want to ask if these applications are still valid. Mr. Laudát is here. [[Member Laudat approaches the microphone.]] I just want to say that it's 10.59, and from 11 o'clock, we have fixed points that we voted for each other. For understandable reasons - I apologise to you, Mr Member - I interrupt this point and we will have to return to it at the next meeting because we have voted in due course for two points. After we return to the point, you will be able to discuss further. [[11.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we voted in the morning, we have a fixed point for 11 o'clock.
