ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-003-137.u1	137. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on improving compliance with tax regulations on an international scale and taking into account the laws of the United States of America on information and their notification generally known as Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, signed in Prague on 4 August 2014 /German press 311/ - second reading I ask that the Government Minister of the Environment, Minister Brabec, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-003-137.u2	Beautiful morning. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement presented responds to the adoption of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the so-called FATCA. The agreement is an alternative to the external effect of the US FATCA Act and its primary purpose is to mitigate its effects on financial institutions in the Czech Republic. Based on the agreement, the tax administration of the Czech Republic and the United States of America will automatically exchange data on financial accounts held by their financial institutions to residents of the other Contracting Party each year. The information on reported accounts will be reported to the Czech Financial Administration once a year and it will then automatically transmit it to the US Tax Administration. In short, I would like to recall the main benefits of this agreement. The agreement will ensure a uniform solution for financial institutions throughout the Czech Republic, which will reduce their administrative costs. Thanks to the agreement, the Czech Financial Administration will obtain data on Czech tax residents led by financial institutions in the United States of America. It was possible to negotiate other unnotified products compared to the US model contract and it is still open to negotiate other non-notified institutions or products in case of changes in Czech sector legislation. The first transmission of information should take place in September next year. The so-called law is also in the legislative process to implement the agreement. lex FATCA, which primarily provides for the obligation and authorisation of financial institutions to collect and notify financial management information on client accounts. Currently, the Czech Republic is included by the United States of America in the list of States that signed the agreement, and due to this fact, a reduction of 30% is not applied to Czech financial institutions until 31 December this year. The stay of the Czech Republic on this list is subject to timely ratification of the agreement. If the agreement is not ratified in time, there are the following risks: 30 percent of the amount will be withheld for any payment from the source in the United States of America and only the remaining 70 percent will be transferred to the Czech financial institution. The direct impact is then at least one billion crowns a year. Furthermore, the Czech Republic would issue a strong political signal that it no longer has an interest in being part of a group of states that intend to fight tax evasion. Similar agreements are made with the United States of America by other states around the world. Last but not least, the costs of individual Czech financial institutions would increase significantly due to the unfulfilled expectations of the agreement and would be viewed as problematic within multinational financial groups. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of these arguments, I ask you to give your consent to the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-003-137.u3	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mr Rais, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as Parliamentary Press 311/1. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-003-137.u4	Thank you. Hello. I would like to present the resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 13th meeting of 12 November 2014, when the Foreign Committee recommends first of all to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on improving compliance with tax regulations on an international scale and taking into account the laws of the United States of America on information and their notification generally known as Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, signed in Prague on 4 August 2014. [[11.40 hours]] Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-003-137.u5	Thank you, too. The Committee on Budgets, the resolution of which has been delivered as Parliament's press 311/2, has taken the initiative to discuss this proposal. I now ask that the rapporteur of this committee, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-003-137.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this press has, as has already been said, been taking the initiative of the Committee on Budgets and also recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to this agreement. And I recommend for myself that we vote on the resolution of the foreign committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-003-137.u7	Thank you. I am now opening up a debate in which I have Mr Leo Luzar registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-003-137.u8	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this international treaty is very much needed. It is very necessary for one reason that it is fighting tax evasion. Unfortunately, it is fighting the tax evasion of American citizens. Not Czech citizens, but American citizens. The United States of America has prepared a law that affects their citizens before they hide their money abroad. From this point of view, I fully understand and support. That there is an amendment to the fact that those who do not give these data will be punished, those financial institutions throughout the world, because financial institutions are global, unfortunately we will have to say that, so I take it as a kind of coercive tool for so-called. Unworthy states, if we say so. Even in the preamble to this Treaty, it is said that we are worthy of the state and have very good relations with the United States, and therefore that we should be included in this among the better states and should not apply it. So be it, it's there. What bothers me is the imbalance of this treaty. We will provide data to the United States on all activities of their citizens within the financial sector of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, US financial institutions will not provide these data on Czech citizens. It is quite clear in this Treaty that they will only provide data for tax residents receiving payments from the United States, i.e. They've got some income in there. They will receive these data, but also not as the value of the funds deposited in the account, but only the interest that was credited to the account. [[Noise in the hall.]] This also does not concern the deposit of legal entities, i.e. about the legal person who will have a deposit account established in the USA, the Czech Financial Administration will not receive this data. So this treaty is strongly unbalanced against the Czech Republic. That's what I want to point out. Two. The treaty states that the United States unilaterally undertakes to promote tax legislation so that these contracts are more balanced. And here I dare appeal to the Ministry of Finance, which should probably be a strategic partner of these treaties, to quickly prepare a similar proposal for a treaty that would regulate an unbalanced relationship in this treaty and which the United States, as it undertakes in the preamble, would adopt into its system of law, i.e. to balance relations between financial institutions and citizens of the Czech Republic and the United States of America. If that is not done, of course we are missing important information in the fight against money and tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-003-137.u9	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. It's not like that. We will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. If I sum it up: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify this Treaty. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 164, to which 141 were registered, for 80. [[From the board against 8.]] I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. The next item is
