ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u1	51. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union (the House Press 170/ - first reading) I beg the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš and Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek to deliver the opening words. Please let the gentlemen agree on the order. So first, please the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. So let me say the title for the first time exactly as it should be, and this is the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, a treaty that is more simply called a fiscal treaty, a fiscal agreement or a fiscal compact. I'll call it a fiscal agreement. This is therefore the title of the document that the House should start discussing. You may have already registered that the Czech Government dealt with it on 24 March, suggesting that the Czech Republic should accede to this fiscal agreement, with the fact that the vast majority of the provisions resulting from it would apply only at the time of the adoption of the common European currency. And you've probably heard a whole series of arguments. I wouldn't want to repeat in a stereotypical way what you may already know, but I would still like to mention some of the things that seem important to me, and maybe they're not quite clear from the debate. For starters, I may recall that the entire fiscal agreement was adopted by the European Union precisely because it was necessary to respond to the economic and financial crisis that led to the debt of some European countries, whether the reasons were different, and, of course, it threatened the credibility of the European Union, of the euro area states, and it was actually quite a serious dramatic situation for the European Union. The fiscal pact was not the only answer - I stress - the answer was actually in time, there were many responses, and it is far from possible to regard the fiscal pact as the only instrument for which the European Union responded to the crisis. However, the agreement was quite wide. The Pact signed and was signed by 25 countries. I remind you that the only countries left aside were the Czech Republic and Great Britain. That means we're going back to that as an agreement which, for reasons that may not be there to go back to them. In fact, the Czech Republic refused to join this pact. [[14.50 hours]] I think I will say that this was not a good and happy decision, especially because I dare say that the adoption of a fiscal pact was one of the instruments that really helped Europe and the European Union and the euro area stabilise. If we are reading texts today that say that the EU is no longer facing a dramatic situation like it was before, if we are no longer talking about the collapse of the common European currency, then let me say that the fiscal pact is one of those instruments that is responsible for the fact that negative developments have been achieved and that the European Union has more or less stabilised. One important thing, I think, is that fiscal has really played an important role in managing the situation. That is why I think it is one of the reasons why I see the decision of the Czech Republic not to join as a mistake. Because it turned out to be more or less the right decision. And, of course, we have not given a good sign within Europe if we have thus remained a party to a project that has proved to be effective. It should be stressed that the fiscal pact did not fall from the sky. When you take the instruments it contains, we already know the instruments in the European Union. When you take the Maastricht criteria, which was just as a tool to guarantee certain behaviour of countries, I leave aside that it was not fully respected and that we even experienced that the key eurozone countries did not respect it, and that, of course, was a mistake. However, the Maastricht criteria contained similar mechanisms. Or a much fresher six-pack, i.e. In fact, the package of measures, which was adopted just as a response to the crisis, already had constraints and brakes, limits on the management of Union Member States' funds. In fact, the fiscal pact summarises these attempts by the EU, which have been made by then, to create certain rules, certain criteria for the treatment of public money in individual states, and to face the situation that individual EU countries find themselves in debt difficulties, which will then become actually a problem for all alliance states. So I stress that the fiscal agreement is the result of a certain process, and it is a summary of certain mechanisms and the creation of a certain definitive form of something that 25 countries have signed up to. In the case of the Czech Republic, what is also important about the fact that it did not sign up for a project that actually stabilized the euro area significantly, a country that had previously declared itself a part of the euro area and wanted to become a part of the euro area. In the case of Great Britain, as you know, the situation is different. Great Britain never claimed to want to be part of the euro area. Its position against Europe is different. But here we have witnessed, unfortunately, that the Czech Republic, which made it clear that it wanted to link its fate with the euro area, and even de facto declared it clearly in the 2004 Treaty, did not participate in such a country, or said that it would not participate in the process that triggered the fiscal agreement. Of course, by not agreeing to this, as you all probably know, we have lost a certain opportunity to attend eurozone summits, competitiveness summits, changes in the overall arrangement of the euro area and the basic rules of the euro area. We have gotten rid of the possibility of participating in a process that, as you know, is currently one of the most important things that is happening in Europe. You are well aware that precisely because of the economic and financial crisis, these issues have become absolutely crucial in the debates, in the meetings in the European Councils. The questions of the banking union, the financial stabilisation of the euro area have actually become key issues that have actually been on the board and on the table during the negotiations of the Member States. In my view, the mistake that we have made is that, for these key talks that decide on the future form of the euro area, the whole European Union, we have actually said that we will not be there for these talks. Here's an important argument for which I say it was wrong and it needs to be fixed. I believe that if we want and if we are seriously interested in the future form of the European Union, we must look at what is happening in the euro area and we should be present immediately. This shouldn't just be without us. And I am simply calling for the adoption and registration of the fiscal pact to make it clear to Europe that we want to participate in what will happen tomorrow with the euro area. We are interested, and we realize that this is crucial to us. That, I think, from a foreign policy point of view, is extremely important for us to make this clear. Otherwise, I think that the position of the Czech Republic is not very clear. But I think, not only is it not understandable, but it doesn't fit the logic of the matter. When you marry the Czech Republic, and I do not mean its economy, I would almost say our whole life, so you all know how we are connected with our surroundings, our neighbours, the European Union and the euro area, of course, in a fundamental way. In such a situation, not having an interest in participating in what is happening at the heart of today seems like a mistake. And we may have different opinions, we may differ in our view of the banking union, we may differ in some partial positions, but I find it unreasonable not to be involved, not to be involved, and let's say not to sell what we think is today, or not to enforce what we think today is important to the Czech Republic in these debates. Signing up for a fiscal pact is also symbolically important to us, showing that we are simply interested in it and that we understand what it means to us. In fact, I think it should allow us to return to the eurozone summits, whose importance is, I think, crucial to us. That's the foreign policy thing. I think there are some pretty good arguments as to why to adopt a fiscal pact in the Czech Republic today, because if we look at the current development of the Czech Republic in the economic field, someone might say that the Czech Republic is not one of the most indebted countries in the European Union, and it is certainly true. And I don't think that today's a priori debt is all we have to deal with, because we all suspect that this country also has a huge problem with performance, economic performance, and is facing economic stagnation. And here is not the only solution to the issue of debt. On the other hand, I think why the fiscal pact is important from an economic point of view - that it is because when we look at the developments of recent years, I see a rather frightening tendency. And I believe that the question of the structural deficit, which is one of the key things that actually opens up the fiscal pact - because I will just point out that one of the major fiscal pact measures is that the rule of balanced or surplus public budgets, which is considered to be fulfilled if the structural deficit does not exceed 0,5 per cent of GDP, should apply to us, under certain conditions, 1 per cent of GDP. [[15.00 hours]] My friends, I will just say, for the record, that the structural deficit means a deficit that is adjusted from cyclical influences and from extraordinary financial operations. This means that it is a deficit that is free of the fluctuations that occur due to the fact that we are in a certain phase of the economic cycle, and the Czech economy and the Czech Ministry of Finance, as far as I know, is working with the structural deficit as a term normally, so it is something that I think we can do, however difficult in theory it is a debate, how exactly the structural deficit counts, and there are various calculations. So I think that basically we in the Czech Republic can work with a structural deficit, so I think that is something to which we can apply. When we look at the evolution of the debt in the Czech Republic, it seems to me that it is quite a warning fact that when we compare the situation of the Czech economy from 2006, 2007 to 2012, we will find that during those few years the debt of the Czech Republic has risen from some 28.5 percent of the public debt up to 46 percent. So at this time, I repeat, since those years 2006-2007, public debt has increased from 28.5 to 46 percent. And someone can say that this is, of course, a number that does not calculate the course of the economic crisis, but as you know, we have a structural deficit that actually clears the deficit from the cyclic one. And I'll tell you the figures of the structural deficits we achieved in those years. The structural deficit, i.e. adjusted again from cyclical effects, was 1.8 % in 2007. In 2008, the structural deficit was 3.4 % and in 2009 the structural deficit was 4.8 %. I repeat, it is adjusted from cyclical influences, which means that this shows that the economy was completely out of control at the time, because no matter what caused the cycle, the deficit increased dramatically. It is simply an example of the fact that the economic governance of the country has not really mastered the situation. And now imagine that something like that would happen again. We cannot rule out the return of the economic crisis. I shouldn't even say that, but unfortunately, you all suspect that this is something that can't be ruled out. And imagine that this situation would happen again. Here it has occurred, I repeat, in six seven years there has been an increase in public debt from 28.5 to 46 percent. Now imagine another crisis, as poorly handled as it was in this crisis, and the deficit, the long-term public debt, would grow in a similar way. We would have gotten even over the 60% that was among the Maastricht rules. So I'm just telling you that this is something that I'm saying to you as an argument why a fiscal pact makes sense, because when dealing with a crisis like this has been demonstrated in the last six or seven years, we'd be in a much more difficult situation. We just can't afford to use the same budget as it was in the past. That is why I think it is useful to talk about the fiscal pact in the Czech Republic as well, although we are not the most indebted countries, as I said. It is very useful for us to follow a similar criterion in the future. I'm telling you this as one of the examples of why I think it's a subject that hasn't gone out. It is not that the fiscal pact is no longer a topic in Europe. It's still a topic, it's something that worked, because I think we can prove that the fiscal pact helped stabilize the situation. I once said it wasn't the only instrument. I consider it very important that this instrument has also been supplemented in Europe, for example. A pact for growth and employment. This means that the stabilisation of the economy is not only a policy of some debt brakes, but also an active policy of growth and employment. I say, it is only one of the instruments, but I think it has a role to play, and I would even venture to say that he has a growth role, because by the time the Czech Republic adopts the fiscal pact, it shows investors that the country intends to evolve stable, predictable, and therefore the investments that will come here can expect it to be a predictable environment that will not show any dramatic fluctuations. So I would like to say that the fiscal pact has a pro-growth role in this way, indirectly, because it creates a favourable environment for potential investments from abroad. And I think we agree that if we want to start the economy, I think we need foreign investment and investment in the domestic area. These are known methods. And I even think it means keeping up consumption, because I think it's been underestimating itself over the past few years. So even the fiscal pact is involved in creating an environment that is favourable to the economic startup. In this way, I think that this is not only a passive braking tool in this sense, but it is actually something that creates conditions for economic growth. In my view, these are the reasons why it is worth talking about the fiscal pact in this House, and why I think we should correct the situation that arose when we looked like a country that doesn't seem to care much about the fate of the eurozone, it doesn't care much about the solution that was created in Europe and which, I think, as I have already tried to show here, has proved more or less useful. I believe that the fiscal pact has proved meaningful, and I think it is good that we go back to that table where the future of the euro area is being discussed. At the same time, you know that we propose that we accept this without adopting all the articles. You know that the government has made it clear that it does not see any reason to commit to the implementation of Articles 3 and 4, but there will probably be a debate here. I would just like to say so much that I am convinced that we are acting here in the same way as other countries that I could name, which have done a similar thing, that although they have signed up to the fiscal pact, they are not bound by the specific provisions that should apply to us only after we enter the euro area. And I think that's a good reason. I think we need to prepare for the whole thing. The Czech economy needs some time and structurally to prepare for entry into the euro area, and this should include some space that we will have at the start of the economy. That's why I think, and this government has made it clear that it wants to respect certain basic criteria for debt treatment. No one should be afraid that in this country, someone would behave prodigiously, because I think it doesn't allow us to do something, I would say, national mentality. So, of course, we are ready to act as economic operators, but we are still able to keep some room for some time to stimulate the economy, I think it is reasonable, other countries that are not members of the euro area at the moment, and there is no reason to commit ourselves to those Articles 3 and 4, which would mean that we would also take on all the consequences and consequences. So that is why I think that this is a reasonable proposal, too, and it is consistent again with how our partners, who are in a situation similar to ours in the European Union, are applying to the euro area and are not yet directly members of it. That's my opening word, I hope you're interested in me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u3	I thank the Foreign Minister, of course I did. I will ask the Minister of Finance for an opinion from the Minister of Finance's point of view. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u4	Mr President, colleagues, I think Minister Zaorálek has actually said something, he has had an exhausting speech, so I will not comment much. Interestingly, on 1 January 2013, the states found that it was necessary to maintain a balanced economy. I think every businessman and every company in the world knows that, because if it doesn't manage evenly, it's gonna go bankrupt. We used to learn that state risk is 1000%, it changes over time. The accession to the fiscal pact for us, I would say, is more a matter of some kind of signal about changing the European policy of our coalition government. It is, I do not want to say a completely formal matter, but we are actually in the position of states, the same position as Sweden, Hungary, Lithuania and Poland. [[15.10 hours]] So we are proposing - because I do not understand why the previous government has not agreed to this, why in the past we have supported the interests of the UK and not of the majority of the European Union - to proceed to this pact without, of course, committing to paragraphs 3 and 4, which concern us in case we enter the euro area. Personally, I think the euro is not a topic for the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic does not have budgetary assumptions for this, it is de facto unable to meet the criteria, and the euro is becoming more of a geopolitical issue than a pragmatic one today, because if we were to join the euro area, it reminds me a little bit of the situation before joining the European Union, when the Member States wanted us to have different technological conveniences as touchless batteries and various investments in technologies that we found themselves not having. Similarly, this is probably the case with the entry into the euro area, which I personally think is not about our government. If we were to enter, that would immediately mean 50 billion for our budget. expenditure and 310 billion. Guaranteed. We are lucky that Czech banks are doing very well, they are full of money, full of cash flow. We issued Czech bonds again today, under better conditions, so our credit is excellent, investors trust us. From this point of view, it is rather a gesture, a possibility to take part in the negotiations of states that have also signed a fiscal pact and are not in the euro area. I think it is a matter that brings us closer to being part of Europe. Of course, we can talk about the structural deficit and why we have the debt we have today. And because we have good banks, we are well funded, and debt service is relatively low compared to other countries. So much for me, and I suppose I can still respond in the course of the discussion if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u5	Thank you, Minister of Finance. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Karel Rais, to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u6	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I think, in essence, that we have all heard an almost exhaustive justification for this government proposal coming to the House. With what I had planned, I would basically repeat myself, so there's no point in you hearing it again. I recommend only that we adopt this proposal and discuss it in the committees. I mean, foreign and budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Please sit at the newsstand. I am opening a general debate in which the chairman of the TOP 09 and the Mayor Miroslav Kalousek signed up first. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, before I present the position of TOP 09 MEP, a small factual question to the rapporteur. He said the Committee of Budget and Foreign Affairs. Didn't you mean the Committee for the European Union, Professor? No, sorry. In such a case, I would also like to recommend the Committee for the European Union, because in my opinion, this concerns, in particular, the Union issues. So many little entrées that weren't part of my performance. Now allow the position of TOP 09. Ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 has, since the negation and approval of fiscal compact, wished the Czech Republic to accede to fiscal compact. I admit that even though we were part of a government that decided not to come forward, perhaps it would not be considered by colleagues as an act of disloyalty, after all, it was said in public many times, we were not happy that the government did not come forward, because we wanted this to happen, for reasons... When the President lets me Zavadil them with Mr. Jandák, then -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u9	I dare to interrupt you, Mr. Chairman. I shall ask in the Chamber, given the seriousness of the matter under discussion, for peace. Thank you, everyone. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u10	... for two reasons, from which we both understand the same principle. This is really one reason for this is the image we are seeing within the European Union's partners, where in my opinion we did not have too many rational arguments, so that together with Great Britain, which, of course, is in a completely different position than the Czech Republic, we did not approach this fiscal compact, and the TOP 09 has always wanted, wished and wished to be in the mainstream of Europe. So that is a reason that is very serious for us and we accentate it on every occasion, even on this occasion. The other reason for us is no less serious. This is the reason why we could call it budgetary responsibility, because fiscal compact is basically nothing more than an agreement on budgetary responsibility that the countries of the European Union joined at a time when it became clear more than it was healthy that the Maastricht criteria might not have been so badly established, but it was very misinterpreted, because in the lay and professional public, one of the two basic fiscal Maastricht criteria each will say that it is a criterion to have a public budget deficit of less than 3%. And that's a very bad and false interpretation. The correct interpretation is to have a long-term deficit below 3%, and therefore long-term and sustainable means that I will not get through that 3% even in the event of an adverse economic cycle. This means that the structural deficit, net of the economic effects that the Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke very rightly of, should be the main indicator. The structural deficit as a truly fair indicator of government's budgetary responsibility, since it is net of economic cycles and extraordinary effects, shows the true willingness of the government to keep as little as possible the balance between revenue and expenditure as possible by its own political decision. It is therefore clear of everything that the government can make excuses for in quotation marks, whether in a positive or negative sense, according to the fact that we were perhaps in a monetary bubble or, on the contrary, we found ourselves in a recession in the context of a global crisis or one-time accounts for church restitution. All of this will clear the deficit and remain an indicator of the true budgetary responsibility of the government. This concerns Title III of the Fiscal Treaty, where it is not by chance, precisely because the Maastricht criterion 3% has been misinterpreted by the European Commission itself in the long run, the signatories to the Treaty have approached the indicator not of the overall deficit, but of the structural deficit as a much more accurate and honest indicator of the budgetary responsibility of governments. [[15.20 hours]] The second key head of the Treaty, which is the Treaty on Budgetary Responsibility, is the debt brake, the commitment that, if the debt goes unstoppably up to 60 per cent or is over 60 per cent, political representation by its own constitutional law obliges them to behave in some way. We had here the proposal submitted from the workshop of Members, not so much the TOP 09 as from the TOP 09 politicians, ODS and ČSSD. Even in the days of Nečasův' government, the Chamber of Deputies decided not to deal with this treaty. We are still waiting for the government to submit its proposal. If so, it will be good, because that's the head of IV. Honestly, these are the two key pillars of the treaty - Title III and Title IV. Then there is Title V, which gives the signatories some rights to participate in the negotiations, and the rest are declarations. This means, without Titles III and IV, the treaty may give some significance in terms of formal application for the European current, which is why I understand that it matters so much to the Foreign Minister, but in terms of the country's commitments that it will behave budgetaryly, without Titles III and IV, the treaty does not make any sense at all. I would even find a parallel here that without Title III and Title IV to apply to fiscal compact, it is probably as hypocritical as when Communist Czechoslovakia signed up to an international Convention on Human Rights, so it applied to some global current, but it did not intend to respect human rights. It is simply hypocrisy in which the TOP 09 Members cannot and will not participate. If an exception is applied - and according to Article 14 of this Treaty, the Government has the full right to this exemption, I do not deny it to the Government - if the exception is applied, then we are very sorry, but then the Government cannot count on the votes of the TOP 09 Members in ratification. We want a fiscal treaty, we always wanted it, but we really want it with all its implications, i.e. not only internationally political, but also with the impact on the budgetary responsibility that political representation must feel. So we want her, including Title III and Title IV. There's a slightly paradoxical situation here. The nonNečasův government for a purely political stance - I do not criticize it, but I did not agree with it - rejected the fiscal treaty for the purely political position of the ODS, but consistently respected it. These are the figures of the Ministry of Finance and the structural deficit between 2010 and 2013, when the average rate of fiscal effort - fiscal effort - the real willingness of the government to save - i.e. the average rate of fiscal effort 1.4 per cent - I will also show you - 1.4 per cent per year, the government of Petr Nečas reduced the structural deficit. [[shows the graph]] [[shows the graph towards the government]] I stress that these are data from the Ministry of Finance, data from the convergence programme approved by the Government and sent to the European Commission within the framework of the European Semester. So, while Nečasův' government did not want to accept the treaty, it followed it consistently. The government of Bohuslav Sobotka has signed up for this contract, and I am very pleased to do so, but it is consistently going in the opposite direction. And if I am to take seriously - and I must take seriously - the figure from the convergence programme of the Ministry of Finance, which the government approved and sent to Brussels within the framework of the European semester, for 2015, the government is planning a deterioration of the structural deficit not only in 2013 but also in this year's. For your information, one percent is roughly 40 billion, which means if the government plans to make the deficit worse by half a percentage point in 2015, compared to this year's deficit, it plans to increase the deficit by at least 20 billion. The koruna, and that's not over yet. This is not a situation that we would be willing to accept. This is not a situation that we would be willing to support under our own political responsibility by adding our votes to the ratification of the fiscal treaty, which is not meant to be serious because it simply goes against it, albeit a legitimate exception. I agree that this is a legitimate exception. We have dealt very seriously with this because this is one of the absolutely key issues not only of the TOP 09 programme, but I believe that the future of the Czech Republic as well. On the basis of the resolution of the MP's club and the resolution of the highest political bodies of the TOP 09 with the agreement of the Mayors and the independent movement, I will now allow the Government of the Czech Republic, with all seriousness, to interpret an offer which is meant sincerely, without any ulterior intention, because the matter is too serious to have the intention of having a proxy or a side. If the government wishes our votes in the ratification of the fiscal treaty, then we can only attach them in that situation... When Mr. Okamura talks, I'll continue... [[Mr Okamura is speaking to Mrs Berdych, who is sitting in her desk opposite the speaker.]] Thank you. If the government wishes our votes to ratify the fiscal treaty, then the TOP 09 Members will only attach them in the situation that between the first reading, i.e. between today and the second reading, when it is ratified, the Government shall, in accordance with Article 14 of the Treaty, make a notification to the relevant institutions of the European Union that it intends to cease to apply the exemption from Titles 3 and 4 to them at the relevant date, i.e. earlier. This Article 14 states that the exemption applies until it is repealed, unless the country has announced the intention that it wants the contract to apply fully to it at an earlier date. If a government makes such a statement between first and second reading against the relevant institutions of the European Union, it can count not only on all the votes of Members of the TOP 09 but also reliably count on all the votes of Members of the TOP 09 when approving each draft state budget during the Government's term of office, which will correspond to such a fully applied fiscal treaty. Even though the budgetary priorities in such a draft budget - budgetary priorities are political priorities - will most likely not correspond to the political priorities of the TOP 09, because there will probably be more room for social benefits, less room for some of our priorities. It will simply be the political priorities of the government, not the political priorities of the TOP 09. However, if the budget corresponds to a fully valid fiscal agreement in its basic parameters, the budget will be supported by all our Members. We care about the ratification of the fiscal treaty and budgetary responsibility to the extent that we are going further in our offer, and we realise that, at the time of the culminating talks on the limits of the various chapters for the financial year 2015, the government may not be a technical problem, but the political problem may be to sign up for the full text of the fiscal agreement in 2015. That is what we are willing to understand, and that is why we are telling the government in advance that there is room for us to agree that if the government applies to the full text of fiscal compact on a decisive date 1. 1. 2016, it will still be worth it and we will be happy to keep our commitment. [[15.30 hours]] A commitment that - I am not really saying in the wind right now, no further conditions are attached to it - a commitment that we are willing to make not only publicly in the context of the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations, but a commitment that we are willing to confirm to the Government in writing by some quasi-contractual relationship or memorandum, and we are ready to start negotiations with the Government on the text of this written commitment. In this case, I think the sympathy of the opposition party has not been a precedent in the history of modern parliamentaryism since 2013. The government can rely on our support in such serious matters as the approval of the state budget and the ratification of the fiscal treaty, on one condition: that it will actually abide by the treaty to which it claims, without any exceptions, and that it will fulfill the declarations that many government members often like to repeat, that they will behave austerityly and that they will save, which logically means that they will not increase the structural deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Majesty, the decision is yours. We are ready to negotiate, and we are ready to comply with the commitment that I have just made. However, if you insist that you do not fully comply with the treaty to which you apply and do not want to save money, we will be very sorry, but the ratification of the fiscal agreement and the approval of the draft state budgets will have to do without the votes of the TOP 09 Members. I believe in the successful interaction that I am offering at this moment on behalf of the TOP 09. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u11	Thank you to President Kalousek. Another with priority rights - President of the Civic Democratic Party's Civic Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, colleagues, our club considers this material to be the most important material yet to come to the Chamber of Deputies during this parliamentary term. I do not think that we should do this only formally and after some quick discussion. I say in advance that we will not make any such offer as the TOP 09 has made. On the contrary, we will vote against ratification of this Treaty and I will try to explain why. Firstly, this Treaty transfers additional powers from the national state level to Brussels. We do not think that this is a good thing and that it brings any benefit to the citizens of the Czech Republic. Secondly, even in this case, such a popular salami method is used, which comes to us from European institutions, where so-called casual, small steps are taken to finally learn that we have already taken these steps and that there is no other way than to adopt the euro. I think it is clear at this point that the adoption of the euro is not economically advantageous for the Czech Republic. This situation may change, but it will certainly not be in this parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies. And now for the contents of the contract, a few notes. First of all, it doesn't bring anything new. What it says has already been mentioned in the previous documents. For the experts involved, in the so-called six-sack and two-pack - it just happens again. If you look at the very text of the contract, the first eight pages are the declaration. If I wanted to lighten things up a little bit, something... Signatories say: something has gone wrong, comrades, we realize it, with the fancy words, so we will do something about it and try to fulfill what we have committed ourselves to a long time ago. As the main argument, many government politicians use the fact that we're going back into the mainstream, we're going to join the core, we're not going to be troublemakers, we're not going to stand out, we're not going to bother the others. It is possible that some in Europe, whether in Brussels or in other Member States, evaluate it this way. I took the job, and I copied the part from the file that the Czech government is proposing to ratify. So my dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, just 889 words are enough to get us back to the mainstream, to the mainstream, to the core, to all the decisive actions, without any gaps, it's 5 066 characters. How simple, how European! And since we really consider it very important, I will allow you to read the paragraphs that the Czech Government proposes to approve and ratify, that is, without Title III and Title IV, I will not read them here, they also form the basis for what those Member States are supposed to follow. And then you can compare yourself, you, or those who happen to see it, or they just happen to read it in that log, how little it takes to be spanked on our shoulders, "you're back in the mainstream," and how little specific information and specific commitments there is... Prime Minister says we're in trouble. So I don't know what he means, maybe I'd ask him not to bother me when I'm talking, that we really consider it an essential and very important point. So what the government of the Czech Republic recommends us to ratify: Title I - Purpose and scope, Article 1: The Contracting Parties, as Member States of the European Union, hereby undertake to strengthen the economic pillar of economic and monetary union by adopting this set of rules for tightening budgetary discipline through the budgetary pact, as well as to strengthen the coordination of their economic policies and improve the management of the euro area, thereby supporting the achievement of the European Union's objectives in the form of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. 2. This Treaty shall apply in full to countries - to Contracting Parties whose currency is the euro. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 14 - we will get to that - applies to the other parties. That's the whole head of I. Title II - Compliance with and relationship with Union law: Contracting Parties shall apply and interpret this Treaty in accordance with the Treaties on which the European Union is founded, in particular Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) thereof. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Treaty shall apply to the extent compatible with the Treaties on which the European Union is founded and with European Union law. It does not interfere with the Union's competence to act in the area of economic union. - That's all of Title II. Judge for yourself what is new for the Contracting Parties and what is new for the Czech Republic. And we already have about a quarter of the text that the government recommends to ratify. Titles III and IV, which actually correspond to what is in Title I, that is to say, tightening budgetary discipline, these two heads, particularly that of Title III, are recommended by the government not to ratify. He has every right, I don't want to repeat myself and repeat the words my previous speaker said. So we get to Title V - Eurozone Administration, Art. 12. So we skipped ten articles. 1. The Heads of State or Government of the Contracting Parties, their currency being the euro, meet informally with the President of the European Commission at the eurozone summits - nothing new has happened before. The President of the European Central Bank shall be invited to attend these meetings. The Chairperson of the Summits shall be appointed by the Heads of State or Government of the Contracting Parties whose currency is the euro - that is to say, this does not concern us - by a simple majority when the European Council elects its President for the same term of office. 2. The eurozone summits - in turn not our concern - are held as required and at least twice a year in order to discuss issues related to the specific responsibilities of the parties whose currency is the euro share in the single currency, other issues relating to euro area governance and the rules applicable thereto, and strategic guidelines for the implementation of economic policies and for strengthening convergence in the euro area. - This article applies only to euro area countries. [[15.40 hours]] 3. The Heads of State or Government of the Contracting Parties other than those whose currency is the euro - this is the first article potentially relating to the Czech Republic - which ratified this Treaty, participate in the negotiations of euro area summits on competitiveness for the Contracting Parties, changes in the overall arrangement of the euro area and the basic rules that will apply to them in the future, as well as, as appropriate, and at least once a year, the negotiations on specific issues relating to the implementation of this Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union. This is the article that the Minister of Foreign Affairs also referred to, that it is important that we are invited there and that we can be present at these negotiations. Yes, it is stated in this contract. Then I have a specific question if one of the ministers answers me how many of these meetings, which, of course, the top representatives of the Czech Republic have not yet been able to attend, have been held since 1 January 2013 on the basis of Article 12 (1). 3 held and whether we know what the agenda was, or what to do with the agenda and the outputs of this meeting was pushed through countries that are signatories and whose currency is not the euro at the same time. 4. - Article 12. It's more like organizational. The President shall ensure the preparation and continuity of summit meetings in close cooperation with the President of the European Commission. The Eurozone summits and follow-up activities shall be organised by the Eurogroup and may be invited by its chairman to attend meetings for this purpose. 5. Article 12. The President of the European Parliament may be invited to speak at the Eurozone Summit. Following each euro area summit, its President shall submit a report to the European Parliament. However, this is only a meeting of the euro area, not a meeting of euro area members with other signatories to this Treaty. 6. The President of the euro area summits regularly and in detail informs the Contracting Parties other than those whose currency is the euro - which we are - and the other Member States of the European Union - which we are also, which means that it does not matter whether or not we are signatories to this Treaty, we will receive information about the preparations and results of each euro area summit. My second specific question is whether and how many times this obligation has been fulfilled, who received the eurozone meeting report in the Czech Republic, and whether the results and reports could be made available to Members of the Chamber of Deputies or at least members of the Committee on Budgets. That's the whole article 12. That's the one the Foreign Minister says is the real reason why he recommends a reticent version of the contract to ratify. In one single article, they say that once a year they can invite us to the eurozone negotiations. Then only Article 13, when, in accordance with Title II of Protocol 1 on the role of national parliaments - which we, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate in both the Czech Republic and the European Union - annexed to the treaties on which the European Union is founded, the European Parliament and the national parliaments of the Contracting Parties will jointly define the organisation and support of the conference of representatives of the relevant committees of the European Parliament and of the representatives of the relevant committees. - Which I do not want to underestimate in any way, but it is such a declaratory paragraph that says that representatives will meet somewhere, now I do not know whether the committee responsible is a committee on European affairs, I am surprised that the rapporteur does not propose it to this committee, we will certainly propose it or whether it is a committee on foreign or budgetary matters. It seems most logical to me from the point of view of the procedure to be a committee on European affairs, but that is probably a matter of discussion and opinion. And that's it. Then only Title VI - General and Final Resolutions, Article 14, where the contractual documents are deposited, and Article 15, that the Member States of the European Union whose currency is not the euro, which is the case, may also do so. Maybe we wouldn't need such a long speech by the Secretary of State, maybe he could only talk about what he's proposing to ratify, because the gros of his performance was about Title III. I don't want to argue with that. About whether it's important or not. When the ODS came up with the idea of balanced state budgets years ago, it was ridiculous on the Czech political scene. Fortunately today it is the opinion of European mainstream and mainstream and core, so the ridicule is gone and suddenly we think it's a good thing. I'm not criticizing it. I think it is a good thing that other political parties or other states have come to this. Another specific question I would like to ask. I don't know if we have the results in the Czech Republic yet. The failure of the European Union is that it accepts and accepts and adopts strategies, treaties, challenges, and then fails to meet them. According to this Treaty, all countries whose debt was more than 60 percent of GDP, which I believe was 12 euro area members at 1 January 2013, were obliged to reduce this debt by one twentieth in 2013, by 5 percent. My particular question is that we know how serious the signatories take it, which of the 12 Member States, which had a public debt of more than 60 per cent of GDP, fulfilled this obligation under this Treaty, and if it has not fulfilled it, whether it has already been dealt with by the relevant institutions of the European Union, the failure, because there is also the possibility of sanctioning those who have not. If it is as usual that we approve something, then we do not do it, then we will do six summits, preferably from evening to morning, to announce at the sixth summit that they actually have a new solution, which will be the same as before, and therefore the old commitments do not apply and new commitments arise, that is precisely the thing that reduces the trust of citizens not only of the Czech Republic, but of all the Member States of the European Union in its functioning and in its proper development. It is important, in our view, that we really pave the way for the adoption of the euro by this treaty. And in the debate on the adoption of the euro, we must talk about what commitments we will take on at that point, who we will pay our debts for, and how much. According to the current situation this year, it would be 300 billion. Czech crowns, but we do not know how high the amount will be at the moment when it will be possible to really decide on joining the euro area. The government is realistic in saying that it will not be in this parliamentary term, we agree with that, so I only mentioned the number that is valid this year. There's no point in speculating whether the number will be higher or lower at the moment it's relevant. For my colleagues from the right, who so proudly claim fiscal compact and who already in the previous government, and I must say, were in favour, we as a stronger government party blocked the agreement, was not possible, I think you know it in the coalition that sometimes one partner will not push something, because others do not want it, I would remind them of the fate of the Slovak right, whose government has fallen. Slovakia's right was only broken up so that Slovakia could pay debts for others. All European officials have tapped the PM's shoulders and said, "Excellent, how European, how great." You can continue to watch the fate of the Slovak right. I think that there have been elections since then, and you can see how well they turned out and how their European colleagues have helped them in the campaign, who have been knocking on their shoulders. Of course, they needed to be contributed to the bailout fund by those who did not participate in the debt. Then they lost the election, came the left, who made a similar offer to today's TOP 09, which said to the then government "if you approve it, we will support you" if memory doesn't deceive me. And what happened to those who accepted the offer and those who gave it. They turned out much, much better. I want to go back to the contents of Title III. That's something that deserves support, but unfortunately our government doesn't want it. We discussed this within the Convergence Programme. So where is the responsibility, Mr. Foreign Minister? You first defended head III passionately and I agree that it is the most important, and then you so chastely at the end said three sentences - "but we do not want to ratify it, because it would not be advantageous for us"" And before that, you were talking passionately about the way that Title III brings budgetary responsibility, the automatic brakes and all that. It's similar to any other question. Then why aren't you doing it? Why are you proposing to ratify only 889 words and the most important part of it? [[unintelligible]] I'll give you a promise for us that if you come up with a financial constitution and a debt brake, we'll support it. We will not support the Treaty because we really think it is not advantageous for the Czech Republic and it is not advantageous in the current state of the European Union to transfer additional and other powers to Brussels. [[15.50 hours]] The only answer to those Euro-Federalists or enthusiastic euro recipients is for every crisis situation, for every problem a single recipe: more integration, more centralization, more power to Brussels. I think the results clearly show that it doesn't work that way. This is not only the opinion of the inhabitants of the new Member States, but it is the opinion of the inhabitants of the old Member States. It is much easier to accept fiscal compacts with those beautiful opening words: remembering, remembering, remembering the 2011 Prime Minister's decisions, it is much easier than having a fundamental debate on nonsensical agricultural subsidies within Europe, because, of course, we are realistic, it will not pass through France. Almost every debate is useless in this because this is how national interests defend themselves. We're not able to deal with it. I think Czech farmers are right when they say in the long run that they have not had the same conditions since 2004 as their colleagues - but also their competitors - in the old Member States. But we don't. We are dealing with: remember, remember, recall another commitment, and we are really interested in how those signatories carry out their duties under the treaty. We will vote against ratification of this Treaty when the vote comes at second reading. We will try to convince the majority, or at least 81 Members, in the Chamber of Deputies, that the Czech Republic does not ratify this treaty. At the same time, if the government is serious about the fact that Title III is inspiring to it, that it is good, and comes up with its own proposal for a financial constitution, debt brakes, no matter what we call it, we don't have to argue which name is better and which is worse, we are prepared to debate really correctly about the parameters of such brakes. About parameters of some regulatory mechanisms and so on. We want to warn from this place, while it is still time, in 2014 that we do not approach this treaty. It's not an argument that most people want it. It sounded here, it was said here in a speech by the Secretary of State that we defended the interests of Great Britain. That's just not true! We defended the interests of the Czech Republic and the UK Government had the same view in this area. You know very well that on many of the issues that are being dealt with at the European Council, different voting coalitions are being formed. That it is not always the same that those countries are not assembled on each question in the same voting blocks. It's perfectly natural, it's perfectly logical. In matters that we agree to be of Czech national interest, the government will have our support. In this matter, ratification of fiscal compact does not have our support and will not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u13	I thank the President of the ODS. Another with priority rights - President of the Parliamentary Club of the Dawn of Direct Democracy Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear government, colleagues, let me also comment on the Dawn movement on the fiscal pact that we are discussing here. Providing a balanced budget dictated to us from Brussels is a pretext for us to lose, in our view, the fundamental pillar of our sovereign sovereignty, and that is the right to manage our own money. It looks very vague at first glance, but on the other hand, we have to say that we do not know the exact methodology by which the parameters of the fiscal pact in Europe will be calculated. We are simply transferring powers to Brussels for the Czech Republic absolutely essential and it is unacceptable for us that this is happening without a public debate and without a referendum. Unfortunately, today's government is finishing what paradoxically started so-called. Right-wing government of colleagues Kalousek and Nečas. Here it turns out that it doesn't really matter who the citizens elected. The Czech Government is simply panting in front of Brussels in this situation. However, this dolling lacks elementary logic. If the fiscal pact is linked to the adoption of the euro, why are we already rushing into it? Why, if, in our view, this is a political not an economic project that is not yet certain whether it will last at all? If he exists in a few years. We are talking here and debating that we would join the euro around 2018, around 2020, but we cannot even know today what the situation, what the economic situation in the European Union will be at that time, and especially in the euro area, if the euro area still has as many countries as it has today. If we want to be budgetaryly responsible, why aren't we? Why do we need some supervision from Brussels, why do we need someone to tell us that we're doing it right or that we're doing it wrong? If this is a problem, I recommend to the government and the Prime Minister to consider their government involvement. If they need this supervision from the European Union and are unable to assess whether they can do it and whether they are able to move the Czech Republic on economically. Why are we bringing Brussels into this? Why are we sending a key budgetary function to Brussels, which is to take control of our country's finances? I will stop at this situation and ask what the penalizations from Brussels will be. How will they judge us if we don't keep things and criteria, parameters that we don't even know about today, what they're going to be like? What's the penalty going to be? What will Brusel say? Are we going to have taxes like that or taxes like that? Are we gonna make that kind of money? It's just not clear today. How do we know that this decision will not turn against us in the coming years? I don't hear any strong explanations from the supporters of this project. Just a mantra about budget responsibilities. I say that we do not need Brusel for budgetary responsibility. That is simply enough for us not to approve irresponsible budgets here. This is not only our right as Members, it is even our duty to work directly. So let's clean up our own business first and start doing our job properly! During the Dawn of Direct Democracy movement, I am very clear here that we will not support the fiscal compact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u15	Thank you to Chairman Fial. I do not register any application with priority rights, which is why we get to the proper applications. Mr. Jiří Dolejš is the first to be logged in. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The opinions of almost every political faction have come to an end here, so that it is complete. I'm not saying the best at the end, but I'm sure there should be a comprehensive overview. Opinion of the club KSČM. Here, during the presentation of the material, there was something about a proven European solution. Ratification took place in 2012, so we have data for 2013 and we partially have information on what the year 2014 looks like. So to what extent European solutions are proven, it is difficult to draw conclusions. There are too few empirical data for this, although I support the question raised here by colleague Stanjura that it would be worth asking that question. This has already been made when approving the agenda of this meeting by my colleague, my colleague Číp, a request that has not been heard, so that we do not rush this material to this meeting. [[Was it?]] To focus more on the subject at different levels. Just so we don't get it over with as quickly as possible. This is not only a debate between us but also a debate towards the public, and this is far from just because, in just over a week or so, European elections and this topic are highly related to European elections. And I feel it kind of, I don't want to push it, but I kind of feel it in the act of individual factions. Too bad! So we will have to do this now, or in committees and in the finals in the Chamber of Deputies, and I add, of course, also in the Senate, because the ratification process is also taking place in the second chamber. [[16.00 hours]] If I were to assign individual representatives of the political scene in the Czech Republic to the European riverbed, I became impressed, and hopefully it will not be refuted to me that especially once strong and government ODS is seen in British conservatives, especially. Every political family has its problems in that the Czech Republic is not Britain, that we cannot afford the famous British splendid isolation, when there is strong City and Britain in London, even though it no longer has an empire that does not fit the sun, it has its specifics and this parallel limps. After all, it can be seen that the British Conservative family, too, is somewhat exotic in terms of the European Parliament. And then, let us say, there is a family of European people and a family of countries that are very friendly to the current form of Europe. There is probably a TOP 09 when it says that we should volunteer, with all the hair and hair, to what the Member States of the European Zone had to adopt in 2012 is 18, and on the example of countries such as Denmark, which did not accept the euro, but is very close to the euro, and it is a rich country, but also Bulgaria, which is just the opposite. So I do not know what kind of filial ties the TOP 09 has with these countries and what leads them to these conclusions. I just think it is more of a belief that this European setting is only half a step towards adopting the Czech debt brake on the implementation, as has recently been discussed here. And we know that the questionnaires over the Czech debt brake are even greater than the European one, and therefore I consider this to be a step rather political and not factually thought-out. And then we have a Solomonian solution, which means that in terms of psychological and symbolic, we will jump into the European current, albeit differentiated, and we will swim without immediately impacting on us in an unspecified term, because don't be angry, but the deadlines for the adoption of the euro and la 2020 are not exactly a specific programme! This is something like the symbolic sign-in to Europe or the hanging of the flag from Prague Castle. I don't see anything specific about it. True, they have made such important countries as Sweden, but unfortunately the Czech Republic is quite far from Swedish conditions as well. Polák are a very specific issue from the new EU Member States, whether in terms of size, economic structures, but also efforts to balance Eastern influences with the West. I am not sure if this symbolic diplomacy is the right nutty, and if it is sufficient reason for us to take a step that - although we would postpone some things, some provisions would be postponed by, say, six years, even if we do not yet know - so whether we would not take an irreversible step. And that is why we do not reject at this stage, but we cannot even say yes to this document unless some of the key questions that have already been raised here in 2012 were answered at the time of the reign of Petr Nečas, which I reminded in these walls and after the elections, i.e. quite recently. Among the main questions are whether we are aware that this European solution is still inconclusive, that it may happen, that, in the context of the exit from the European debt crisis, perhaps even with some problems in the east of Europe - I do not want to launch a debate on Ukraine, we have enjoyed it enough in the last few hours - but in all these contexts, a number of things will have to change and that the solution, which represents the current fiscal compact ratified in 2012, will have to be redesigned or supplemented, and whether it would not be better if it was not our duty to discuss these things and to contribute with its voice, its head of the active Czech mandate in European structures, to the very sensible transformation, the creation of mechanisms. At the same time, I say that we, as a party that is a pro-integration party but critical of contemporary European integration, do not want less Europe, as I feel that I have heard a little bit from colleagues from Dawn, who, in turn, if I were to assign them somewhere, maybe they would be close to the Austrian svobodný. I don't mean to be unfair, but maybe even Front National in France and other subjects. That's not our policy. No way! But if I want a better Europe, then I must say clearly in what and involve the responsible representatives of executives and legislatures. So, questions. The first and the basic question is the question that points to the key criterion, and that is the structural deficit. Those of you who had already enjoyed the debate on the topic of the convergence programme of the Czech Republic, the last one, undoubtedly perceived the gunfight between former Minister Kalousek and current Minister Babiš on this subject, and unfortunately, even on the board of the budget committee, I did not feel that we had fully understood the trickiness of this parameter, either the practical burden of the commitment or a step towards the impotence of this treaty, like the impotent Stability Pact. I'll remind you - and I hope not to suspect that I'm giving you a world lecture here, but I don't think a little econometrics will kill, after all, the Foreign Minister has already said it, which means that the structural deficit is the one that is cleared of some influences. The problem is, and those who communicate in the community of economists, experts and not only Czech but also foreign, will confirm to me that there is no consensus on a clear methodology that econometricians do not know universal, quality enough, valid enough. Unfortunately, that's true. I will leave aside really purely modeled things such as the Cobb-Douglas production function, which are used to calculate the production gap, which is the difference between a real product and a potential product, which is important for cleaning the cyclical effects in terms of economic performance, i.e. GDP. Even there, of course, it is not perfect, and experts point out that these calculations, model calculations, otherwise they cannot, have their pitfalls, and for you more understandable and practical applications always matter, apart from modeling, also the type of growth. Of course, it can be somewhat different in every country. There is another type of growth when it is driven by investment, capital, whether domestic or foreign, and another type of growth is when it is driven by foreign demand. This is different depending on the country's structure and size, etc. [[16.10 hours]] What is very important is that the cyclic cleansing also includes the influence of the cycle, i.e. the development of gross domestic product, on income, individual tax items. There, the elasticity of individual taxes is examined for GDP development. We do not have anything better than the past time series, i.e. the empiricalism of the past period, but here is a certain uniform methodology, which, of course, differs from tax practices and from the setting of the tax environment and from the type of economy, and therefore there can be numerous problems and also arise here. The regression functions that are used in Brussels to identify those items, of course, average something that might look completely different in our country. Perhaps the most politically sensitive is the element of the purification of structural deficit data in terms of so-called. Discreditation measure. In other words, it is not just extraordinary financial operations, but also certain reform actions. You know, it is said that some systems are not created in Eastern Europe, that we are expected to take certain reform steps, but every reform step brings a certain shock, one-off, extraordinary, and the impact of this shock on the structural deficit methodology is extremely important. And if we do not take this into account, of course, the criterion of one percent of the structural deficit referred to in Article 3, which Mr Kalousek is calling for to accept as a voluntary burden, can prove to be a very tight corridor that can cause us great problems. Perhaps not so methodically thoroughly, but rather in terms of economic considerations and political considerations, Europe's trade unions were very afraid of adopting a European fiscal compact as a solution to the European crisis before 2012, because when you look at the 2009 global crisis and look at how Europe and especially the European zone were facing the crisis, you can see that Europe was not able to deal with it. That it continues to be a territory where there is a lower rate of growth, where structural reforms are not underway, where we are unable to reach a handicap when it comes to the practical application of innovation, because we have innovative potential, smart heads, so why it doesn't work. Of course, all of this is in Europe, and it seems to be the concern that, apart from the strangling collar on public finances, the lack of the pro-growth policy, that it is very serious and that it may have effects on employment, of course, and that this is the bread of the trade unionists, and that it is actually aimed at disrupting social reconciliation, social cohesion and convergence between the individual Member States of the European Union. This is an important principle of European integration. And if it is disrupted, the European Union will not strengthen itself, but, on the contrary, relax and get into great tension. So I think that the concerns of officials like the European Confederation of Mrs Bernardette Ségol and, after all, our trade union representatives are in place. The truth is that the European Confederation is in a situation where the treaty has already been ratified in most Member States, and our Czech trade unionists are satisfied with the Solomonian position that this needs to be completed in the future. In fact, they've taken the position that social democracy has most likely presented here. I understand this back door, but it's not the answer to the question I'm asking myself and which other citizens are asking themselves. For example, here I can quote negative, even if for completely opposite reasons than the ODS has said, the negative opinion of the citizens' initiative The Labour and Solidarity Alliance, which fears that we will reduce budgetary capacity by this step, deepen our structural weakness of comparison with other countries, and thus lead to social problems. If you don't know, there are various initiatives. One of the signatories and spokespersons of this initiative is former Minister of Foreign Affairs, a colleague of Minister Zaorálek, Jan Kavan, or from the expert background of Ms Docent Švihlíková. I understand, of course, the concerns that the conservative right or, hopefully, forgive me, a little populist right with colleagues from Dawn, and that is sovereignty. But we are not passing on to Brusel the powers of budgeting. We are giving Brusel the authority to check that we are following the budget corridor. Of course, there are problems with constitutionality. That is why, after all, this treaty is also intended to ratify the constitutional majority under Title III, and because the government, of course, has its 108, it lacks some voices in the constitutional majority, and therefore I also understand the political criticism of this subject. But that shouldn't be the subject of a license, it should be a material consideration. That is to say, to cross the border of primary European law, because this is an intergovernmental agreement, but it is breaking into primary law, and this breaking into primary European law will also have to be codified in European treaties. And of course it has an impact on us, too, because sanctions would come from a European institution, from a European court, and therefore we are handing this part of our competence, our sovereignty up somewhere. It wouldn't be a problem for itself if the rules were set rationally and if there weren't for the concerns I was talking about earlier. So if I sum it up. I understand that the government has discussed this and that the disciplined government majority is probably ready to vote in favour of this document. But since it does not have the necessary votes, it would be good not only to hear from the TOP 09, but to reflect not only for us, but for citizens, for the professional public, the problems that I am talking about, because without their good answer, we really will not be able to add a vote for this Treaty, although, as I say, we are a party to pro-European, we do not want less Europe, but Europe that would suffocate us is not really our goal. One comment. I'm going back to the structural deficits. I don't know what term the current government should refer to in order to comply with the TOP 09 condition. I assume that before 2020, but I also assume that this should not apply to the present, because, according to the convergence programme, we are above one percent. If I take it for the last 15 years, we've only been under that one percent in the last 15 years once and for this year, if I remember correctly, I think it's 1.8 or 1.3 and in the next year, 2015, 1.8. Now I don't know if I switched it. That's how it is. So basically, we're accepting something that we're going to get caught up in. Is that what Mr. Kalousek wants? If it doesn't, of course it's a later term, but it's still a carte blanche, because it won't come to us right away, but we won't go back to it. It will be ratified, it will be painted. Whatever happens to the euro, I am a cautious realist in this regard, that is, I think that the European currency is not ending, but unfortunately it also does not have its problems far from being resolved, but it is far from being resolved. And as far as fiscal effort is concerned, I said that in 15 years, the structural deficit did not get into those desired values, but not just during the crisis. I could understand that there. There will be a crisis and not only the discrediting measures and the influence of the cycle, but also the remediation of other problems leads to the fact that it cannot be followed and that it is beautiful, when at least the crisis is leaving, so it begins to decrease. But we were in those values even in the pre-crisis period, even in the period 2007/2008, when Mr Kalousek was also the Minister of Finance. I think that this condition, if it were to be seriously meant, would have to be formulated far differently. I'm afraid that kind of wording would trap us, and it's not really the way we'd be able to agree on. So, dear government, which I think you want to discuss this document, consider whether you want to go into the trap and discuss it in the direction there, or answer the public, trade unionists, but also the left opposition to the questions I've formulated here. [[16.20 hours]] Time is short, I can see that there will be very little public and other professional discussions, but think about it. I don't want to, and I don't need to hear the answer now. I know it's a professional thing too. But please, really, it is not just a symbolic and psychological leap into the European river. If we want to swim in the European river, then whether we can swim or at least wear a life vest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u17	I thank Mr Dolejš. With Mrs Havlová's point of view. Please, Madame, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, I have taken this point of fact because I wanted the government to explain to us the contradiction that my previous speaker has already spoken about, and that is in two essential materials. The government approved the convergence programme, which says that in the coming years we will have a structural budget deficit of 1.8, respectively. 1.7 %, and we are here today to approve an international treaty that says we are to have a structural deficit of only 1 per cent. I consider it a lie. Something else is supposed to be approved today, and that's what you really want to do. We can't act like that. I therefore hand over to the Prime Minister the figure of Pinocchi, which is a symbol of lying. He's the best person to describe your behavior. In our case, we are to approve the agreement to respect the structural balance of 1%, but you know that this will not be the case anymore. I'd be happy to take Pinocchi back if you could convince us of your arguments. I will discuss other arguments in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u19	I thank the Member and the Prime Minister has now asked for the floor with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have gradually listened with interest to the views of all the parliamentary parties, as has been said in the previous debate, and allow me to make a few comments on the seriousness of the material and document and the draft treaty that we are discussing and which also relates to the context in which this proposal is now the subject of the debate here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Stanjura's remark, which said that perhaps as the Czech Republic, somebody in Europe is patting us on the shoulders. I would like to assure the honourable Member, but also other members of this Chamber of Deputies, that unfortunately, we are not on our shoulders in Europe today. Last year, we were the absolute worst of all the Member States of the European Union when it comes to drawing European funds. There's really no reason to pat us on the shoulders for that. The least citizens of the Czech Republic who, due to the fact that our country is unable to draw money from EU funds, lost about 10 billion in total last year. Crowns. Nobody's slapping us on the shoulders in Europe, on the contrary, at any moment we are struggling with the risk that even the remaining funds that we can still spend from European funds will be stopped, simply because during the past seven years, such things as for example, have not been achieved. effective state service law or environmental impact assessment law, which would comply with the rules that also apply to the Czech Republic within the European Union. No one is slapping us too hard because our country has fallen dramatically every year over the last few years in the competitiveness of countries whose competitiveness is judged. I think we should not be subject to a sense of Czech exceptionality. And it is true that a fiscal pact will exist even if the Czech Republic does not join it. The question is what this will mean for the Czech Republic. We had quite a lot of credit after joining the EU. The Czech Republic was seen as an economically stable state. We have been seen as having, in principle, one of the greatest chances and hopes of the new EU Member States since 2004, and I fear that we have obviously wasted the political capital that we have had in Europe. Especially in the last seven years. We've gradually gotten into isolation. At this point, we are certainly not in the position of a state that has some great positive promotion towards those who work with us in the European Union. I have heard a number of comments here, which were on the verge of what is going on in Europe, where Europe is going, concerns about whether it is actually going in the wrong direction, if it doesn't collapse, it will fall apart, we have also heard that here. I want to assure you, virtually. draw attention to the fact that the euro area has not fallen apart. Not even during the severe fiscal crisis that she has been going through in recent years. The number of EU Member States paying the euro has not decreased, although there has been very serious speculation that some countries will have to leave the euro area. It didn't happen. On the contrary, the number of countries paying the euro is increasing. So in Europe, when we look beyond our borders at what is happening in the real world, in the real world in Europe, there is an increase in the number of countries that are gradually joining in paying the common currency. In the last period, they are mainly smaller states in the Baltics. Even none of the countries that had problems in the context of the debt crisis went bankrupt. Greece's situation is gradually stabilizing, and Greece will be able to repay more of its debt for the first time. Germany, as the strongest economy in the coming years, will manage even with a surplus budget, and this has borne much of the weight of the funds that had to be spent to stabilise the entire euro area. But the budgetary outlook shows that Germany, which is our biggest trading partner, and that is the real world again, will have a surplus budget. I need not remind you that Germany is a member or a participant in a fiscal pact. Why did the fiscal pact come about? I think it's important to get back to it, and no one here has said that. After all, the fiscal pact arose when it became clear that, after the introduction of the common currency in a large group of EU Member States, the crisis showed that it was not possible to have a common currency and not coordinate budgetary policy. Just when you have one currency in one territorial unit and you have a few budgets that evolve completely independently of each other, sooner or later there will be a problem. And the problem has arisen in the euro area. So the fiscal pact was not created because of the Czech Republic or because of the UK or because of Poland or Hungary. The fiscal pact was created to ensure that the countries that are already paying the euro better and more coordinate their budgetary policy and that budgetary policy does not go away, so that we do not have the north of the European Union, which is going in a particular direction towards fiscal consolidation, and that there are no southern states that have long managed with a much higher budget deficit than most countries in the northern part of the European Union. So the objective was to stabilise the eurozone, which threatened to break, in the budgetary area. That's why it's a fiscal pact. And if you look at the full name, as the Foreign Minister here has read it, it's about stability, coordination, economic and monetary union. Economic and monetary union are countries that pay the euro. It is therefore logical that all the provisions of this pact fully affect all the Member States paying the euro and all the Member States paying the euro are also parties to this Treaty. On the contrary, it is clear that it is not absolutely necessary to apply all the provisions of this Treaty to non-euro countries. For countries that do not pay the euro, which is also the case for the Czech Republic, but also Poland, Sweden or Hungary, which have already joined the fiscal pact, unlike us - I repeat, Poland, Sweden, Hungary, these are the countries that joined the fiscal pact, but did not draw on each other initially the effectiveness of Art. 3 and 4 and will apply to them when they start paying the euro in Poland, Hungary or Sweden. [[16.30 hours]] And this is the regime that the Czech government is proposing. It's not that what we're proposing is an exception. What we are proposing is a standard approach towards countries that do not yet pay the euro. This means something that is expected to be done in this way by our country, simply because we are not yet part of the euro area, and therefore it is not absolutely necessary that we coordinate budgetary policy this strictly as if we were paying with the euro. That's the genesis of the fiscal pact. Our country, when we look at where our goods end, where our services end, what is the basis of the success of our exports, what actually creates the majority of employment here in the Czech Republic, it is necessary to realize that we are not really Great Britain. We are a country that has 80 percent of its exports to the euro area, 60 percent to Germany, 80 percent to countries that pay the euro. When you look at the investments that are made in our country, they are investments from Germany, they are investments from Austria, from France, quasi from Holland, but this is mainly because there are many companies in Holland whose capital actually comes from elsewhere, but they are these countries. This means that the vast majority of our exports go to euro area countries and the vast majority of foreign direct investment that takes the form of specific production plants in our country or specific companies that provide services comes from the euro area. We have a very strong economic link with the euro area. This is the real world that is outside the windows of this Chamber of Deputies. Firms that trade the euro area, employers whose capital has come from the euro area and who employ people here in the Czech Republic. That is why I say, let us not look at the UK, its progress, because Great Britain has a completely different economic and political position and has completely different economic and political interests and national interests than the national interests of the Czech Republic. And I say that the national interest of the Czech Republic is one that will enable the long-term stability, prosperity and competitiveness of the Czech Republic. We, geographically, economically and politically, belong to the core of Europe. This is not about carrying out a maneuver that is unnatural, that we carry out a maneuver that is economically risky. This isn't about risk. This is about economic, social and political logic. It is also about the cultural logic of a country that has always belonged - except for a period that was unnaturally deviant - to always belong to Central and Western Europe, economically. I want to remind you that before the planned economy came in 1948, the numbers of our exports were very similar. In 1947-1948, the vast majority of exports went to countries that today pay the euro. So much hasn't changed here, only the 40 years of the planned economy have tried to navigate the structure, export and other things in a different, unnatural way, and it has unfortunately also been negatively economically manifest. So what we are proposing, and what the government is pursuing by proposing that we proceed to a fiscal pact, is a matter that has economic, political and cultural logic and is an effort to strengthen the prosperity and competitiveness of the Czech Republic. And there's no way we should forget that. When we look at our neighbors - and I know that very often, and many of us also use it in different debates, we say: let's not do experiments in our country, let's look at the countries where it works, let's look at our neighbors how they solve the problems. So please, let's look at our neighbors. Germany, Austria pays with the euro. Slovakia, which was part of Czechoslovakia, pays the euro. Poland and Hungary are part of the fiscal pact in the format that our government proposes. So what we are proposing is not something that is eccentric in the region in which the Czech Republic is located. On the contrary, our current position, if we hadn't changed it, is an eccentric, isolated approach and an isolated procedure. Speaking of sovereignty - and I will then get to the question of reducing the deficit, which is actually cardinal in addition to where the Czech Republic belongs economically logically - yes, a fiscal pact, if we join it and if we gradually draw on the effects of all its articles, limits sovereignty formally in one important area, and that is freedom to indebt. But I ask if freedom to indebt is really unlimited today if the Czech Republic wants to implement it in an absolute way. And I don't think it is. Just yes, if we reject the fiscal pact, if we refuse to strengthen coordination in this area, we will not have to answer for how high deficits we have, but we will still have to pay those debts. And here it is not true that if we do not accept the fiscal pact or the euro, we have absolute freedom to indebt. There are simply financial markets that will say at some point: it is over, we will not lend you any more funds. So I'm asking what sovereignty we're defending here. What sovereignty are we really fighting for here? Sovereignty to be indebted? It's just illusionary. In fact, in today's world, no state, perhaps with the exception of the United States, has such a degree of sovereignty, and certainly not a small Czech Republic in the heart of Europe, one of the European Union's medium-sized states. So the sovereignty of being in debt is illusionary and fighting for it in connection with the fiscal pact is simply one big factual error. It has already been said - and, on the one hand, I naturally appreciate the TOP 09 offer to conduct negotiations on the conditions under which this political party could support the fiscal pact. There's nothing left for the government. As has been said repeatedly here, government parties do not have a constitutional majority, and frankly, the government is quite deliberately demanding that a constitutional majority be needed to approve this international treaty. I would consider it undignified for the government to interpret the conditions for its approval in order to make the fiscal pact easier to pass, so that only 101 votes are sufficient, because this is indeed a treaty that will seriously bind us and should be taken as a serious, sovereign and thoughtful step. Not as a church restitution by one vote. Such a vote would simply be of no value in the Chamber of Deputies. That is why the government has leaned towards the interpretation that this is a treaty that requires a constitutional majority, and so we openly come to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, and so we openly come to the Senate and ask for a constitutional majority. Government parties do not have it themselves, so we will deal with opposition parties. And I've heard that the KSČM wants to act, and I appreciate it. I hear the TOP 09 wants to act, and I appreciate it. We are prepared to discuss this matter, and I do not think that the discussion of the fiscal pact should accelerate in any way on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Let's just discuss, now's an open opportunity. It is important that the Treaty goes through the next reading, and let us please talk about how we can achieve such a degree of agreement so that this constitutional constitution can be achieved on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. But we are in a situation. This situation has not arisen on its own, we have not been here since yesterday, most of the political parties, at least represented in this Chamber of Deputies. The country has a certain history and that history has also been written by numbers of budget deficits and public debt numbers. And sometimes it resembles bad books, those numbers of public debt and budget deficits. Here were the steps that I discussed in the past with the then Minister of Finance, Miroslav Kalousek, which meant significant impacts on public budgets in our country. What happened especially in the tax revolution that has come since 2008. At that time, the government reduced the state's permanent income. The State's permanent revenues have been reduced by reducing some taxes. Even then, we had a controversy about the fact that we cannot afford it as a country. Yet this experiment in the tax field occurred. I just want to recall the abolition of tax progression, and I want to remind you of the reduction in corporate taxes in a way that was too generous. This was subsequently shown in the development of public budgets. [[16.40 hours]] What have these governments been up against for the past seven years? On the one hand, permanent tax revenues have decreased and governments have been building temporary savings against this. Temporary savings that have been unsustainable in the long run. One example of temporary savings: the fact that the payment for state insured persons has not been raised for years. So it is clear to everyone that it is not possible to have the payment for state insured persons frozen forever because health costs are rising. So it's run out of time when most of the company was able to tolerate this, and last year's insurance payments went up again. The second path of temporary savings that have been unsustainable in the long run: reducing public sector employees' salaries. Third example: reducing pension valorisation by two and a half million pensioners. Those were temporary cuts. I underline the word temporary. Yes, they were cuts, but their effectiveness was limited. Of course, at a time when society is no longer able to endure such temporary cuts, changes will be made. But we've already lost that tax revenue once. They've disappeared, and it's very difficult to go back to them and get them back. That is why there has been a large imbalance in public budgets, and the result is that even though the major crisis of 2008-2009 has subsided, the state budget deficits have never returned to pre-crisis levels. I want to remind you that in 2007 the state budget deficit was somewhere between 37 and 40 billion. Crowns. 2007 before the crisis. Now, a few years after the crisis, we're talking about preparing the state budget, where a deficit of 100 billion is still being proposed. Crowns. So we were no longer able to return to the low deficits that were here before, even as the economy did not grow as quickly after the crisis as it did before. Some things and impulses, including the impulse to join the European Union, have been exhausted in time. So we have a problem here, and it actually exists. This is not just a controversy between the right hand, the left, between the TOP 09, the government, social democracy. Really, we have a structural deficit of about 100 billion here. Crowns. And this government inherited it from previous governments. That's just reality, too. Mr Kalousek here suggested a little while ago: Yes, the TOP 09 will support the fiscal pact, but you must reduce the deficit according to the rules of the fiscal pact. And if you don't do it next year, at least in 2016. What would that mean? Let's talk about real numbers again. When we have a deficit of about 100 billion at the moment. The crown of the state budget, it would mean cutting it in half. In half, in principle, take measures during 2015 so that the deficit was not 100 billion in 2016, but was only 50 billion. A deficit reduction of 50 billion. CZK, this is actually the condition that the TOP 09 has openly built here to support the fiscal pact. And I'm asking how it can be done. And TOP 09 says, well, we'll support all the state budgets. And I say, that's not enough, because to reduce this deficit by 50 billion. Kroner, you can't just cut expenses. During the year such a reduction in expenditure is not practically possible. You also need to increase revenue. But the TOP 09 doesn't offer any more votes to raise revenue. It says "we will vote in favour of the fiscal pact and we will vote in favour of the state budgets," but it does not say how the state budget is to be drawn up. And I want to thank Mr. Kalousek so much for this offer, because she has no value. It doesn't really have any value. I am glad that Mr Kalousek and TOP 09 apply these harsh criteria to us. I am glad that Mr Kalousek has such great confidence in the new government that he feels that we can manage and accomplish everything he has failed in the seven years of right-wing governments. This hope and this trust is really great, but what the TOP 09 offers is not enough to deal with a structural deficit of 50 billion. CZK in one year, so that we meet the terms of the fiscal pact. So, yes, we are ready to act, but we also need to perceive the real budgetary problems that the current government has inherited and the deficit of 100 billion. CZK, which even those previous governments have not been able to reduce by the measures they have enforced in this Chamber of Deputies. I am pleased that the Czech Republic has also agreed to the fiscal pact. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that both representatives of trade unions and representatives of businessmen in tripartite have agreed to the Czech Republic's accession to a fiscal pact without Articles 3 and 4. This, too, ladies and gentlemen, is the message of the real world beyond the windows of this Chamber of Deputies. Entrepreneurs and trade unions believe that this will be a positive step for the Czech Republic. If you look at the complexity of the debate in tripartite, it is rarely possible to find a consensus between those representing employees and those defending the rights of entrepreneurs. But at this point, the match was found. This, I think, is also an important signal that the Chamber of Deputies should perceive. Ladies and gentlemen, in seven years our country has increased public debt from 27 per cent of gross domestic product to 47 per cent of gross domestic product. I will be very happy if the new government succeeds in such a budgetary policy that this trajectory of public debt growth will halt relative to GDP, or at least significantly slow down. We don't have much room left. You know the limit is 60 percent of GDP. If we cross it, it is not a question of fiscal pact, but it is a problem that we will also have in terms of the existing rules of the European Union, and it will prevent us from adopting the euro. It is therefore very important that we do not exceed the debt limit of 60 per cent as the Czech Republic. What can we do? Of course, to make a balanced budgetary policy that, on the one hand, will not unduly increase debt, but will not cut economic growth at the same time, because an increasing economy can bring additional tax revenues to help stabilise the deficit. Secondly, the fight against tax evasion. If we cannot agree to increase tax rates, at least some, I firmly believe that we will agree either in the government or in this House on further measures against tax fraud that can increase the revenues of public budgets. What, of course, can be done regardless of the fiscal pact, regardless of the fact that Article 3 and 4 will not apply, is to adopt a fiscal constitution or, if you wish, a debt brake. That, I think, is something that we could also agree on between the government and the opposition, because even the debt brake will require a constitutional majority. And if we could accept the debt brake, then we should also establish a fiscal board which, after all, results not only from the fiscal pact, but also from the existing existing contracts, which are also bound by the Czech Republic. So, regardless of whether or not the fiscal pact will be approved, I believe that here in the Chamber of Deputies we can do a lot of work to improve the Czech Republic's economy in the following period. And if we succeed, then I think there really will be no reason for us to refuse to join the fiscal pact. Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation, the government has no choice but to discuss the conditions under which the fiscal pact could be approved in the House. I would like to point out that this is a unique opportunity, because it is now in the Chamber of Deputies and there is also a constitutional majority in the Senate that is pro-European-oriented. Now is the chance for a fiscal pact, and I think we should not miss this period, because there will be Senate elections in the fall, there will be other elections that will change the composition of the Chamber of Deputies in three years at the latest. This means that these are all factors that will affect the ability to ratify the fiscal pact. Now we have a unique opportunity to make it to the end. And I would like to ask all Members who believe that the Czech Republic belongs to Europe to think very seriously about this issue and this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. The rapporteur first came forward. Then with priority rights, Mr. Foreign Minister Zaorálek. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u22	I wanted to respond to the previous speaker, a colleague from Dawn, because I see two tendencies here. Some Members say - this does not bring anything new, and then they will notice that it is really about raising awareness, about the possibility of obtaining information from the European Union, that this obviously leads to an increase when there is a discussion on competitiveness, about the debate on the European Union, so we will have information, and so as I basically think that we know that information is the basis of success, without information there is essentially no chance to manage even the state. [[16.50 hours]] Well, that's one extreme. On the other hand, the previous speaker spoke as if we were accepting a complete contract. The questions she was asking were all about the whole thing. This, of course, is relevant, to ask these questions, but in my opinion, it is only at a time when we will simply approach the treaty as a whole. Today, it is basically the part of the information, and when I read it exactly: the issues of increasing competitiveness, changing the overall arrangement of the euro area and the rules of the euro area. So far, we have been excluded from this as the Czech Republic, and through the government there will be access to this. And I think that, of course, is a step in the right direction. And the rest? I think the Prime Minister said quite well here, so there's no point in repeating it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u23	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now with priority right, Mr. Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u24	Thank you, so have a nice afternoon. So we saw that the Prime Minister got Pinocchi. He got Pinocchi for supposedly lying. I've always appealed here when I was still in charge of the House, to save up with those strong words, and to consider here a lot before we say that there's a lie, because the inflation here is very unpleasant, and the public doesn't see it very well. So I have the impression that anyone who says that even says it about the Prime Minister should really know what they're talking about. It is evident also from the debate that was going on here, even from what Mr Kalousek was actually accusing here - he was just blaming that this government is actually presenting it without wanting to follow the one percent... So, of course, no one here is lying, and what's being presented here is completely consistent in that sense. So I'm really appealing to... Pinocchio, it's kind of like Mr. Bárta, I think. That's the "Public Things" style. I'd like to give it back to the lady. Let her take it. And let everyone consider using similar methods of lashing, and it's actually an attack, and it doesn't do anything. So either we're debating the fiscal pact, we're talking seriously about what it is, and we're not just using strong terms when it's not justified and it's not factually correct and it's actually confusing to the public. So I'm begging for this to be a classy debate. And then - I'm not gonna tell anyone that he's lying. I can only say that something is not fair. And I'll tell you what's not fair in the debate. Mr Kalousek here stepped up and showed you a nice graph. In that graph, if you recall, he showed how the government, at a time when he was the Minister of Finance, was reducing the structural deficit - successfully. Of course, I would like to point out that this is nice, but at the same time we went into severe economic stagnation. So enjoying the numbers... Do you understand? The economy cannot be assessed on the basis of one selected factor. If you just go into a crisis and take one number to document how well you did, it's always a little inaccurate. So I say that the graph - although it is nice to show it, I am telling Mr Kalousek, but it is always a bit inaccurate, to put it mildly. 'Cause in fact, the economy was dropping pretty well at the time. And one thing is that you have reduced the structural deficit, but you, sir - I'm not telling you directly - but it has flowed from the graph that, after the new government has started, the structural deficit has started to rise compared to this successful trend in reducing the structural deficit - and this is only three months away, and we can already see that it tends to increase it. All right, ladies and gentlemen. I have taken the fiscal outlook of the Czech Republic, which was prepared by the Ministry of Finance Mr Kalousek from 2013, Mr Kalousek will probably not deny that it is a work from his workshop, and if we look at the forecast of the Czech Republic and the development of the structural deficit, I think we will find quite a remarkable thing. In fact, the then Minister of Finance in this forecast assumes that a different trend will follow the successful reduction in the structural balance after 2014; on the contrary, the structural balance will start to increase, but at a higher rate than the one he blamed for. Because if we have a negative 1.3 for 2014, he's got a negative 1.8 here. If we have minus 1.8 for 2015, then he has minus 2.1. In my opinion, Minister of Finance - then Kalousek - assumed that after the stagnation - deep - the economy would need space to do something about the economy. That's my speculation. I just think so. And in his prognosis, which he actually shielded at the time as Minister of Finance, it is assumed that, on the contrary, more expansion would have to follow the retreat and reduction, probably financial. So while he was counting on her at his place, he's denying us the right to her, and he's saying that we probably want to give away the money. I'm telling you, this feels like it's not fair. The diagrams presented here, I think they're confusing, and they're not really an overall expression of the economic state. And I believe that the TOP party or Mr Kalousek should at least give this government the room that he has guided himself in his own prognosis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u25	Thank you, Secretary of State. Next, two priority applications. First of all, President of the TOP 09 and starosta Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u26	Thank you for the floor. But I've formulated an offer for the TOP 09, I think, very helpful, and I'll admit, I'm a little concerned about the confrontational tone of the Foreign Minister. I don't see why we should argue. If you're saying the numbers are inaccurate, I don't think so, because they're the actual figures of the Treasury Department led by the first Vice-President of your government, I believe those numbers. I didn't use any numbers other than Treasury numbers. First of all. Secondly, I don't blame you at all, I completely acknowledge that you have the right and the mandate to do so. I simply showed how this development was going on and going on, and if we have a different view of it, that does not mean that the government does not have a legitimate mandate and right to exercise this fiscal policy. We're not discussing the convergence program right now. If I had the right to vote on the convergence programme, I would, of course, not raise my hand for such a convergence programme. But the convergence program is approved by the government, and the government approved it and sent it to Brussels, and I'm just interpreting the numbers that you approved, not me. We are now discussing a fiscal compact where you once again have the right to apply the exception. The question, however, is whether, with this exception, you will achieve ratification of the constitutional majority. That's all. I'm not saying here, the TOP 09 doesn't tell you like some of our other colleagues in a clear position: No, we don't approve. We say, yes, we'll be happy to ratify it, because we want it, and we want it, and we want it, and we want it, but we want it all, we don't want it with the exception. And we're even saying, we understand that this could be a problem for you in 2015, we've been willing to talk about it since 2016. This really cannot be a problem, because if we were reducing the structural deficit in the Nečasův Government at an average rate of fiscal effort of 1.4 % - this is again the figure from the Convergence Programme of the Ministry of Finance, I did not make that up, it is the assessed fiscal effort of 2010 to 2013 - so it is from 1.8, which is planned by the Convergence Programme for 2015, that is one percent in 2016, especially when the economy succeeds, you will get no problem. Or not, or you're determined to do another fiscal policy, and then you can't count on our votes. But that's not why we have to fight. We have offered you fair and square terms here, under which conditions you can count on our votes, and you, Minister, are basically accusing me of blaming you here. I don't blame you at all. I have told you the conditions under which you can count on our votes, and I think they are extremely helpful. And that the Foreign Minister, who needs those votes for the constitutional majority, should rather appreciate it and go sit at the negotiating table instead of stomping his foot madly here and saying it's different. So much for my opinion. [[17,00 hours]] If you quoted the prediction. Yes, that was indeed a prognosis. Because the forecast must take into account not only the economic but also the political situation. If the government, which was very hard to reduce the structural deficit, knew that the political situation - for 2014 and others - could be expected to be significantly left-wing, it naturally assumed with some degree of optimism that it would at least try to keep the overall deficit below 3%, i.e. We predicted 2.9, which means an increase in the structural deficit. The political situation, at least verbal statements, is not what we predicted. The other strongest government party says it wants to save money, and the Communist party has no influence on the fiscal policy of the government. In our view, this is a chance to bring the structural deficit parameter into line with Article three of the fiscal treaties. Or not. And if we don't, we won't vote for it. Your right is not to comply with this requirement, in which case it is our right not to vote in favour. We don't have to argue or blame each other for that. And if you say it's inaccurate, because you need to look at it in one piece. I didn't say "fiscalcompact." I am not responsible for this and neither is TOP 09 responsible for the fact that the basic parameter of budgetary responsibility in the deficit is a structural deficit. A structural deficit, and not a number of other indicators, which you might very much like to see there. But simply the fiscal compact on which the vast majority of the European Union countries agreed is simply a structural deficit and a debt brake. That means we need to talk about the structural deficit. Period. If you want to keep it, I would very much like it, you can count on our votes in the ratification of the fiscal compact and in the approval of all budgets. If you do not want to hold him, you have the right to this opinion and we do not claim that we are the bearers of the only truth, you will be right, but you will not have our votes. So, Minister, don't get upset and come sit down at the negotiating table if we don't find any common ground. We are constructive opposition, we have made an offer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u27	Thank you. That was the opinion of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. And now with priority rights, President Stanjura and Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u28	Thank you. I have been in the Chamber of Deputies for four years, and I have a rare opportunity to agree with Lubomír Zaorálk. So it didn't give me a chance not to come to the microphone and publicly admit it. The way he said one number about the economy doesn't say anything. I totally agree with that. I also think that the structural deficit has a relatively rubber definition, and I think that the decisive European countries will change it at a time when it suits them. And I don't think that's why we don't want to go to that fiscal compact and play, if there's a budget, a structural deficit, one whole zero, nine. [[It wasn't clear.]] But in that case, if the debate were correct about economies, we wouldn't be using one number either. Very often I hear - in the neighbouring country, in neighbors, GDP grew by 2.1 or 2.2, and in our country it declined. But that's just one number, too. We need to say all the numbers - the structural deficit, the deficit, how much GDP has increased, how high unemployment is, how many percent of families are at risk of poverty, etc. Then the debate really makes sense. Because I think in almost every economy, you'll find one parameter that's better than the other. And every time we pull out that one parameter and start banging on our heads, we can't get anywhere. Especially in the area of state expenditure, if I increase expenditure by 40 billion. to debt, but I'm going to make a growth of 1% of GDP. These are relatively simple numbers. I'm saying this in a bit of a simple and round way. But the debate, if it's worth it, for the banishment plus 1%, to borrow 40 billion. And in some way, either spend it or invest it, so you don't take my word for it. But when I put the parameters more side by side, I compare them all, or almost all, when I'm looking at numerical lines, trends, etc., it makes sense. And the trend just turned around. I'm half-cocked with the 2014 budget. I know you didn't make him. But you voted for him. So you can't say again: we had nothing to do with it. And remember that debate in December with the state budget, when from among the government coalitions, virtually. The future government coalition, since the government has not yet been, has spoken strong words about how much expenditure will eventually be cut off. And we said, "Well done, I'm sure we'll support you in that." And we're in the middle of May, we're slow in the middle of the financial year, and the numbers aren't coming out yet. So, we're looking forward to that happening. But the main reservation, and I want to repeat this - we do not need to manage wisely, Brusel. That's the main reservation. Let's talk about that. Do we need Brusel to do this? Do we need someone to check on us? To commit to it? Or do we need it for ourselves? I think we need it for ourselves and that we know what we really want. We may have other programs, and we certainly differ in how to meet those goals. But I'm sure we don't need Brusel for that. And the way Prime Minister Sobotka talked about patting in Brussels. Well, it wasn't me who took pictures of them and said in those briefs, "Well, we see a marked change in European politics." Very good, Prime Minister! You've already signed or signed a fiscal pact... That's what I'm talking about. I know it's quite humanly gratifying. Who has been to the European Council as a minister sometimes knows that for the first time they will tell you, Minister, for the second time they will tell you Mr Stanjur and for the third time they will tell you Zbyněk, but we are already friends, aren't we? Well, real friends aren't really in European politics. There everyone simply defends their national interests, and we should be clear about this and try to agree here in the Czech Parliament, which is a national interest, and not handing over more and more and more competences to Brussels, because then we will have no influence on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u29	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Government, I will make an apology that has been delivered to me. From 18.50 Mr Josef Nekl apologizes, from 17 o'clock for health reasons Mr Vojtěch Adam, then Mr Martin Novotný from 16 o'clock, from 19 o'clock Mr Uhlík, Mr Martin Komárek from 16.30 to 19 o'clock and Mr Pospíšil from 15.45 to the end of today's meeting, Martin Lang then apologizes from 19 o'clock for working reasons. Minister, Prime Minister, you are next in the general debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already rehearsed the structural deficit with Minister Kalousek on the budget committee. Well, I'd show him around again. Minister Kalousek planned a deficit of 120 billion for next year. and structural deficit minus 1.8. [[shows on paper]] We're planning a negative 1.3. So we're reducing. Minister Kalousek planned 2015 minus 2.1 and we plan minus 1.8. Minister Kalousek laughs. His offer is actually a mockery, because what does he tell us? He's actually telling us that after he and Nečasův' government cut all civil servants' salaries by 10%, they froze their pensions, there haven't been highways since 2010, so he's telling us today: Yeah, I'm voting for Section 3 and 4. [[17.10 hours]] And what does Section 3 and 4 tell us? Section 3 and 4 tells us that our deficit, our deficit, must be 40 billion, or a maximum of 60 billion. So he's actually saying if I took regional education, he's like, "Teachers, we're gonna take half your paycheck." That's exactly because 80 billion. are the salaries of teachers in regional education. Of course, it is demagogy to say what efforts the past government has made. Let's go back to 2009, when Minister Kalousek planned plus 4.5 percent of GDP - and wonder what happened to the world, he missed and was minus 5%, so he reported a deficit of 198 billion. I really do not understand this debate on the powers of Brussels. We don't commit to anything. I don't know if Mr. Stanjura or Mr. Fiala read the contract. We don't commit to anything. We do not want any supervision of the European Central Bank. Yes, and you're right, we should be alone, and I said it in the first performance that every businessman and every company in the normal world knows to plan at least zero, best to make a profit in order to invest. I do not understand why, on the one hand, some parliamentary parties apply to Europe, and on the other hand, such a treaty, which is more or less formal in nature, does not oblige us to do anything, yes, we have the right to meetings and meetings to take place, on the eve of ECOFIN, there are states that signed the fiscal pact and are not members of the euro area, and we have dinner, we now have it on 5 April, and there we are talking about the banking union, the FTT, the fiscal pact, the euro, how Lithuania is preparing for the euro, and so on. So by being expelled from Europe, nobody talked to us because our ministers didn't even go anywhere. I was in Berlin on Monday to see Minister Seibl and, at least, since you forgot, we got 333 billion out of Europe. CZK within the framework of the Structural Funds, and we are even the worst in the context of drawing and even the most corrupt. So I don't understand who read it and who says Brusel is going to dictate something to us. He won't dictate anything to us because it's a gesture. It's a formality, and it's incredible that we've been able to discuss it for so long. And if Mr Stanjura here was talking about farmers, that is really very interesting, because it was the ODS, Klaus was the biggest enemy of Czech farmers. Mr Nečas was the only one who went to Brussels and said that we had a problem with the budget for farmers. Kalousek repeated it. So you were the biggest enemies of agriculture. And where would our agriculture be if they didn't get the 30 billion?? Who would support this country if we're selfless anyway? I don't understand this debate at all. You've let this state decompose us, systemically since 2010, you haven't built highways, you're even voting against speeding up the buyout, so you're doing everything you can to actually continue to destroy this state. And the Slovak right hand example is very good. You're on the same path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Now with a factual remark from the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club, then with priority rights the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek and then another registration if the order does not change. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u32	As usual, we're the target of a series of insults, but I'm not gonna respond in the same sense. I'm glad the Vice Prime Minister said what I said. Gesture, formality, basically useless thing. But your Prime Minister and Secretary of State say it's crucial, very important. So what's the truth? Is it a gesture or a formality? And I agree with that. Or is it crucial, important, necessary for the further functioning of the Czech Republic within the European Union? He can't pay both. He can't say one to the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister to the other. He can, we heard it today. But what are we supposed to choose from? And if it's such a formality, such a gesture, why do we need a constitutional majority to do that? Do we really have a Constitution where formality, gestures and unnecessaryities are voted by a constitutional majority? We don't see it that way. We really see this as a way to the euro, a one-way street from which it will not be possible to return if it would be beneficial for the Czech Republic. And that's it. In assessing what the government wants to ratify, I exceptionally agree with the Minister of Finance. And a moment ago, Prime Minister Nečas praised that he was fighting for a farmer, and then he said, "and the ODS is doing everything against them." Only one or the other sentence can apply. I don't want to say what the Minister of Finance thinks. But they can't pay both of them together. It just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u33	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u34	Thank you. Don't be angry that I'm performing for the third time. I thought that everything was important in the position of the TOP 09, but I must say that I am now feeling ordinary human disappointment. He's not the first one today, but he's much more fundamental than what I regretted a moment ago. We really said a serious offer. If we were negative opposition - and I think I can easily remember the time when today's strongest government party was a really consistent negative opposition to everything, even to what it thought was more or less reasonable, it always found enough reason to oppose it in any case. If we were negative opposition, we would find some reason why we would oppose it, because why should we help you with the constitutional majority? We want to help you with the constitutional majority, which is why after a very detailed and serious discussion, although as a opposition party, we have said a clear offer that we will help you with the constitutional majority and that we will help you approve budgets for those and those assumptions. And I thought it would sound at least "okay, so here's a serious offer, let's talk about it." I would quite appreciate it if, after the speech of Minister Zaorálek and Minister Babiš, the Prime Minister, as Prime Minister, had said whether the government wanted to address this offer at all and whether he wanted to negotiate with us. If you don't, you don't have to, but we offer it very sincerely. And I say again, without ulterior intentions, as a constructive opposition proposal. Once again, because the Deputy Prime Minister obviously didn't hear me. I mean, the predictions for 2014 and 2015 were really predictions, because we assumed a political situation that was essentially not doubted, and no one thought that structural deficits would do anything other than increase. However, the result in 2013 in this parameter, we can talk about others, we can say that we had the lowest level of poverty within the European Union, but we are talking about fiscal compact, so we are talking about structural deficit, so this is how the structural deficit developed in this parameter. By an average effort of 1.4 % per year, I repeat the data from the material of Minister Babiš, which was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic. [[He's showing the document.]] The formula is just like that. The fiscal effort, that is, the government's effort to save, was 1.4 % per year, which is around 40 billion at 1%, accounts for about 55 billion. a year of fiscal difficulties. If I do not count 2014, if I calculate your assumption of 2014 and 2015, I reckon that your negative fiscal efforts will mean that you will not save a crown, but, on the contrary, you will have a greater deficit that your negative fiscal efforts will be 20 billion. per year. I'm just saying. Nothing else. I am even willing to understand this for 2015, just saying that if you want to have a fiscal agreement in 2016, so in dispute whether it is a formality, just a gesture, or it is a really important thing, we say: Yes, we do not want it as a formality, we do not want it as a gesture, we want it as a serious fundamental thing with all rights and commitments, i.e. with Titles III and IV. We will only vote in favour of such a contract. Is there anything incomprehensible or offensive about this? Or does that offend someone? Or do you feel like we're laughing at you? That's just a fair offer, partner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u35	Thank you. Now we get to properly logged in. Now, Mr. František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u36	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to perform today's performance in a confrontational spirit, but Mr Babiš raised me from the chair again. I'd ask him too much to -- maybe you'll get away with it in your paper, but stop lying here. You said here that we voted, or you voted against speedy purchases here. So I'm just warning you that no one voted against the purchases here, that your Minister of Transport has succeeded in what has so far apparently, at least as far as I remember, to anyone that he has defended material here other than that of the parliamentary database. That it was from my side who offered maximum shortening, and the proposal went through to clarify the fiasco in the Economic Committee. 'Cause I don't know what you guys actually approved of or didn't approve of in the government. Nobody's ever done this kind of embarrassment here. And we've done everything we can to keep it from falling off the table. Next, to not open highways. Perhaps you do not have latifundy in southern Bohemia to know that only last year there opened about 25 kilometers of D3 and opened other shorter sections in the whole republic. So please stop talking nonsense. I'd like that very much. So, on your own subject. If I understand this correctly, then we want the Czech Republic not only to sign up for fiscal compact but also to fill it. If the Prime Minister here is complaining that someone is setting a trap for him, and now that they're about to start acting now and now, then I would ask, if the whole eurozone is capable of doing that, then why aren't we capable of doing that? Why, in a much worse situation, worse starting points, they went to fiscal compact. We even have a number of parameters, let it be unemployment, whether it was, unfortunately, a trend in debt. Let this be a balance in a wide range of parameters with the economic and debt crisis in Europe and the world. Still, we can't do it here, and in the rest of Europe, we can do it for much more bloody victims. You can see how serious you are. [[There's noise in the room.]] I would say that a neutered fiscal compact without Articles 3 and 4 will really only be an empty gesture. Even a bad or imperfect signal for investors. I am probably different from President Stanjura because if I were an investor who did not know the reality of the Czech Republic, I would look at what the country's economic, economic and social stability is expected to be, and I would decide accordingly. In that short, no one is going to examine what it contains and how well or poorly the contract is written, but only to look at the formal gesture, that is, are in the current states that have accepted the commitment or are not. But what we are primarily concerned with is really responsible budgeting. Fiscal responsibility. Because, unlike you, I think, from the government coalition, we're putting a balance between fiscal responsibility and quality of life. I think that examples from Greece, Spain, Italy and other countries, even those very developed, show quite clearly, perhaps with the exception of Germany, it concerns all countries in Europe, that there is a direct dimension between it, because quality of life, it is also the stability and tranquility of citizens, whether they will receive at least to the present extent with any expectation, improvement or at least stability of the permanent state of the pension, whether we will take care of the necessary, whether we are able to finance that part of the economy, which unfortunately increasingly passes under the public sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u37	I would ask my colleagues for peace so that Mr František Laudát can finish his speech and pay due attention to him. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u38	Thank you, Mr President. By volunteering, or by imposing fiscal responsibility here, we're way past the season. I would point out that, without much hype, many countries in the world had reached this step in the early 1990's, even if I am not mistaken in 1997, and it was also Prime Minister Sobotka today, laughing at Václav Klaus when he wanted to incorporate the principle of non-debting the country into the Constitution, that is, let's just distribute the money when I say it a lot roughly, which we will choose to simply reconcile income and expenditure. There are countries that have even, or parts of them, smaller units that have even accepted this in the second decade of the last century. I was expecting someone from úsvit to sign up for a Swiss-type democracy here. I had my budget responsibilities pulled out in Switzerland. So that's where most of the ammunition is applied so-called. a harmonised accounting model. This model separates an administrative operating account and an investment account with an annual operating account to be balanced. The excesses or deficits are to be eliminated by tax treatment. Furthermore, the rule is that at least 60 per cent of the annual investment costs should be self-financed. Some cantons have also introduced binding legislation that limits deficit levels and imposes immediate corrective measures. When I mentioned the last century, in the cantonal of Saint Gallen, for example, the law of 17 June 1929 on cantonal finance states that the budget must be designed in accordance with the principle of balanced income and expenditure. In practice, this condition is considered to be met if the budget deficit does not exceed 3% of tax revenue. You don't think you need to bother me, Mr. Colleague? [[Members of Pavel Blazek.]] And if, after all, the deficit is exceeded, it is transferred to the next year and the same rule applies, which means they can't manage deficitly. Poland has been mentioned here. There they took exactly the steps that social democracy promised in negotiations with the government of Petr Nečas during the last parliamentary term and from which it then withdrew. This means national public debt has a ceiling of 60 per cent of annual GDP and has also introduced a monitoring system. If this is exceeded, very hard restrictions are taking place and further indebtion is not possible and almost anything has to be reduced. So if it were Poland, the Social Democrats had a chance in the last parliamentary term. I think we might be more likely to be expecting someone here to try, perhaps, in a different form and in other time horizons, to repeat the story from Canada. The first province to introduce a balanced budget law in 1991 was British Columbia. The following government under the leadership of the New Democrats - that was the name of the party, the New Democrats, not the Social Democrats - broke the law shortly thereafter and a series of budget deficits occurred. In 2000, just before the electoral defeat, the New Democrats passed the Act on budgetary transparency and accountability, which was subsequently replaced by the Act on a balanced budget and ministerial responsibility. [[17.30 hours]] In view of the ongoing crisis and the significant reduction in budget revenue, an amendment has been adopted to this law, which has enabled the budget deficit to be approved. The amendment to the Act allows budget deficits to be achieved over a period of two years. At the end of this two-year period, however, this exemption will automatically end and the original ban on deficit financing will apply. I think that some of the coalition parties might change their name to the New Democrats. You know that, even though it is legally enshrined, how the United States' public debt is being broken down, where you are witnessing an almost repeated ritual. What's interesting is that if the debt ceiling is broken today - they have $17 trillion in debt - the criminal is already in the media, even the Czechs, I noticed the last story, the one who doesn't want to break the debt, not the one who breaks it, for which the President of the United States is Obama. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Countries that took it quite seriously in the past decade or the end of the previous decade and actually have more ineffective rules for the stability of public finances, so India was once in the late 1980's cowardice, and there was indeed a subsequent analysis of it, because they succeeded in a miracle and actually got to responsible fiscal policy and was the subject of examining whether it was adopted laws or concrete steps by the state administration and political representations. And that actually resulted in some rules, the principles of responsible fiscal governance of the state. And compare it to that - I quote them to you here, I hope at least someone will listen - and compare it to what the Minister of Finance is talking about, virtually. what he does in real steps.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u39	I'm going to ask you, then, for a moment to interrupt your interpretation and the others, to transfer your discussions outside the Chamber so that you can finish this in peace. Proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u40	One. The reduction of the country's total debt to a reasonable degree in order to create a buffer against factors that may have a negative impact on the overall amount of debt in the future, and until that level of debt is reached, the total operating expenditure of the State in each financial year must be lower than the total operating expenditure in the same financial year. Rule number two. Once a reasonable level of overall country debt is reached, this level is to be maintained, which is to be achieved by not having the total operating expenditure of the country exceeded its total revenue for a reasonably long time. Three. Achieving and maintaining the level of net value of a country that will provide protection against factors that may adversely affect the country's net value in the future. Four. Repeated management of the fiscal risks facing countries. Five. Monitoring policy consistent with a reasonable degree of predictability of the level and stability of tax rates for future years. So much New Zealand and the analysis of their fiscal success, from which they live today. And that is precisely what has emerged from their conclusion that not laws, because many countries have relatively hard legislation, but if politicians get into trouble, legislation is bent and indebted further. So specific policy behavior then decides fiscal responsibility or fiscally responsible policy. It's still falling down here that we're supposed to learn from neighboring Slovakia. I think they're on the trajectory of fiscal delusion, just like we were, and we're probably going back there. I would rather recommend examples of countries that went through bankruptcy or, after all, the scarecrow of bankruptcy. You'll be surprised, they're South American states, and they're not only some of them like Argentina, Ecuador, Brazil, Peru, and others have adopted legislation, but also, in some way, through huge corruption and political instability, they've started to follow it. So just Ecuador, if I had taken over the Minister of Finance's jargon, I wish, as far as fiscal responsibility is concerned, there was a similar trend with us and we should have ambition not for Slovakia, but for Ecuador for fiscal responsibility. The undisputable fact is that in the last decade, Ecuador's public debt has been reduced quite significantly. In 2003, they had 53.7 percent of GDP, in 2005 only 40.1 percent, and it continued to run - 2006 they were already 33 percent, 2007 slightly increased to 33.1 %, 2008 - 25.5 percent, and in 2009, when the world was already in crisis, they fell even to 20.2% of public debt from annual GDP. So I hope that I have outlined at least a little bit here what is responsible budgeting, what is responsible fiscal policy, why we want the Czech Republic not only formally to sign up for its fiscal pact, but mainly, and this is very important, perhaps even more important, to start filling it with its behavior today and daily. If, aside from Prime Minister Sobotka, I don't expect that to happen verbally when it comes to the Minister of Finance, one thing he says is the exact opposite. Thank you, everyone who listened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u41	I thank Mr František Laudát. There is now another Mrs Olga Havlová who has been duly applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u42	Mr President, honourable Member of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there have already been many arguments here today, and I do not know why we are dealing with a treaty here and now that is not supposed to oblige us. By approving the fiscal pact, we would hand over the imaginary key to the Czech state register to Brussels. The European Union should thus be able to dictate to us in the future how we are to have a state budget. In the past few months, I have intersected both the Prime Minister and the finance ministers and foreign ministers, and I have asked them questions about the fiscal pact. Know that only Germany, Greece, Estonia, Denmark and Sweden adhere to the fiscal pact of a structural deficit of 0,5 per cent. So it is only 5 countries out of 25 that have already signed the fiscal pact. The others simply ignore him. For example, Spain announced about two months after it was signed that it was not going to follow it anyway. And that's not all! For example, the deficit reduction rule for countries with a total debt of more than 60 per cent is respected only by Germany and Austria according to the response to the interpelation. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u43	Gentlemen, fellow Members, please allow the lady to complete her contribution to this matter in peace and postpone any discussions or move to the lobby. Especially here on the right I would like colleagues - including those who are club presidents! Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u44	And what about the obligation to provide outlooks for state budgets that will be sustainable in the long term? Only Estonia and Germany fully comply with this obligation. Among the gentlemen, it is said that the word and agreement are respected, it certainly does not apply to the fiscal pact, nor will it seem to apply. At the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I asked the government to explain to us what kind of contract it is that no one is following. Why should we accept something that we already have doubts about today? I am in favour of budgetary responsibility, but not of pressure being imposed on us by the external bodies of the European Council, or even by the European Court of Justice, who will not take into account the interests of the Czech Republic in their decision-making, but their own interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u45	I thank Mrs Olza Havlová and now Mrs Chalánková has joined the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 has already advocated accession in the last parliamentary term and the signature of the fiscal compact, both in the government and for myself, in the Committee on European Affairs. I will no longer discuss the entire content of the fiscalcompact or stress the importance of Title III and Title IV. In view of the previous debate, I would also like to talk about the possibility of defending Czech national interests, especially at the time of the approval of the fiscal treaty. At least in economic terms, our national interests depend on our economic structure, both sectoral, territorial in the case of geographical orientation of our economy and geographical location. Both of these factors predestin us to play an active, positive role in Europe in order to eliminate unnecessary barriers and barriers and to participate in projects of European importance that will benefit us and, at the same time, significantly contribute to anchoring us in the European system and strengthening Europe as a whole. These projects are of far greater importance to us than if we were to the outside of a closed country on the geographical periphery. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] The Czech Republic is one of the most open economies in the world, and it is therefore vitally important that it is open as far as free trade in goods and services is concerned. [[Move?]] The same applies to the free movement of labour. If the integration core of the European Union should be defined as an agreement for the introduction of minimum income taxes, then it is our concern to strongly oppose. The same applies to the introduction of a Union tax. The European Union has achieved its wealth thanks to competition and competition between individuals, companies, but also between states. In our interest, therefore, this competition should be maintained and developed. The particularity of the Czech economy is an unusually large proportion of industry, especially automotive. This is not good because the economy is not stable in the long term without diversification. Compared to most European Union countries, we have an abnormally low share of services in gross domestic product. That is why we should support the maximum freedom to provide services within the European Union, including financial services, where the European Union is significantly lagging behind America. Our natural economic interests do not differ significantly from Slovak, Slovenian, Austrian, or medium-sized to small countries located in the heart of Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u47	I'm begging for peace one more time. Colleagues, gentlemen, so far, Mrs Jitka Chalánková would like to finish her speech, and then I see the application of the Foreign Minister. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u48	It is therefore a question of why the policies of these countries in the European Union look more radically differently than ours in terms of perception of European responsibility, positive and responsible fulfilment of the Member States' obligations, not just formal ones, on paper given, even by not being considered to be nasty troublemakers who do not know what they want. In the case of our interests, we ignore or take for granted something that brings us enormous economic benefits. Thanks to the single internal market, the Czech Republic has a significant surplus of its trade balance and an enormous influx of foreign investment. These are compelling reasons for diametrically different behaviour in the European Union compared to ours. We have very narrowed hockey, accounting thinking about the advantages and disadvantages of individual integration decisions or steps. This was marked in the debate on the loan to the International Monetary Fund or the agreement on the fiscal pact. On the one hand, it is hard for us to contribute to the common treasury, but drawing on European funds in much larger volumes does not bother us at all and we take them for granted. A comprehensive perception of the combined benefits and costs of integration would not harm us at all. Long story short, I'll probably just pick out the headlines. In particular, our economic interests within the European Union represent the operation in the single internal market of the European Union in the broadest possible form, being a far more inventive and more creative entity in the creation of common European policies and projects. For example, in the field of trans-European networks, joint projects financed from direct grants, science and research, etc. Be a supporter of a healthy fiscal and macroeconomic environment in the European Union and actively participate in this project. Also participate actively in the common monetary policy first in the area of fiscal policy and subsequently in other areas. Ironically, the government refuses to accept the anchoring of the debt brake. In short, I believe that Europe is in danger. There are even other ghosts around Europe, but the fiscalcompact, the euro, or, for example, common European banking supervision, are certainly not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u49	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Mr Roman Sklenák has now signed up with priority rights as chairman of the Social Democracy Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, given the situation of time and the number of points that we have discussed at the current meeting, I am allowing you to come forward with a number of procedural proposals. First of all, I propose that we set aside for the third reading of the bills and today by the end of the day. If the House agrees, then I suggest that we vote on the situation in which we find ourselves meeting the situation of a particularly justified case so that we can change the programme and, in particular, I propose that the House agree that, after the end of this point, we place point 15, House press 49, which is the amendment to the Occupational Soldiers Act, and then a firm block of third readings in the order of paragraphs 53 to 61 in a row. These are my procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u51	Thank you. Now I have complicated my situation, given that I have assumed that we will be finishing negotiations on this point after all, but I have no choice but to vote on this without debate, on these proposals. I will sign you all off and we will discuss the proposals made by the chairman of the Czech Social Democratic Party club. Log in with your identification cards and we will first have a vote on the fact that there is a particularly serious situation in which we will change the programme, that is, that the interrupted point number 15, Act number 221/1999 Coll., will be completed after the end of this point, and then we will be able to vote on the laws at third reading. So three votes in total. The first vote is to vote that there is a particularly serious reason for changing the programme. I've started the vote on order 133 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 133 of 127 for 122, against no one. The House agrees that there are particularly serious reasons for changing the programme. [[17.50 hours]] So now that this point will be followed by item number 15, i.e. the interrupted point concerning the Act on Occupational Soldiers. I've started the vote on order number 134, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 134, 132 for 131 present. The motion was accepted. Now the final proposal is that we can vote in this afternoon after the end of paragraph 15 and on the laws at third reading. I've started the vote with order number 135, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 135, 134 for 134. The motion was accepted. Because there were also suggestions for specific points in the third reading, please, do you want to repeat them? If not, we can vote on the three points raised by President Sklenák. I have begun the vote on order number 136 and I ask who is in favour of the inclusion of these three points in the third reading. - Nine points, sorry, third reading. I'm sorry. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 136, from the present 135 for 134, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can therefore continue, with the fact that I have before me the factual remark of my fellow Member, Mr Volný. No. In that case, I will give the floor to the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek for his performance at an open point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u52	Thank you. I'd like to react in a whole way, because we've actually exhausted that series of performances to this point. I would actually sum it up in response to one sentence that sounded here during the performance. One of the colleagues said, "What do we need this Brusel for?" What do we need this Brusel for anyway? You know what's weird about that? If I've been watching this, I wasn't here yesterday because I was in Brussels right now, which we don't need, there's been a debate here for hours about one statement by the Secretary of Defense. Why was the debate going on? Because part of the Members seemed that the Czech Republic might find itself on the periphery in the area of security. That's probably why somebody picked up here. On the periphery of Brussels. Let me remind you that the negotiations concerning the security of the Czech Republic are taking place in Brussels. The Brusel, which, as was said here at the same time, we do not need. Do you understand? So what have we been doing for hours, and why does anyone here mind that we're on the periphery? I would like to assure you that our membership of the European Union also has a large and significant security dimension and is increasingly important. It is on European Union soil, for example, this week, foreign ministers discussed security issues. Practically all the time. The Brusel, which we do not need, is discussing security issues which I understood were perceived as key. And no one would want us to find ourselves on the periphery. So how is it that somebody's okay here, or is it that we're in Europe on the periphery, and suddenly somebody's okay here? I say that what Czech foreign policy has been doing in recent years, when we rejected the Pact plus for the euro, when we rejected the fiscal pact when we refused to talk about the banking union, we were really on the periphery. And I say that it has fundamental consequences for the position of the Czech Republic and for how we are perceived there. For the way we went in there. Do you understand? How we're understood as someone who wants to or doesn't want to participate in something. Let me remind you that in recent years, thanks to the crisis, the fact that in Europe, in the vast majority of states, it has come to the knowledge that European integration, as it has been so far, may not survive another crisis, and that is why steps are being taken to prevent something like this. That is the essence of what is at the heart of the fiscal pact. It is a response that should prevent Europe from getting into such difficult situations because it does not have the tools, by admitting debt, by not having the means to deal with it when some part of the finance is in decline. As a result, these tools are created. And if a country says it has no interest in taking part in this, then of course it finds itself in the periphery, and what we see today can be in Europe, where the core of the countries that are going to do these things and then others that are not going to care, then the question is, what will be left for those countries on the peripheries tomorrow. What I think the citizens of this country want is, for example, free movement of persons. What the entrepreneurs who are here want is free movement of goods. The business we live from. And what is obvious to us today may not be obvious, even in such things as the free movement of persons, if we do not ensure that Europe actually develops by being part of it and by sticking to a project where most progress together. Until now, even the key figures of the European Union have had an interest in ensuring that Europe does not split. This can be said of President Van Rompuy, one might say of Barros, one could say of Mrs Merkelová, a number of key European politicians. They weren't interested in fracturing. You know that we have elections ahead of us, and it is actually not 100% certain how Europe will evolve tomorrow. This means where we stand in this process, if we are showing that we are concerned that Europe will work in the future, these are quite fundamental things. If it bothers us, friends, that we have some feelings that we might find ourselves on the periphery in terms of the security and security of this state, then I am telling you that the question of our full membership of the Union, as much as possible, is also a question that is related to future security, the integration of our state in Europe. I think the connection is obvious. And I, if there are any proposals here that say that Members, albeit from the opposition, are prepared to negotiate a fiscal pact, I welcome them, of course. We just started this debate today, and I wish everyone would consider what I'm saying. Europe is deciding today what it will look like tomorrow. We should be there. The fiscal pact is part of a new movement and let's talk about it here. Let's talk about this here, not just in the House, let's talk about it on the committees. If this debate were to begin here, I welcome it, let's say the proposals that may not always be the same with ours. We certainly want this serious debate and we want an agreement that goes beyond only coalition political parties. I wish we could. Thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u53	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. I have one more factual comment from the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u54	I'd like to refer to what the Secretary of State said. It's such a popular method that I pull two words out of the whole sentence and then argue with them. I said, and the whole sentence that we do not need Brusel for sound budgetary policy is in our interest. I insist, and you draw far-reaching conclusions. I said we don't need Brusel, period, without the first part. That's just not correct. I said that in order to have reasonable public finances, balanced state budgets, we don't need to sign any pacts that your Deputy Prime Minister here said were a gesture, a formality, unnecessary de facto. Please, when you quote and criticize opposition acts, then in the whole sentence. I didn't say anything like what you criticized, I didn't say, and I don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u55	Thank you to the chairman of the club for keeping time. I don't have a written application or I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is interest from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, from the rapporteur to the final word after the general debate. Yes, the rapporteur is interested. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u56	Good evening almost. I would merely like, on the basis of what I have heard here, to extend, in essence, a range of committees where we will discuss these materials, on the one hand, the Foreign Committee, the Budget Committee, that is what I have said, and also the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-016-051.u57	Okay, thank you. It was supposed to be in the debate, I hope it was in the debate, I didn't follow the whole thing. So the Foreign Committee, the Committee on Budgets and European Affairs. We will consider proposals for the commandments, if there are no other proposals. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. The rapporteur has proposed two other committees. So we will vote first on the foreign committee, in the vote on order number 137 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the foreign committee's commandment. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 137 of the 143 Members present for 130, against 2. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the Committee on Budgets, in the vote 138, which I have launched. I ask who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 138 of 149 for 143, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. We will now vote on the commandment of the Committee on European Affairs, in the vote order number 139, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 139 of 149 for 143, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Budgetary Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs. The hearing period shall be maintained for 60 days. Thank you, Secretary of State, thank you, rapporteur, and I finish point 51. Before I begin any more points, I state two further apologies, and this is an apology from Mrs Olga Havlová at 19 a.m. and from 18.50 apology from Mr Karel Šidl. We'll continue as we decided a short time ago at item 15.
