ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-005-041.u1	41. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification The Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kazakhstan on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters (Astana, 6. 6. 2013) /house print 69/ - first reading I ask the Minister of Justice once again to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-005-041.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I were to sum this up, basically the purpose of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kazakhstan on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters is to contractually regulate this area of international judicial cooperation. As there is contact between the judicial authorities of these two countries and no bilateral international treaty has been concluded, it is appropriate to welcome this initiative. The Treaty will define in detail both the legal framework for requiring and providing mutual legal assistance, which is thus already taking place, but on the basis of non-contractual relations, and the conditions for requiring and providing certain specific types of legal assistance, including cooperation, which is very important in identifying, securing and confiscation proceeds from crime. The area of extradition, extradition, transfer of criminal proceedings and transfer of sentenced persons is explicitly excluded. The definition of central authorities, where as far as the Czech Republic is concerned, depends on the stage of criminal proceedings for which legal aid is sought. So the Supreme Attorney General, the Ministry of Justice. The definition of the concept of judicial authority in conjunction with Article IV. contracts exclude, so that they can proceed according to the contract e.g. the security or police forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan. This area is also remembered. The Treaty also provides for a number of reasons for refusing legal aid. The area of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and other international commitments of the Czech Republic is also respected in this area. The implementation of the contract will be in common application of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, e.g. it is a communication through the Interpol National Switchboard, i.e. Department of International Police Cooperation Police Prezidia. The implementation of the contract will not be linked to the increased impact on the state budget. There is also no reason to believe that there would be a mutual increase in the number of cases of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the two States as a result of the negotiation of the contract. It is only clear that we recommend and welcome the favourable assessment of this proposal by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-005-041.u3	Yes. Thank you. I ask the rapporteur, to whom Mr René Číp was appointed for first reading, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-005-041.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, the Minister has presented the Treaty quite thoroughly. As rapporteur, I would like to add that the Treaty and its entry into force are in line with the obligations of the Czech Republic arising from membership of the European Union and constitutional order and other parts of the rule of law of the Czech Republic. The agreement is also in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic and will significantly help extend the possibility of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the two Parties. Finally, as rapporteur, I would like to propose the commandments of the treaty in question to the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-005-041.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. No one's checking in, so I'm quitting, too. No one demands final words. So we will vote on the commandment. I proposed by my decision to order this press to the Foreign Committee, as did the rapporteur. I don't see any other suggestions. I will begin the vote and ask who agrees with the commandment of this press to the Foreign Committee. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 48, registered 166, for 147, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I'm done with this point. Thank you to the rapporteur. Before we proceed to paragraph 42, I have received some more apologies. Minister Chládek apologizes, on Thursday, 6 February at 17.30, and then Mr Gabal apologizes, from today's meeting from 12 a.m. and tomorrow's meeting all day, and Mr Votava apologises for this afternoon's meeting from 14.30 p.m. and Mrs Lorencová apologizes for today's and tomorrow's meeting for health reasons. That was an apology. We're going to continue with point 42, which is
