ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 18th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I would like to inform you that I have called this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 42 Members. The invitation was sent to you on Friday, October 10th of this year. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. So far, no such thing... Mrs Putnová - card number 6. I ask you to take your seats, and I would like to inform you of one more important matter. As you all know, the President of the Republic appointed Ms Karla Šlechtová as Minister for Regional Development on 8 October this year. Allow me to welcome a new member of the government among us and on behalf of all of us, wish her every success in her difficult work. [[Applause]] We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr David Kádner and Mr Jaroslav Klaška. Mr Kádner is not here. Mr Kádner is not excused from this meeting and has been informed that he will be proposed by the verifier, so I consider that to be a vote. But I'm still going to ask if there's another proposal. It's not like that. So we will vote on the fact that the verifiers of this meeting will be Mr Kádner and Mr Klaška. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 1, registered is 110, for 109, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I note that we have designated Mr Kádner and Mr Klaška as verifiers for this meeting. Now I'd like to introduce you to my apologies. Mr Janulík apologies for the Pastuchová of employment, Mr Gazdík, Member of the European Parliament, Member of the European Parliament, Seďa of employment, Member of the European Parliament, Member of the European Parliament, Member of the European Komárek, Member of the European Černý, Member of the European Parliament, Member Balaštíková the Holík Benda, Member of the European Parliament, Member of the European Parliament, Member of the European Communities, Member of the Marková Communities, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Junek, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Koskuba, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Halíková, Member of the European Karamazov, Member of the European Váňa, Zlatuška of the European Communities, Member of the European Tejc, Member of the Lorencová Kořenek, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Tureček, Member of the European Mackovík, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Jermanová, Member of the European Sylor, Member of the European Andrle, Member of the Beznoska Communities, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Communities, Member of the European Communities, Member of the Plzák Communities, Member of the European Communities, European Šincl, European Pražák, European Parliament, European Grebeníček, European Communities, European Communities, European Brázdil, European Parliament, European Kovářová, European Communities, European Parliament, Krákora Parliament, European Parliament, Hubáčková Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Chalánková, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament, Kováčik Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament's, European Zahradníček, European Parliament's, European Parliament, European Parliament, European Parliament's, European Fischerová, European Parliament, European Parliament, Hovorka Parliament, European Parliament's, European Parliament's, European Parliament's, European Parliament's, European Parliament's, European Parliament's, European Fiedler's, European Parliament's, European Parliament's, European Hnyková, European Opálka' Vyzula of the Nekl Bohdalová' Skalický of the European Parliament' grounds of the Hájek Parliament', European Heger, European Parliament's, European Parliament'. Among the members of the government, Minister Dienstbier apologizes for no reason, Minister Marksová for work reasons, Minister Němeček for work reasons and Minister Zaorálek also for work reasons. Then I have a request from the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr Kalousek, who asks me to give the priority right to President Laudát. Am I to see this as an apology, Mr. Chairman? Oh, I see. I understand that, and I therefore say that Vice-President Laudát will have the right of priority for TOP 09. So many apologies. We would now proceed to the establishment of the agenda of the 18th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. I would like to remind you that pursuant to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application, therefore the amendment or addition of the agenda cannot be proposed and the approved programme cannot also be extended. I'll ask if anyone wants to get off at this stage. Mr Laudát, then Mr President of the ODS Club and then both gentlemen with priority rights from the Úsvit movement - Vice-President Fiala and Mr Okamura, and instead of the absent President of the ANO Club, Vice-President Schwarz. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. [[The microphone isn't on.]] I'm sorry, it's working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, Dear Ministers, unfortunately absent Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 failed at the last meeting of the House to place the 'current situation in the transport department'. The discussion of this point was vetoed by clubs of the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement. We consider the situation in the transport resort so critical that together with the ODS club we initiated the call for this extraordinary meeting. [[Noise in the hall.]] I would like to say to the members and members of the club YES and KDU-ČSL from this place that the fact that you are putting your head in the sand in front of the triestial reality, that you are trying to cover up the first real results of your governance, does not mean that the crisis of the resort will not become visible to the general public in time. [[11.10 hours]] Mr. Chairman, if I may beg. If the gentlemen on the left don't care, please go to the hallway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u3	Given how long I've been reading the apologies, it's obvious that there aren't many of us here, so I'm asking you to match the sound level in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u4	That he wouldn't become visible to the general public. In spite of the media, which has so far been racking up the crisis of the Department of Transport. Members, however, are responsible for the functioning of the country in its real form, not in the space of virtual media deception and lies. You will not be able to live up to the past, to the harsh insults of political competition in the squares and at press conferences and perhaps even by methods far more repulsive. The situation in the Department of Transport is the opposite of the declaration of the head of the ANO movement of Mr Babiš. A waste of time instead of an investigation. Instead of transparent contracts, the return of a corrupt environment. Instead of specializing in laymen whose only qualification is the YES battalion and apparently the desire to come to as much money as possible in their own pocket. Instead of responsibility and decision-making cowardice and inability to decide and bear responsibility. Instead of humility in solving problems of arrogance of power. Transport infrastructure is so important for the country's economy, for people's work, for their safety, that I would consider thwarting this meeting to be a mockery to the citizens of our country. Quality and modern transport infrastructure is one of the distinctive attributes of the quality of life of citizens. Your internal interests ahead of the second round of Senate elections are just a demonstration of what your priorities are in the country's administration. I will try to prove that, in particular, at the Road and Motorway Directorate, there is a crisis that is unprecedented in its history. In our opinion, the current Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař does not guarantee that the information below will be independently examined and corrected. Therefore, we propose setting up a commission of inquiry to map the real situation of the resort, in particular the situation at the Road and Motorway Directorate, to check the compliance of contractual obligations with the Public Procurement Act, compliance with the principle of sound economics and the like. The public has the right to know the real facts about Minister Prachař's work and people employed by him. All the more so, that after many years as the first coalition, you have expelled representatives of the opposition from the statutory bodies of state companies and organizations, thus completely eliminating the possibility of continuous control of the real economy and the state of these institutions. My performance will touch the following circuits: first - the chaotic situation at the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic, Secondly, the renewal of the grey zone, i.e. the environment of public relations with Godfathers and suppliers, third - chaos in the preparation of new buildings, destruction of prepared investments, Fourthly - procurement to opaque firms, Fifthly, the situation in the preparation of the tender for the new electronic toll operator. Sixth, I've got a point of difference. And if not the last point that you... [[Two Members in the first bench are laughing at something about a laptop.]] Madam, by means of what you are transferring here, you may have other problems with the YES movement, whether you could leave, or Mr President, make peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u5	I, once again, ask my fellow Members, at this stage, not to disturb Mr Laudát. If you have something funny in there, please go read it outside the boardroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u6	If the tragic situation on our roads doesn't move you, then I don't know what. First, the chaotic situation at the Road and Motorway Directorate. In the light of the facts, it is best in my capacity to get to the data that the minutes of the extraordinary meeting of the race committee of the Prague trade union organization, held on 2nd October, say. 9. 2014. Quote: Extraordinary meeting of the race committee of the trade union organization took place on the basis of the agreement of the President of Mr Skoupil with the Director of Křítková, appointed by the management of the organization of 29. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The materials submitted by the management of the organization were discussed at an emergency meeting of the race committee of the trade union organization and we have the following comments on the organizational structure. 1. We ask that the proposed organisational change be implemented only after the appointment of the new Director-General. This comment is based on the fact that a number of organizational changes have been made to our organization since the beginning of the year, which have led to a deterioration of the already bad state of our country's political representation." - Since you are not listening, I will repeat a substantial part: Our comment is based on the fact that from the beginning of the year a number of organizational changes have been made to our organization that have always led to a deterioration of the already bad state of our state's political representation. 2. We fundamentally disagree with the implementation of personnel policy in our organization, Mr Tomeš, the advisor to the Minister of Transport, and Mr Petrák, Mr Jančura's advisor. 3. The Department of Environment 10700 we propose to include back under the construction section, where it belongs systemically. We also propose to reduce the number of departments. - Please listen: Four departments have four employees and four managers. 4. Department of Internal Administration 12300 we propose to include into the administrative section. The installation in the operation section lacks any logic. 5. The supervisory department of the electronic myth we propose to transfer back to the section. This formation has always been a section. The upcoming changes announced by the Minister of Transport also speak for this proposal. 6. We propose to reduce the number of departments in the communication department. This department has four executives and two employees. I repeat, this department has four executives and two employees. 7. Department of Intelligent Transport Systems 19610 we propose to include back into the operation section as a separate department. This department belongs systemically to the operating section. We refer to the management of the organization with a request for comment on yesterday's press statement by the Minister of Transport, engineer Prachař in immediately.cz concerning the restructuring of factories and restrictions on regional administrations. So much quote from the registration of the racing committee of the Prague trade union organization, held on 2. 9. 2014. In a deeper analysis of trade union records - I note that I obtained this without their knowledge - I must say that it would be ridiculous if it were not an organization through which the state invests about 30 billion per year. CZK including European Union finance. The only thing Mr. Prachař cares about is for the Road and Motorway Directorate to create troughs. Could you, Minister, tell us a secret about how management procedures are conducted in a structure where half of the staff member accounts for one manager? See point six of the minutes, PR department, I point out. I understand that the communication department must be the strongest component of the ANO movement's governance, which is to build and maintain motorways, express roads, I. class roads, railways and water transport works according to the statute. A media piece of credit will explain to people that there are highways, even if they aren't. As an inspiration, I recommend the final scene of the movie White Mrs. Komonická. Mr. Babiš yelled in Pilsen Square that I was an alien. The Prime Minister was talking about UFO property on Sunday. But for the Czech, Moravian and Silesian public, the government coalition is apparently planning UFO highways. Next, Minister Prachař of the YES movement, it will be better. Why are you destroying the organizational structure that takes care of electronic tolls? Is it just your ignorance or your intent? How far will your devastation go to a key state organization? After changing the organizational order, you increased the number of sections to ŘSD. So translated for the general public, you've increased the number of deputy CEOs. [[11.20 hours]] You've allocated generous salaries to these at the expense of employees. Do you hear me? He allocated salaries at the expense of the employees. You really are a right-wing party with a social feeling. At the Road and Motorway Directorate, the social feeling of YES was felt by ordinary professionals. No reward for the work, but the futrization of the troughs at the expense of the experts. That's your policy! One of the accompanying phenomena of building business and policy is the decline in the quality of investments made. Just remind D47, poor quality bridges, poor quality repairs and last but not least the issue of surface quality of restored sections on D1. It would therefore logically be offered that I will build up in an investor organisation or strengthen the quality control section, which will be very high in the hierarchy of the organization. But what did Mr. Prachař of YES do? The quality control section of the buildings has been demoted to a mere department, which greatly reduces its powers in relation to the preparation and implementation of investments. Can you, Minister, tell the House what competence the head of this department you appointed has? I'm just saying that the head of this department doesn't even bother to carry out his duties at headquarters. This then clearly explains your steps, by which you got rid of the uncomfortable Mrs. Pošvářová. I am not sure that this information is still up to date due to the huge fluctuations of directors, sub-deletes and workers. If I'm not mistaken, in your early days, you brought your team to A.R.S.D. Supposedly, he had 12 people. Today, Mrs Křítková and Mr Čížek remain. According to the culinary information, you want to get rid of Mrs. Křítková, Mrs. Křítková wants to get rid of Mr. Čížek, whom you are protecting. Guys, this isn't a love triangle, this is an YES triangle on the ŘSD. That it is no longer time to delay with a radical solution proves the following record, again obtained without the knowledge of the authors. If, Prime Minister absent, Mr Babiš, this does not move you to radical steps, i.e. immediate appeal by Minister Prachař, then I really don't know anymore. Quote: Opinion of the Association of Racing Committees of Trade Union Organizations Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic on the current situation in the Czech Republic. The Association of Racing Committees of Trade Union Organizations of the Czech Republic is very seriously concerned about the situation in the organization, especially in the areas of personnel and organization. Since the beginning of the year, four CEOs have already taken part in the management of the organization, and several incompetent people have been appointed to the positions of expert directors by the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic without the selection procedure. Since the start of the new leadership, there has been a staff carousel at the Directorate General. He leaves monthly and a large number of staff members are then recruited. - Now, please listen: During the entire existence of our organization, there has been no such literally personnel genocide. Other areas that are very disturbing are frequent organizational changes. In a number of cases, these are non-systemic changes, and the main role they play is the sharp elbows of professional directors who do not want to take personal responsibility for their duties. The objections of the trade union organisation to the proposed organisational changes to the management of the organisation were largely accepted as justified. - Incredible sentence, please: There are smiling situations where employees themselves are searching for what section they are working in. Association of Racing Committees of Trade Union Organizations of the Czech Republic at the meeting with the organization's management on 19. 6. 2014 warned very strongly against recalling management of individual administrations and races, including their merging, and thus their destabilisation. The management of the organization has not yet succumbed to the pressures of the Ministry of Transport and has not taken these steps. Declaration by the Minister of Transport of the Czech Republic . Antonín Prachař for the Week. cz of 7. 10. 2014, in which it again mentions the necessary revision of the current leadership in some regional plants, has brought about a number of negative reactions from employees and a subsequent legitimate concern about the continued functioning of our organization. All these steps of the organization's leadership have always led to a deterioration of the already bad state caused in the past by the political representation of our state. To illustrate the overall situation, we state that since 1992 16 ministers have been in charge of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic and since 1997, when the establishment of the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic was 13 general directors. The Association of Racing Committees of the Trade Union Organizations of the Czech Republic notes that frequent personnel changes, including changes in organizational activities carried out this year, have made the activities of our organization very difficult for several years to come. - For the next few years! We hereby turn to the management of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic with the call to stop dilettantly interfering with the internal affairs of our organization. Otherwise, we will be forced to use all legal means to protect both the organization and its employees, including the possible announcement of a strike alert, in the extreme case by issuing a strike. We declare that there are a number of highly skilled experts working in our organization who know better than the advisors of the Minister of Transport, how to manage the organisation and how it should work. A summary of this part. The ŘSD is in a state of complete organizational and personnel disruption and chaos. The selection procedure for the director of the organization has failed, the experts are replaced by laymen, people who have been fired for serious reasons are returning. Minister Prachař appears to be preparing for the devastation of regional administrations, thereby destroying the logistical link between the regions, the investor organization. The situation of employees of the Czech Republic is desperate and the strike cannot be ruled out. Question for the absent Prime Minister. Do you believe, Prime Minister Sobotka, that Minister Prachař is a competent person to stabilise the Road and Motorway Directorate urgently? Are you seriously saying that the minister who destabilized her should stabilize the company? Why are you idling the threat of the collapse of regional administrations? I mean, your people run the county. Don't you care? Please act quickly! Two. Restoring the operation of the gray zone. I'm saying in advance that at this point, I'm going on thin ice. I've never moved in a godfather's environment, they haven't taken an interest in me or avoided me in their activities. I've never worked at the Road and Motorway Directorate and SŽDC, so I can map out who created the so-called "Personal Work" in the past. a gray zone. To be clear, I consider the environment and the persons who mediate and ensure the transfer of public money into the hands of godparents and selected economic structures. That's why I'll be very careful with specific names. I wouldn't want to hurt innocent people. Even in the past, people were thrown out of their posts insensitively, interfered with someone, sometimes a superior had a friend he needed to place. I haven't known for many years that there would be such cleansing as in the era of Mr. Prachař of the ANO movement, it would be better. Experts are replaced by dilettants without qualifications and with often strange backgrounds. No one can oversee the 13th chambers of everyone, but there are indications in the Department of Transport that this can no longer be a coincidence. Either the Minister does not know what is happening to him in the resort, which would be even more humanly understandable and more pleasant to us, or it is a deliberate system approach. Given the sensitivity of the subject, we can only find the real situation through the commission of inquiry. The only one who could access sensitive data and eliminate the possibility of being harmed by innocent people before giving a public verdict. The government of Prime Minister Nečas had a rather difficult time. He gradually eviscerated people with bad reputations who created a grey zone in the resort of transport. Today, these people are returning to even more crucial places under the YES banner. The established commission of inquiry should obtain information on the reasons why these people have been removed from their posts in the past. Today, it is said that "procure management" is returning. [[11.30 hours]] Minister, can you confirm that you have accepted a certain Mr. Mařík as operational director? Can you tell if this is the same person who previously worked on the administration of Chomutov, then at the Directorate-General, the operational section, and then as an advisor to the Director-General of Poruba? Do you know what happened in the incriminating places at the time? According to my information, they've already left. Is that true? Minister Prachař of the YES movement, can you rule out that the new head of the legal department of ŘSD Petřík has nothing to do with the drawers for the ROP Northwest? Is he off the job yet? Yes or no? Mr. Secretary, do you happen to know if a man known for his connection to Mr. Rittig was around your department? My colleagues from YES would point out that he was supposedly covering for himself by one of you. Can you rule out people not coming back halfway through the last decade with a bad reputation? Mr. Secretary, I'm based on the union record. How is it possible that your advisor Tomeš and Mr. Jančura's alleged advisor Mr. Petrák are also involved in the operation of the ŘSD organization? Can you tell us if this is the same Petrák, who was head of Mott MacDonald at the time of the Trojan Bridge, which instead of 400 million came out of Prague to 1.3 billion? [[Sudden noise increase in the hall.]] Is it the same Petrák who is in case D1 - break of the reconstructed section near Jihlava? Do you consider the possible ties of Jančura's businessman to transport normal? Aren't you afraid that when the institutions of the European Union find out about all this, they'll stop us from drawing all our subsidies? Summary. There are indications that the grey zone is being restored. The situation is all the worse that the Ministry of Transport seems to have completely lost control of ŘSD. The individual organisation's personnel issues are affected by people outside this institution without legal powers and responsibilities. A conflict of interest cannot be ruled out. During the era of Minister Prachař from the ANO movement, even the third wave of employees will be better in some places. Mr. absent Prime Minister - present, I'm sorry. What else has to happen to deal with the situation? Why do you tolerate the potential construction of a corrupt environment in the Department of Transport? How much longer? For the next one. Legislation - chaos in the preparation of new buildings, destruction of long-term investments. Legislative efforts by the Ministry of Transport and the Government Coalition. Project, property and supplier preparation of new investments is in complete chaos at the events in the Road and Motorway Management. As a great victory, the coalition was announced by pushing through the amendment to the Act on speeding up the construction of line constructions. The Minister actually threw himself into the novelization effort with a lot of energy. He first declared his intention publicly for the PR, thus stopping all land purchases, even the contracts already negotiated were cancelled. The owners of the bilaterally signed contracts were allegedly no longer sent to the investor. Subsequently, the Minister stopped all expropriation proceedings. Because of the unknown, the Minister stopped processing expert opinions on the price of the land. The Coalition arrogantly rejected Stanjura-Laudát's amendments, rejecting Mr Šidl's proposal. I doubt the constitutionality of this novel. It establishes an unequal position of owners in the purchase of land. It contains a great corruption potential - very current in the indication of regeneration of the grey zone. Members of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KDU movement, I would like to inform you that by your unwillingness to listen to the rational arguments of the opposition, you have direct political and civil responsibility for the paralysis of regional and municipal investment. Citizens do not distinguish whether they are losing land in the interest of the state, the region or the municipality. I have great indications that they are now refusing to act in municipal investment unless they get 16 times as much. You've probably also caused your novel to paralyze the expropriation process. The expropriation law states that it is only possible to expropriate after all other options have been exhausted. The final real option is expropriation after 16 times the offer. If my information is correct, the government unanimously passed the draft amendment to the Public Procurement Act. But the government, including Mr Prachař of the YES movement, will be better, do you really think this atrophed attempt will move Czech construction? How, Minister, did you defend the needs of the resort? Why didn't you at least try to subtract less work from more work? Why did you not clearly define the care of a proper economy? Why didn't you increase the limits of multi-work in the pattern of other countries? How many more months will you need for simple parametric changes to the law? How many years will you need to implement a new European directive that significantly liberalizes the conditions for the award and implementation of public procurement? Even if it's in the Ministry of Regional Development, why are you silent on the current lack of technical amendment? So what exactly is your ministry doing in this legislation? How do your concerns about legislation agree with the vote on the amendment to the Act on the Environmental Impact of Buildings? After all, what has arrived in the House is another blow to the construction department in crisis. What condition is the preparation of the promised Linen Construction Act this year, please? What are you talking about on all your tripartites, Prime Minister? You always come out in front of the cameras laughing and happy how you're doing. Maybe I do. It works for unionists, too. You, too. Probably Mr. Hanák's, too. But not the Czech economy. Prime Minister, do you think Minister Prachař will be able to secure a legislative process on laws that are much more complex than public procurement laws, wish brands and so on? How are you going to guarantee people that they can handle, for example, very complicated legislation around unmanned aircraft? Just because someone has a successful forwarding company doesn't mean they understand traffic. All those who have been in the area of the construction of line infrastructure for a longer time know how factually and especially time-consuming it is to obtain territorial decisions on the location of the building, building permits, purchase of the necessary land. However, this is often preceded by a difficult discussion of the principles of the zoning plan and its own zoning plan. Today, without consensus with the political representations of municipalities and regions, you have virtually no chance of implementing the construction in the required period. However, Mr Prachař of the ANO movement does not seem to understand this, otherwise he would not have been drawn to reckless statements and steps. [[The noise in the hall.]] For many. Prague Circuit - construction 511. This is the continuation of the circuit between the Brno motorway D1 and Běchovice. Tracing's stabilized. Tens of millions of crowns were spent on project preparation. Some time ago, the Supreme Administrative Court abolished the principles of the zoning plan for this construction, among other things, which is now being addressed, and the zoning plan, however, left in effect. Activists, as in many other cases, have used formal misconduct. Now Mr. Prachař of the ANO movement has been told that a more distant variant around Říčany will be better. This would de facto destroy the stumbling work for perhaps 20 years and push the implementation of the circuit to a point zero of up to fifteen years. [[The noise in the hall is increasing.]] Do you think, Mr President, that members of the ANO movement could be quiet...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u7	So they are not just members of the ANO movement, here I see two coalition MPs in a friendly debate. So I'm asking them to move her to the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u8	Minister, if you are an expert in your position, I'm sure you can tell us what the key role of the Prague Circuit is. I'll give you a choice: a transit route or a transfer of a part of the internal transport relations to this communication? [[Nesroz.]] How much do you think of the traffic load to 511 will form transit? If you answer both questions correctly, you'll see what nonsense you're saying. Not to mention the curious argument of your head of television that the reason is that Pavel Bém owns the land on the route of the existing option. Ladies and gentlemen, transport structures have been preparing for company horizons for 200 years. You think for a short time now, I don't know if Bém has land on route 511, but do you think we should statistically increase the transport burden inside the city, the number of traffic accidents, and other things just because there's supposedly somebody there? [[11.40 hours]] Your ideas with another version of the D3 motorway on the České Budějovice bypass are the same case. Moreover, you allegedly stopped the preparation of the D3 motorway in Central Bohemia. Is that true? Who gave you, Minister, the right behind the back of the political representation of the South Moravian Region to prepare a two-way continuation of the R52 link Brno-Vienna? [[Prime Minister, to say the least.]] Isn't the Czech-Austrian Treaty called into question by your position? How does your actions deal with your boss Babiš's statements about the inability to build a link between our country and our neighbors? A separate chapter is the reconstruction of the D1 motorway. Every perceptive user must notice that the old order has returned beautifully quickly in the era of Minister Prachař. The Road and Motorway Directorate did not complete or take over the opponents' opinions, which were entered in 2013, with the only exception, completion from the Czech Technical University. So far, there hasn't been any major carambola in traffic restrictions. That is probably why the pressure of the Minister of Transport has eased, and the transport police are no longer visible in the reconstructed sections. It was agreed - before your arrival, I note - that tow services will be without entitlement to remuneration in a permanent emergency, so that any removal from the traffic restrictions takes place quickly and safely. Can you tell us who and why canceled this? What kind of trouble must be faced in order to bring the measure back to the quality in which it was? Do you fall asleep, Minister, knowing that you have done the best possible for the safety of D1 users? Why did the supervision and emergency services of the SSUD ease? This probably involves explaining that the Czech speciality has returned again - after the implementation of traffic restrictions, they understand closures, followed by a technological break. Apparently, the contractors of the building must recover technologically and accept the fact that they will work. I can't think of any other explanation other than organizational chaos in the management of investments. Thanks to your way of running the resort, the original time plans for the second stage of the D1 reconstruction collapsed. Can you confirm whether Mr. Čížek actually stopped the preparatory work for the third stage of reconstruction, geological surveys, focus, diagnostics of existing roads? Do you really have to perform fragmentation when there are decayed engineering networks, corroded bridges, rotten bottom insulation against water? In the course of the first leg, you or your subordinates have intervened in a highly unprofessional manner. How do you explain the change in tender conditions, which can be clearly regarded as replacing the cement concrete road at the Jihlava convention? Please do not argue with the request of the Governor of the Region of Vysočin Mr. Běhounek, who asked for maximum shortening of the period of reconstruction due to the poor parameters of the routes. This cannot be considered as a binding opinion of the state administration. And the Governor should have written to you - build long? You have obviously violated the rules of the tender, the contractual arrangements with suppliers - I do not know what is in the contract, the conditions for drawing European funds. Who will be responsible for any damage? Information about strange steps in the reconstruction of the section D1, where the dispute with the supplier of Railway Construction Brno, has penetrated the public. Is it true, Minister, that the ŘSD unilaterally renounced the possibility of crediting the penalty for delays in the construction against the supplier's performance? Is it true that there should be an arbitration committee in which the state pulls the shorter end? Is it true that the deadline for completion of the section changes from 2014 to 2015, and some skeptics even threaten 2016? I understand there was a confrontation with a contractor you weren't at. But the subsequent arrangements and actions involve unilaterally disadvantageous performance to the detriment of the investor, and that is your responsibility. You don't have to answer this part because I got to the document in the meantime and I quote you part of the supplement, some of the provisions your people signed: [[quotes]] "Article 3.2 of the Treaty supplementing the Agreement on the settlement of the contested rights. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the (a) to (e) this Appendix, which the parties consider to be controversial to each other, shall be dealt with as follows: (a) The contested rights under Art. The Parties undertake to settle this Appendix by mutual agreement outside the court by 15 September 2014, setting up working teams under the leadership of Ing to resolve these contested rights within 10 working days of the date of application of this Appendix. [[10]] Petr Lakomé, director of the Prague race and the client, and under the direction of Mgr Jan Thomaier, attorney of law enforcement, as partner of Thomaier Legal, law firm, s.r.o., for the contractor. (b) If it does not reach the deadline referred to in point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the (a) this Appendix to the Agreement of the Parties in certain activities specified in the contested rights pursuant to Art. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. (a) and (b) of this Appendix, or at all, the dispute over these contested rights shall be settled in judicial proceedings. (c) The parties shall undertake the contested rights referred to in Article 2 (1) (c) of this Agreement. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. (c) to (e) in any way not to apply and enforce this Appendix against the other Party, in particular in legal proceedings, not to refer them to third parties, not to count them against the claims of the other Party, nor to take any other action contrary to the purpose of this Appendix, in order to resolve the dispute pursuant to Art. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. (a) and (b) of this Appendix. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. (c) to (e) this Appendix shall be extended for a period of 10 years.' On the next section... [[Short silence.]] Back to that, maybe. There are perhaps few as extremely disadvantageous additional contractual arrangements for the state as you have committed here. On the next section of Jihlava, you or your subordinates unilaterally violated the conditions of the competition by ordering you to stop the work and postpone the implementation of the second part of the motorway for next year. I consider the reference to climate conditions to be a proxy. Can you, Minister, tell the House who is carrying out technical supervision or construction manager on the said section, whether and what role has Mr Petrák already played in this case? Who will pay the extra costs of a supplier who, according to my information, did not require a change in the deadline? Will we not come in connection with a breach of the Public Procurement Act on European Finance? When this section was already delayed unsolvable until winter, why did they start another week later?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u9	Ambassador, I'm very sorry. I'm a tolerance myself, and I don't want to enter your performance, given that you have priority rights. However, I merely point out that the speaker should speak to the case under Paragraph 59 (2) of the EC Treaty. 4 and these are not interpelations. I guess that's why it's not entirely possible to ask the Minister's answer. The draft point is: The proposal to set up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies on the situation in the Department of Transport. So I'd beg you - I'm not warning you, I'm only asking you to stick to the matter and not conduct an interview with the minister, but to justify why the TOP 09 club wants to set up this committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u10	Mr President, thank you for your input. I want to fight it, because if I don't paint the situation in the resort and the reasons why an investigation committee is going to arise or at least end the operation of Mr. Prachař, I don't have a chance without telling you the disaster that is taking place at the Department of Transport. Why do I ask questions? Because I presume that Mr. Prachař will step up with priority rights, and he will answer all or all of the questions, that it is not, that it is not true, and he will prove it. Then there's no need for an investigation committee to be formed. So one and the other belong there. However, I see your point and thank you for it. [[11.50 hours]] Do we not come in connection with a breach of the Public Procurement Act on European Finance, when this section was already unsolvable until the winter? Why did work start on another section a week later? I don't think it's normal that the building's been out of order since August. I will be glad if the committee of inquiry finds out that all my questions will be answered so that our country will come out of this without harm or harm. Minister, what is your personal experience with managing a transport investment? Probably none. Otherwise, you wouldn't have allowed the madness that is supposedly taking place on the reconstructed sections. I have information that the construction coordinator has disappeared from the D1 Steering Committee. Was he fired or escaped by himself? Tomeš and Petrák are supposed to go there instead. Is that true? Maybe even a question for the investigation committee. How is their responsibility contracted? Who will be responsible for any damage? How much will the reconstructed sections cost? All this should be answered either by Mr. Prachař or by the investigation committee. Why do I ask? Allegedly, no one is concerned with the ongoing administration of change sheets. How could the construction manager or technical supervision or investor allow implementation without pre-approved change sheets? How much more work is there? What do we do if the legal limit is exceeded? What's the responsibility of who if you let this happen? Part of the users of newly renovated sections of the D1 motorway with cement concrete ground is disappointed from its surface. In a recent report by Czech Television, a specialist said that it is clear from sound measurements that everything is okay, but it cannot be denied that the road surface causes microvibration of vehicles that are uncomfortable for drivers and passengers. I would like to ask for an expert assessment of this problem or an opinion by the committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to find out the truth, these above suspicions must be submitted to an independent committee for examination. I demand that an independent audit be carried out on events on the D1 motorway as a basis for the Commission's work. Can you tell us, Minister, which sections of the second stage of the D1 reconstruction are fully prepared for implementation next year and the following years? Can you compare it to the original plans of stage two? What did you do to eliminate problems? I ask this question for the reasons that I have not noticed any preliminary work on the Prague-Brno section recently. Minister, a feverish initiative to make temporary repairs to the grinding layers on D1 suddenly broke out in places where it was not necessary, or places that are definitely not the worst. How does it combine with management-saving management? Don't you want to quickly spend money on this year's budget because the implementation of the projects is slow? Again, definitely an audit point or a parliamentary committee. D47. Minister, what is the up-to-date information in the resolution of the dispute between the State and the supplier on the damaged section D47, today D1? Can you guarantee that all your subordinates at the Department of Transport are personally working for the state? In the autumn of 2013, all support for litigation, obtaining further evidence, their completion, were allegedly not completed with planned drilling and chemical analyses prepared by the expert institute of Pardubice University were rejected proving that waste was used in the body of the motorway. Just enough to get someone to put in the lagoon trash. Do you know what happened at the time of the burning and transportation to Poland and beyond? By any chance, do you postpone the decision of the arbitration court in the case of improperly applied valuations? If so, I'm sure my colleagues will be wondering why. I presume here that there will be a special committee of inquiry requested by Mrs Havlová. Minister, you, too, are continuing a tragic non-relenting story called the D8 motorway through the Czech Central Mountains. I'm not going to mention the process of a generally known slide. But why isn't the slide being sanitized yet? What about the request for an emergency? Was it sent? Why didn't you use such a delay to declare a proper tender for bailouts suppliers? Can you confirm or disprove the information that the slide took place at a length of 800 meters and that it will need to be restored another 2.3 km, or maybe the 800 meters in that 2.3 km? I don't know. How much is this gonna cost? Are you preparing for a bailout? So when will the citizens of the villages with transit traffic in Velín and other motorways actually reach? I can only tell you that a long distance from the natural disaster will be difficult to explain for the use of free-handed procurement tools. You risk being charged with breaking the law. Minister, what's going on around the last section of the D3 motorway? Another potential topic for the investigation committee. You've declared your hardness to suppliers several times. If I'm not mistaken, the construction was put into operation in 2013, it was not taken over due to the number of defects and failures. But what was your ministry and ŘSD doing all along? If I'm not mistaken, it's not taken over to this day. Can you confirm or deny that an inflation clause is running in favour of the contractors? If so, who will pay the price increase for these inflation clauses due to the investor's liability? Summary for the potential investigation committee. The Ministry of Transport does not manage the legislative process, it is not able to defend the interests of the resort in the law on public procurement and the environmental impact of buildings. The preparation of new investments, especially in the field of roads, led to a state of total anarchy. There are serious doubts about defending the interest of the State in the case at issue. There are serious doubts about compliance with laws, in particular the Public Procurement Act. The preparation of the D1 reconstruction is not managed. Lands for new buildings are not bought out. Preparations were delayed, for example, for the construction system design bild. Conceptual intentions are not discussed in the Gestureary Committees of the House with the regions. Solutions are publicly announced that ruin long-term prepared variants. Prime Minister, the management of legislation, the chaos in the preparation of new investments, the unsolving of old problems where there is a threat of damage to state interests, the conclusion of controversial amendments to contracts. Where else must the situation take place in order to take forceful measures and allow the creation of an investigation committee today? Or are you gonna do them after the election rooms closed on Saturday? Prime Minister, perhaps the majority of the Members of this House have only learned from the media that you have approved strategic investment material in the next few years. Why don't you discuss these crucial plans first in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, in the House, with the professional public? Why are you ignoring regional political representation? Procurement to opaque companies. There is no need to mention this subject. The wine company informed the media about the case. I will just point out that the above-mentioned work is to be carried out either by SÚSky or by companies selected in regular terms which have concluded framework contracts. Before the arrival of Rusnokův's government, under anti-corruption measures, there were up to 3 million sublime contracts for direct contact. Then they were raised to 6 million. Now it's funny going on. Five companies used to be called today three. What is a relatively new phenomenon is that the preparation of constructions and the implementation of contracts is ruining the incompetence and incompetence of evaluation committees to decide. Situation in the preparation of tenders for the new electronic toll operator. Minister Prachař of the ANO movement took on a difficult task to catch up on delays in preparing the tender for the new electronic toll operator after 2016. So far, I've recorded words about the operator's transfer to ŘSD - but then why is the unit destructed? Then somewhere the Minister's opinion appeared that the myth would choose the Austrian ASFINAG. Minister, you have dealt with ASFINAG, you have dealt with Kapsch. What kind of chaos are you making? How do you intend to justify any failure to meet the deadline for a proper selection procedure? Do you want to sow the problems that the government led by social democracy directed once in the middle of the last decade? What's that consulting firm supposed to do for, like, 100 million crowns? Does he have an obligation to manage the tender? Search for framework, professional and political assignments? Doesn't the company make them themselves? [[12.00 hours]] What's with the appointment of the evaluation committee? In a crisis project, your vacation is more important than setting up a commission? How many weeks did it take you to understand that you can't lead the evaluation committee? Don't you have enough officials to handle the problem on your own? I guess so, since they're so devastated. In this crisis situation, why are you disrupting the competent authority, the relevant organisational structure on ŘSD? Why have you devastated the appropriate group for the transformation of ŘSD, which would also have something to say about the results and analyses and the work done? Would you make such an easy decision at your firm as well? You're gonna start messing around again to hit a dead end like you did in Kopřiva's case? Oh, my proboha. Summary. The Minister further deepens the time slip of the toll system. His steps are completely chaotic, apparently missing the elementary concept of the solution after 2016. The risk of economic losses after 2016 and the risk of non-conception decisions under pressure are increased. At the same time, the professional background for this issue at ŘSD is eliminated. Mr. absent Prime Minister, what are you going to do about it? I will comply with the President, I will not be here to read specific dances, such as the devastating preparation of the D3 motorway, and I will only touch a few topics from a variety of topics to the end. If anyone believes that the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař from the ANO movement has brought only part of the road construction into the state of anarchy, they are deeply mistaken. For an unprofessional approach that, in its consequences, will have more unnecessary money spent on the state register, I would say its interference with rail transport. In the spring of this year, he refused the offer of České dráhy to provide transport on the Plzeň-Most line for less than 30 million crowns. Instead, he announced a competition which was won by the foreign company Arriva despite failing to comply with the technical requirements of the contracting authority. After a few awkward steps of the Ministry of Transport it turned out that České dráhy will continue to ride on the line, but allegedly for CZK 36 million The only benefit of this step - in quotation marks - the Minister is the increase in the contract by more than CZK 6 million and shame and the time lag of three quarters of a year. Similarly, the Ministry of Transport behaved on the Pilsen-Most line in an incompetent manner. Grafikon 12 2014 to 12 2015. According to České dráhy information, extending ČD's liabilities instead of direct assignment would save about CZK 10 million against the current state. The saving is given by another method of calculation for the extension of the existing commitment. Arriva made an offer on this line only after it was submitted by the Czech Railways and started negotiating details with the Ministry of Transport. The price of the ČD offer was already known. Arriva allegedly failed again to comply with the technical and formal requirements of the Ministry of Transport. The minister said that Arriva would get the contract. After the ČD objected - what is the finals? ČD will run this track for CZK 41 million instead of the original CZK 28 million. Since we have the densest railway network in the world, it can be expected that the Ministry of Finance will not save on such behavior the Minister of Transport by buying cheap paper at the Ministry of Finance or by turning off lights in abandoned Ministry offices. In his interview, the President points to the lease - I think the President of Babiš - of ČD Carg's terminal hall, a joint-stock company, in Lovosice. Can you tell us, Minister, for which minister the idea was created this hall for hundreds of millions? If you allow the commission to proceed, let the people who have more alarming data express themselves here than I do. vážený Minister of the YES movement, it will be better. I would like to say that you are personally and politically responsible for the current road safety situation. In 2012, following the poor results of the independent department of the BESIP of the Ministry of Transport, there was a clear positive development of this entity. Gradually a quality team was built, defined by the programme of activities, a future concept of road safety management in the Czech Republic was established and the principles of strategic management of BESIP were defined. Gradually until then, it has managed to cooperate in an unprecedented way with the media, to acquire prestigious partners from among multinational companies. All of this led to an effort to significantly reduce the number of victims of road accidents on the Czech roads. BESIP can rightly report that last year there was a 12% reduction in the number of victims of accidents, which is the fifth best result in EU countries 28. As is known, in the last decade, on the contrary, in the number of victims, we have always been on the last place in the rankings of EU countries. The result was achieved despite the fact that BESIP worked with a significantly lower budget than it did before 2011. Following the new management of the Ministry of Transport, the activities of the BESIP began to be undermined and undermined. Minister Prachař could have corrected some of his predecessor's wrong approaches, but he did not. - Attention, everyone. I'm done. BESIP has cleared positions, ceased to play the role of natural leader in the field of traffic safety. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, you have certainly noticed in the media that the most tragic traffic accidents have been reported in recent months that the number of persons killed has increased by almost 10 percent compared to developments in the first nine months of last year. Using the certified methodology for calculating road traffic accident losses, it can be concluded that the increased number of serious consequences in the first nine months of this year brought social costs of 1.34 billion. Crowns. Minister, is this your bright future? Why don't you at least do something to minimize the consequences of human misfortune on Czech roads? Dear Prime Minister, Dear Minister prachař, Dear Lords of Ministers, Members, Members. I originally wanted to discuss only some things, but by my decision, the veto of the ANO and KDU-ČSL parliamentary club, you forced me to take an interest in the issue of the Ministry of Transport more deeply. I am shocked by the real situation that, for three quarters of a year, the management of Minister Prachař is. If you do not want the situation in this resort to be a total collapse, I believe that the ŘSD is in a state of collapse today, please appeal to your party leaders, coalition partners, to take action today, tomorrow, or well, after the election next week. I do not believe that this minister is able to continue to manage this resort. With each passing day, there is a risk that the total collapse will end in the recovery of large funds from Operational Programme 1 and that there will be collapse and significant problems, time losses of irreplaceable, operational programme 2. [[12.10 hours]] Please, I hope that I have said a sufficient number of things here, and it is only a fraction of the other things that I could talk about here, but I want you to give the chance to the other Members to speak to this, that it is entirely appropriate to set up a committee of inquiry, that quite rightly there is a call and an appeal to the Prime Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister, to call on Minister Prachař immediately. I think that you had such support in these unfinished elections, and you really are so strong that you can afford these steps without any political losses, and immediately the public will appreciate it, because this is no longer about political poking, this is about the collapse of one of the fundamental economic institutions. So, please, and please, too much: we, as opposition, are prepared to discuss in a matter of fact if you put in a minister or minister communicative. It has always been so in the past that if Members across the political spectrum in the Economic Committee understood that the Minister was putting his energy into this, his efforts, communicating, then everyone across the political spectrum in professional matters is trying to help. If not, then it ends like Minister Bárta's era by banging on the table with dramatic exits, banging the door. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for the long time that I have not pleased you here, but again I did not want to afford to invite 200 Members here, even though many of them have not come, with the fact that I will only bring in some political trash. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u11	I, too, thank you, and before I invite the President of the ODS to the microphone, allow me an organizational matter that I would like to take care of with this. At the request of the ODS, the House's management shall convene a meeting ten minutes after the conclusion of the meeting. So this is what we have done in organizational matters, and now, please, Mr Stanjure to the microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will try to be a little shorter than my colleague František Laudát. I just want to remind you that we're here because you refused to discuss this at the last meeting, and we were able to do it in another time when there were more of us here. I'm sorry there's such a small turnout, and I'm gonna try to describe some of the problems we're seeing. Maybe to lighten things up a little bit, the traffic department situation may be precisely illustrated by the current report that they're painting traffic signs on D1 today, and that's why they closed it for 30 minutes at noon. This is an up-to-date message from servers, and I think it clearly describes how conceptually we think things through. I would like to draw your attention - I will keep the ŘSD to the very end as a company that is in the worst condition - but I would also like to draw your attention to things that have not yet been discussed, which are very important for the operation of transport. Firstly, the unfortunate vehicle register - established in the past, but the solution chosen by the Minister does not solve the problem and postpones it. The Minister knows we're so pissed off sometimes that I tell him he's the master of delay. Maybe I'll just start by remembering that he said: by 31 August 2014, I will transform ŘSD into a state enterprise. It's October 15th. It's not. He also said: by 30 September I will appoint the new CEO of ŘSD. It's not! It presents to the government materials called opening up the railway market and, in fact, it is the closure of the railway market and the concreteisation of the current situation. CRV - Central Vehicle Register - thanks to the previous Minister, it should be said that he did not have time to write a proper tender, and the new Minister of Transport simply had to use the negotiated procedure without publication because he would not have managed otherwise. It's perfectly all right. However, the negotiated procedure is for 12 months with a six-month option, that is, for a year and a half, and because it is an over-the-limit contract, so if we are realistic, we will say that it will take about 10 months. And now I'm gonna forget that the winner has to get some time to implement. And look, we are in October, seven months after the contract was awarded out of the hands of one candidate - and I say it could not have been otherwise - and the new contract is not published! That means what happens in March 2015? The Ministry of Transport applies the option and extends the deadline by six months. The Minister has come up with a surprising solution after one of his foreign trips and says: we will use the Slovak system, it will not cost us a crown. I don't think that's true at all. First of all, today the Department of Transport owns the system, including the software source codes. If I have good information, the system supplier in Slovakia is not willing to do the same and suggests that in approximately 1.5, maybe 2 miles. The euro will be authorised and granted rights for operations in the Czech Republic. Now, aside from the fact that we decided here a few days or weeks ago to postpone the implementation of the new law, which will undoubtedly interfere with the central vehicle register. That means delay - no problem. I am sure that the provisional state will have to be used again and again for time reasons rather than putting out a proper tender in April or May or June to give the Minister at least five months to prepare the tender. It's October, the tender isn't written. The next thing I want to mention is ČD Cargo. Who remembers the debate on public procurement and, in particular, on sectoral contracting entities, knows that the debate is not at all simple, but surprisingly, and I would say that ČD Cargo is completely opposed to what the Minister is asserting, and suddenly the sectoral contracting authority is no longer. What does that mean? The Minister allowed ČD Cargo not to have to comply with the Public Procurement Act, and he can enter everything out of hand. This is the new transparency in the area of ČD Cargo. In addition to the violation of many European directives, procedures, etc. Sooner or later, we will be attracted and maybe sanctioned as the Czech Republic, but I do not want to appeal to Brussels. I mean, how is it that we're gonna make a point that the sector contracting authority isn't gonna follow the Public Procurement Act? The third thing I want to mention is the transport of yellow phosphorus. The Minister is laughing at it. I don't know what's funny about that! A particularly dangerous substance and according to all regulations must be transported in special vehicles. I'm not going to go into the details of regulations, etc. And look, the minister in the first instance - not in the second as an appeal body, when the minister sometimes has to make decisions - in the first instance he personally decided and granted an exception. Yes, he's a precedent. The last Minister Žák granted it, but that's no excuse. I refused to grant it because it is not for the Minister to make decisions at first instance. And I don't want to alarm anyone unnecessarily, but this extremely dangerous substance is being transported in wagons that do not meet the requirements and guidelines. Among other things, he drives through Přerov. I don't think I'm gonna comment on the case of beacons when I think there's actually a role mix-up. As a matter of fact, I have concluded from the appearance of the Minister in recent weeks that the key person who decides and is responsible for everything in the department is the head of legislation. So far, I thought he was the Minister of Transport. And I think that there is clear information from the Ministry of Transport that the one on whom the Minister is trying to bring it down drew attention to the problematic wording of the proposed change. But I think politically right is that when I push things, I'm behind it. And maybe I won't succeed, maybe the economic committee will tear it up, maybe the government will tear it up, maybe the House will tear it up, but the attitude that if it goes away, it's my fault, but if it doesn't go away, the officials screwed it up, I just don't think it's right. One of the things I've been talking about as the minister is the master of delay is the myth-tender. I think whoever's in it, who really understands it from the professional public, knows that it can't be done anymore. By 31, 12. 2016 we are unable to complete regular open regular management and introduce new or old-fashioned or any system under a new contract. Among other things, we have heard several times: the advisory committee will decide by the end of the holidays, by the end of September, next week. We're back on October 15th, nothing's finished. And the Minister knows that I am a critic of the existence of this public contract at all, because I consider it unnecessary. [[12.20 hours]] One of the pillars of the government in the field of transport is the Lining Construction Act. At least that's how the government presents it. According to the information I have at my disposal, the law, of course, or the substantive intention of the law, which is at the moment in interdepartmental commentary proceedings, was not written by the Ministry of Transport, but by an external firm. I don't think it's the right procedure for a key law to write an external company for the Ministry. And according to my information, it was selected on the basis of an order without a tender. I'm talking about the process, I'm not talking about the content of the material, it's for a different debate and for another forum. Then I would like to mention things that may not be so important at first sight, but where the lack of action or lenientness of the Minister is, in my view, completely unnecessary. You know, modeling traffic and watching is not an easy thing to do. [[unintelligible]] In our region, in the Moravian-Silesian region, the centre of excellence was created, the viaRODOS project was created, which makes significant use of the supercomputer available to them and which significantly provides information about the current transport situation. In 2013, when I was a minister, thanks to a memorandum concluded by the then CEO of ŘSD and Vysoka School of Mining, we launched a pilot project that was truly extremely successful. According to my information, the representatives of the project met several times with the Minister, the last time he promised to decide by the end of August to continue the project, because its financing is very simple. For the sake of clarity, the project uses about 130,000 passenger cars, which are monitored, whose movement is monitored, thus receiving up-to-date information, and about 4 million anonymous information from mobile phones. Really a task worthy of supercomputers, complex systems. Unfortunately, there is nothing going on, and the good qualities and the things that could support traffic management, the rapid response to the problems encountered, the crashes, the travel routes, are unfortunately not being used. And what I'm saying is that the amount that's needed isn't in hundreds of millions or billions at all, they're lower amounts in order. I think it's a shame, and I think it would be good if we made progress on this, and that project and a high-value added product from our public college were used to drive the resort. One of the things that may be more frequent than our motorist public thinks is driving in the opposite direction, which, of course, threatens a number of innocent drivers. And I must say that this system, which then also uses the National Transport Information Centre, helps detect such a situation. You may recall, a few weeks ago there was an extremely tragic event, when the driver was driving again in the opposite direction, there was a mass crash, unfortunately there were three deaths, and so on. The system worked, to be said, in time he detected the ride, the National Transport Information Centre processed the information, moved it to drivers, it was on the information board, informed by the Police of the Czech Republic. Yet there was an accident. And I think it is necessary to use other methods in addition to the standard police investigation of a car accident, for which there is a specialized company that belongs to the Department of Transport - the Centre of Transport Research. Among other things, it is a company that received awards within Europe in August as a company that has successfully devoted itself to security. And here again is the case where the Minister can use the order to carry out such in-depth investigations of these extremely tragic events directly out of hand, and again does not use that option. One of the priorities, I'd say, any government is a quick link project. We politicians like to talk about it, how excellent it is, how we would like to do it, and we do little for it. Notice I used the plural. I said us, and it is not just a one-way criticism from the opposition to the coalition, because I have long held that the Department of Transport is not a typical political resort. There the life cycle of the building exceeds two, three, sometimes even four terms of office of the House and I don't want to count how many governments can take turns or how many have changed in the past. Although the economic committee still led by President Urban at the end of 2012 asked the Ministry of Transport to do so, it lasted almost two years, and thus, as I said before, blame is on all those who worked during that period, but the contract was not published until this summer. I'm afraid it's all wrong. I'll try to give you some basic information. It was published in June by SŽDC with a single criterion - price. I do not think that when we decide on strategic issues such as quick connections, the price should be the only parameter. The deadline for the submission of tenders was 7 August, that is 66 days. What's happened since then? It's been extended three times, first by 12 days, then by 12 days, then by another 72 days. This means that at this point, the deadline for submitting tenders is set at 11 November and those who are professionally engaged in this issue are afraid that this is not the deadline. However, by February next year, we must hand over to Brussels projects that could be financed from the CEF, which is a different instrument, money other than the standard Structural Funds that we all know. It is evident that due to the delay of the Czech Republic no project can simply be submitted by February 15th. And the next programming period begins when? Seven years from now. So now we have quite a bit of time to study it. It is a mistake, a managerial error, and it causes delays in the Czech Republic in this important area. It doesn't give me a short description of the problems at the Road and Motorway Directorate. I certainly believe that this government will not accuse us, that we as citizens' democrats have joined the unions, influenced the union decisions and conspired against the government. I believe no one will believe it, even if one of those government parties says so. I and many others received an incredibly hard letter from all trade unions from the Road and Motorway Directorate, where they use such strong words as personnel genocide for Minister Prachař. I quote, the letter is available, it's not the opposition's position, it's the union's. I already talked about the manager selection. Employees, trade unions, the professional public and the opposition are convinced that the Minister is not at all able to manage the Road and Motorway Directorate on a staff basis. One example - with the great fame mentioned by the new CEO. He lasted there for four months, got an incredible salary of CZK 200,000 and finally got eleven salaries after four months. In four months, 2.2 miles. The crown! When I was minister for two months and paid the annual reward to the then CEO of ŘSD, I was subjected to a very hard interview. And that principal had 85,000 a month, and he got 120,000 a year's reward. This means that in four months Minister Prachař the selected CEO took more than the previous CEO in two years. And you name it and evaluate what anyone can do in four months. I have detailed data from the Prague plant, the most important race within the structure of ŘSD. Same case. People come, experts get fired, people come close to the minister and his loved ones, and they get incredibly high salaries again. In case any of you are interested, I'm able to prove it here. And those salaries are about 100 percent higher than the long-time employees who are leaving. So we were supposed to have the ŘSD transformed by August, but for a few more months, Minister Prachař in office, and there will be no ŘSD. Maybe it's the goal of building a new one and not having to transform, there won't be any employees, maybe just those who get 11 salaries in four months. [[12.30 hours]] František Laudát mentioned specific errors. Well, I'll just try to figure it out. The surrender of the possibility to charge a penalty for delaying the last invoice, or the last two invoices, which is a standard thing many of you know from city halls. When the supplier is late, there is a contractual penalty, so you simply will not pay him the last invoice in full or at all. You do the math, that's it. The S.O.D. voluntarily gave it up. The estimated costs of ŘSD are more than 200 million. The counterargument that it can be judged somewhere later, simply puts the state in a much worse position. The second decision - the termination of the work on the next section, that is, we will pay the preservation and more costs to the company about 100 million CZK. And I could say that's funny, because it's not funny, it's a contract to manage operations in the Pisárecký Tunnel when she got a company that has one employee. After the media pressure, the S.O.D. was canceled. But first there had to be media pressure. All South Bohemian Members, regardless of political affiliation, should ask the Minister why he does not act. In November 2013, next month will be the annual anniversary, the IOHS returned the contract on the initiative of one of the candidates for a new decision. Not for a new contract, for a new decision. 11 months passed, and nothing, nothing at all. The Minister said at the joint event, and I want to thank him, at the seminar we discussed the problems of financing transport and, in particular, road construction, he says: I have no people. Everyone's afraid they're gonna shut down. Yeah, but that's the responsibility of the Minister of Transport. That's what he said. I think maybe not exactly expressive, but that's how we understood him. But we're not gonna build highways because the minister isn't able to get people into evaluation committees? And how many times do we hear from top politicians: our priority is the journey to Austria. In South Moravia we will cancel the highway and in South Bohemia we will not decide about the highway. And we're going to go to Austria and we're going to say, "Dear Austrian colleagues, that's our priority." We just didn't make it. I don't have people here, there's trouble, so we're not building it here. About others, I would say lay interventions of type - and maybe these are good ideas, without quotes, but have a good idea at the moment of significant construction after years that the route will lead differently, so the correct message to citizens is: I have a good idea and the journey will be 15 years later. That is the only relevant message. And then Prime Minister Sobotka must intervene, who says, well, the Minister of Transport speaks faster than he thinks, the bypass Znojmo will be as planned. The R52 will be as planned. I suppose he will finally say at the Prague Circuit: The Prague Circuit will be on the route, as we once planned. All this, however, does not identify the professional public, delays construction and thus causes economic damage to the Czech state. And maybe the very end. I, when they asked me, when Minister Prachař came into office, the press asked me what I wished him. And I wished him to remain in office for his entire term of office. I have to correct my opinion. Although I wished him that, and it would be good for the resort if it worked well, I know at this point that it would be wrong for transport if it could last the entire term of office. Of course, you who have a majority, coalition MPs, can outvote us. I may have been performing for so long because I know that you will not approve of the agenda for this meeting, so there will be no proper debate, only we who have priority rights. That is why I may have also gone into unnecessary details, which colleagues could directly from those regions who know more than I do, how they are troubled by D three and inaction, how they are plagued by the Prague circuit. Because the Prague circuit, everyone who understands traffic, says: This is not a problem of the capital city, it is a problem for all of us that in the end we need to go around Prague in that direction from east to west or west to east. And unfortunately, there's been a great delay. The absent Prime Minister is mistaken, who alibistically says: This is not the Minister for the CSSD, this is Minister YES, and I had nothing to do with that. Well, that's a mistake. The Prime Minister is responsible for all ministers and one of which is the coalition party. No one's gonna take that responsibility away from him. Mr. Fiala and I had called on the Prime Minister or Prime Minister to make a personnel exchange at the department a few weeks ago. It was after the extempore with the R52. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister doesn't see it. Maybe even under the impression of the summer tour of ministries. The Minister and the Prime Minister had a press conference at the time. The Prime Minister was knocking on his shoulders like that, saying, "Everything works." Since then, it turns out it's not true. And the last one, but it's not a detail. PR department, František Laudát has already talked about it, works very well at the Ministry of Transport. In March, with great fame, the government was approved and presented material, which was named Major Transport Ministry contracts in 2014. And on the roads there are 15 major buildings in the material of this government, this Minister of Transport, so that three weeks ago the same government will approve another material of the Minister of Transport, which is called Major Constructions for 2015 and 2016. And, behold, what did not happen? Ten of the 15 buildings, which were announced for 2014, are suddenly announced for 2015. I was talking about some of them. D three was supposed to be built for months. But in that approach, and I am sure that this will be the case, in March or April, or in May next year, the government will accept material that will be named major transport constructions in 2016, 2017, maybe even 2018, and there will be the same constructions that we are not starting. And one more experience, really from the employees of ŘSD, and we have repeatedly pointed it out. The Minister had a commendable effort, and I note commendable without quotes, without irony, to improve the solution of the buyout. We pointed out that the solution he chose was wrong. That the objective is right, that the opposition has the support of this goal, but it does not have the right instrument. Let's all remember what the minister told us. We offer them eight times, and if they don't sign it by some point, four times. And if they don't sign it at the next time, double it, and if they don't sign it, we'll own it for them. First of all, the minister issued that announced methodical order where there's only one price left. We're going to offer eight times. Nothing's getting any lower. However, which means that new assessments will be made, delays will occur. Any sane landowner who gets this offer refuses. The minister imagines that if he refuses, he'll go to the expropriation office and he'll own it. Well, that's not gonna happen, because the law makes it clear that it has to prove that the state has done everything. And there's a number 16 in the law, not 8. The methodological instruction on expropriation makes no sense. That means, the only thing - I don't think it was the target, I don't want to suspect the Minister that it was the target. The only thing he's done is put it off and it's going to be 16 times everything, or it's going to be expropriated, but it's going to be 16 times that. So unfortunately, the poorly chosen method, the minister took it politically prestigious, instead of expert debate, arguments. Experienced people both from expropriating authorities, experienced people from ŘSD say that this is just how it ends. And when we suggested that we either return it to the state of the expert opinion, or that there be one number in the law, be it clear, we were rejected. However, we will all bear the consequences, because in a year's time, it will be written that the MPs have passed the wrong law. No one will, of course, take the job to find out what were the amendments, who supported them, who did not support them. Finally, I would like to say that we are aware of the political reality, we are aware of the unwillingness of the government coalition to discuss the problems. The reference to interpelation is pretty cool, except you won't know anything about the interpellation. The minister wasn't here once at the last meeting. And if we interpel, what happens? The parliamentary secretary starts running after you, and he keeps saying, "What are you going to ask?" What are you gonna ask? [[12.40 hours]] Well, we ask the same question all the time. The basic stuff. As long as it's done? When will the contract be signed and the toll contract announced? When does it start building on D-3? What's going to happen on D-1? And it doesn't make me really quit my personal priority. Have you noticed how quiet it is around the R35? Unfortunately, I noticed. Again we lose years and months on the key link between Moravian and Czech regions. It's the only, only reasonable way to make D one easier, either after reconstruction or before reconstruction. It's not happening again. But I did notice the Prime Minister's tour, the election, and it's pretty normal. He visited 27 Senate districts and named 27 priorities of the Czech government. By chance, he was always in the precinct he was in. From the Prague metro line D to Znojmo, which I was talking about, R52, D 3 and I could continue. And we, as citizens' democrats, say: if someone has 27 priorities, it means they have no priority and they don't know what to do with it. I ask you to support the agenda of the meeting to appeal to the Prime Minister to make a personnel exchange. We're not gonna mess with the sides. We want someone there to discuss transport with. And I want to say that if today's programme is not approved, next week we, as citizens' democrats, will propose setting up another commission, not an investigative committee, but a working one, which is what the Rules of Procedure allow. We have come up with the idea that we want to propose that there be nine representatives of the parliamentary parties. Because it's gonna be work, so we're not gonna propose a partnership, so two of the government's largest parties would have two of them. Then we want the other clubs to be there one by one. And we would like to invite two representatives from the academic sphere and two representatives from the professional public and in this forum, let's say within five or six months define the basic problems of the resort to transport and try to find a solution, because traffic really exceeds two or three parliamentary periods. So I believe that even if you do not support this program today, that next Tuesday, when we propose setting up a working committee, it will be about work, it will not be about functions, or influence, or voting on that committee to support us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. I'm registering a factual remark that I can't allow. I don't know if Mr. Laudát was wrong or if he wants to sign up for priority rights. I will ask him to endure because there are many speakers in front of him. So now I would like to see Mr Okamura's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, it must be said that when I heard about this extraordinary meeting that it would be convened, it was very surprising for me, if not shocking, that the ODS and TOP 09 initiated the call for this meeting. I'm sure I agree with the TOP 09 and Mr Kalousek that the House cannot resign from its control role and responsibility, not overlook somewhere total confusion and inability to manage and organize a resort through which tens of billions flow. But it is a real shame that Mr Kalousek of the TOP 09 and this whole party did not start investigating their secretary, Mrs Parkanová, whose inability to control the defense became proverbial and whose newsfinder cost us at least hundreds of millions, according to the information available. As far as transport is concerned, Mr Řebíček would most likely gain an absolute victory in the distribution of public money according to the information available. So when we talk about the investigation, we should also investigate the TOP 09 and ODS exponents in this context for the damage that this Republic appears to have incurred with their contribution. So the ODS should remember, for example, Minister Řebíček, who, like Mrs Parkanová, became synonymous with incompetence for the public and also synonymous with corruption. It's probably fair to say that traffic has always been stolen or overpriced. That is why our MP Olga Havlová and Dawn have initiated the commission for examination of highway 47, which we will be voting on here next week at the next meeting. It is evident that, perhaps always, or mostly, none of the ministers has ever effectively prevented it from stealing or corrupting or overpriced. In the third millennium, at a time when satellite systems are operating around the world to remind someone else, Mr. Šimonovský of KDU-ČSL has arranged for us an expensive and obsolete microwave system of toll gates and, given the absolutely non-transparable competition, when three of the four candidates were eliminated by the Ministry, it is clear over the sun that someone in the backstage has most likely had a fertile year. So if we're going to investigate Mr. Prachař's actions, why not? Public control is always needed, but let us say that we have other requests for investigation, and in my opinion, some of the representatives of past governments should be one of the first on the wallpaper. And now only very briefly on some of the points of criticism of the Ministry of Transport. This is, for example, an opaque tender for public contracts awarded by the Road and Motorway Directorate without proper tender procedures, often reaching out to only two selected companies or mysterious companies without history, and then granting them contracts "only below CZK 6 million" but over the last five months with a total volume of 2.3 billion and that is already in the sum of some money. Here it is good to realize that according to publicly available information, Prague's most problematic race is the Road and Motorway Directorate. My proposal is that instead of Members, these are most likely rigged orders directly by the police. Of course, it is not possible to ignore the anarchy that exists in the repair and construction of motorways. Only the blind can see that there is no one on the repaired sections of the highways at all, or there are four workers looking at one who throws gravel through a shovel. Last Friday I counted about ten abandoned construction machines on the Hradec Motorway just outside Prague and one, there was a worker in it, but he slept backwards with his head and it was 11.10 a.m. Without discussion, it is also poor quality and the cost of our motorways. I mentioned the particular example with the D47 here. Unbelievable, politely said, there is a mess, of course, not on motorways, but also on rail transport. On the one hand, the tracks are still in loss, but on the other hand, they are invested in overpriced trains and locomotives. A shining example from the past is Pendolina, which were machines as unsuitable for our tracks and, of course, already at the time of purchase obsolete, respectively. By the time they were deployed, they were outdated and overpriced. For billions we have also upgraded, in quotation marks, railway lines so that there is no going there more than 160 km per hour. So in the third millennium in the Czech Republic on the railway we reached the speed that steam locomotives reached at the end of the 19th century under Emperor František Josef, which is really smiling on one side, on the one hand absolutely trivial. So little would be enough to fix it. Start publishing selection procedures open to all interested parties from all over the world. If Američan can build highways in Romania, and cheaper than Czech companies, they might as well build in our country. I believe that Czech subcontractors could look out for better than our Directorate of Roads and Motorways or previous ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u15	I thank Mr Radim Fiala and please prepare Mr Schwarz, Mr Sklenák, Mr Laudát and then Minister Prachař. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, our media recently received a report or information that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka criticized Minister Antonín Prachař. Not to mention the purpose for which this meeting was convened by the ODS and TOP 09 Members. But we do not intend to go into the headless defamation of the Minister. We are interested in facts and not in your political games, my fellow Members. Therefore, I ask the Minister to present us all here with these facts. Dear Minister, I have a few questions for you. How is it possible that since the beginning of 2014, four people have been in charge of the Road and Motorway Directorate, and even the current appointed director, Mrs. Soňa Křítková, according to your words, has not been interpreted by the portal for a week. Is that the right person for this post? Who, in your opinion, bears personal responsibility in front of citizens for personnel instability not only at the Republican Directorates, but also at the Regional Directorates? Two. According to your words, Minister, there are still mistakes in the award of sublime contracts in the construction of roads and highways. When and who will solve this, and who will be personally responsible for the state of affairs? Three. In the most important competitiveness index led by the prestigious World Economic Forum in Davos, our motorway and road infrastructure is evaluated as the 81st in the world. This means that not only a number of post-communist countries, such as Croatia in 17th position, Slovenia in 37th position, Estonia in 54th place, and even Azerbaijan in 69th position, were ahead of us on the construction and maintenance of these roads. Before us is even the instability and terrorism plagued Pakistan to 75th position from 144. Laos, Ethiopia, Ghana, and Guatemala are also ahead of us. Such a tedious assessment exceeded even the overall decline of the Czech Republic in this category of competitiveness from the former 29th to today's 37th place. So once again, I ask you: When and who will resolve this situation? Who is personally responsible for the state of affairs so far? Four. The Ministry of Transport plans to start transport constructions for 233 billion by 2016. Crowns. It's planned for me. construction and completion of the South Bohemian section of highway D3, expressway R35 near Opatovice nad Labem, new section of motorway D1 between Přerov and Lipník or motorway D11 between Hradec Králové and Smirice. How is it possible that the official website of ŘSD lacks a study on the price of motorways from 2011, 2012 and 2013 in such ambitious plans? The study you have there is from mid-2011 and does not say anything flattering about the prices of our motorways. Less than 227 miles. CZK per kilometer of highway, according to this study, is a whole third higher price than is common in countries such as the Czech Republic. Denmark. That is why I ask: where are the numbers in recent years and what is the current trend, and what are you going to do about it? And five. Dear Minister, all of this is not your criticism or only yours. We know what a mess the previous governments have left behind in this ministry. We know how hard it is to really change anything when your neighborhood, maybe your Deputys, maybe other ministerial servants, maybe even some government colleagues, when your neighborhood doesn't want to change anything at all. However, we as Members and we as the public cannot help you in any way unless, after less than a year in office, you tell us what is actually going on in the Ministry and who is responsible for this situation and, if necessary, who is preventing you from changing anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u17	I, too, thank you, and now, please, to Mr Schwarz's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u18	Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, colleagues. I don't even want to talk like that. If I could - I don't know it so well - I would rather give room to the Minister because I have heard a specific thing from my colleague Fiala since this morning and now I think that the Minister should now be given the floor instead of me to respond accurately. Because it was a speech that I expected. I thought the election was over, so it'll be quiet, but I can't see peace, so I'm just gonna say what I'm sorry about. My colleague, Fiala, mentioned that this is not just a criticism of the Minister. I agree with that, because when I look at the list I've prepared here, you can see that this whole series has been the prachař down here since 1993 for only eight months. [[shows paper with names and dates]] So he was right about that. Then I'd like to ask, or rather, how I see it. I think this extraordinary meeting is kind of here today, too, because when it started to talk, that we could look at it in the form of an investigation committee at D47, and it started to say that it would probably be good, then suddenly someone is interested in making an inquiry committee at the entire Department of Transport. Very interesting, too. Then my colleague Stanjura here mentioned a very interesting thing, for me a smile that the committee of inquiry, if we don't approve the program today, already knows he's gonna want to initiate the task force, so I'd like to ask him through the Vice-President - he's not here - why the task force? Let him let Prachař do the work! He's the minister, don't criticize his personnel changes, just let him work! We don't have to have a working group and honor some people in the working group again. I mean, the Prachař's supposed to be working. I'm sorry that none of these people here said that they're sitting here, and they're written here that Prachař was the only one who started doing so-called at his ministry after 25 years. Single management. He's trying. Both with the EIA and not even with the functioning of the Ministry. That's very important. Then it's interesting, just bits like that, someone forgot that he started buying after that time. I'm moving around the Republic a little bit, but I know what's on the D8 on Teplice. And there they couldn't cope for long years, long periods of time, when the ground went down, what would be done. And after eight months, he gets shot at! I think, and I can see it, at least that's how I feel, even my colleagues, I suppose he just started tearing down something that's been building up here for years, but it's been building up for nothing. And I'd like to conclude by not stalling, just saying, please, prachař doesn't do it for himself and the voters, YES. He's doing it for all of us, so let's really let him work. Let's not set up any working groups, that's useless. Because he didn't get the time to show anything. And we forgot to really mention and repeat: the unified management that he started, the purchases that he started. And to me, he seems, or he's smiling, I can't say he's working with the officials he's had there, and when he takes a few managers to his place, which the minister has the right to do, it's as if he's stuck in a wasp's nest, that they don't have people who've been there for 25 years. Here they are, I'll show them again, written out, and they won't make the roads with them. It took so long. And finally, a guinea pig. You know, my colleague Stanjura, through the Vice-President, said that these people were afraid of being locked up. Please, not someone. I was also one of those who kept getting notices at the Road and Motorway Directorate. And when he told the truth that he was afraid of being locked up, I guess it's not kosher. But those are the people who were all there. And when he starts changing them to get things going, in the image of his minister, everyone wonders. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, and just for information, why Mr Schwarz was given the floor. He is the speaker of our club and also the vice-chairman and, in the absence of President Faltýnek, represents him. Now let me read a few apologies. The next enrollment is Mr Sklenák. Please be prepared. Mr Bendl apologizes from today's meeting on a foreign trip. Madam Secretary Válková has been apologizing since 1:30 p.m. from today's meeting. Mr Gabal apologizes from today's meeting at 12 o'clock for reasons of work. Mr Schwarzenberg between 12 and 19 o'clock for personal reasons. And Mr Kostřica for work reasons. Now, please, Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, about a year ago, the Supreme Audit Office issued its audit conclusion on the costs of construction of Czech motorways and express roads between 2008 and 2012. And I would like to quote from it: "The network of motorways and express roads should have been completed by the concept materials of the Ministry of Transport from the 1990s. If everything goes as it has been, it will be completed in 32 years and it will cost CZK 520 billion, which is 64 percent more than expected in 1999. This is due, among other things, to shortcomings in the conceptual and management activities of the Ministry of Transport. Since 2007, the Czech Republic has no bindingly approved medium-term or long-term conceptual material to define the priorities and urgency of completion of individual buildings according to available financial resources." So much quote from the end of the year-old control of the Supreme Audit Office. I can see that it's just a splinter in the complex mosaic of problems in the transport resort, but I mention it to make us realize who's really responsible for the situation at the transport resort. Which political forces they are. Of course, there is about more to the resort of transport than where else great inertia and it counts not for months, but for years. Under such conditions, we cannot change the course from day to day, and of course, every transport minister reaps the consequences of decisions made by its predecessors long and long before. That's no excuse for the present minister, but that's just reality. That is why I have to say that when I listen to my colleagues from the right part of the spectrum, I consider it to be a kind of toughness to want the present-day minister to be harassed in this way. When we look at the crowd of ministers in the previous governments, for example, I mention Mr. Aleš Řebíček and his billion-dollar contracts for Viamont, or in the last term of the Minister of Transport, Vít Bárta, it was the expert who apparently stopped with his decision of 27 built-up road and railway buildings. But okay, that's in the past. The subject of this moment is the issue of setting up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies in the Department of Transport in the field of public procurement. And I don't want to be untenablely loyal to the Minister. I appreciated the ANO movement's approach when drawing up the government, which declared that it would place a crisis manager on this post, who would gradually start to solve all the long-term problems of the resort. Unfortunately, I must say that Minister Prachař only fulfilled my expectations in this respect to a certain extent. Unfortunately, for example, on personnel issues, I would say that he directly followed the groveling of his predecessors. There are still other challenges - the announcement of the tender for the new toll system operator or the transfer of the assets of the Czech Railways to the Railway and Transport Infrastructure Administration. There was talk of it. It will be necessary to speed up the drawing of European money from current operational programmes. As far as I know, only two thirds of the total amount is provided. I see reserves in the preparation of the Linen Construction Act. It is a key law that will simplify the authorisation of transport buildings and speed up the construction of transport infrastructure, not only by giving jobs to people, but by attracting other investors, contributing to job creation and so on. Unfortunately, so far we have only a general substantive intention. But in spite of all this, I am optimistic, and I assume that the Ministry of Transport will be able to start dealing with all these matters by the end of the year, and I think that we here should do more legislative work after all. Since the Social Democrats here do not want to create some cheap stand-up in anti-campaign before the second round of the Senate elections, we will not support the agenda of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be mad at me, but what's wrong with being tough? I'm going to repeat myself to you here again, you're covering yourself - now I'm talking to social democracy, unionist, only when it suits you - I deliberately reached for these documents, not some tricky numbers, how much invested, not invested, I didn't blame the minister here, I don't know how it works, when constructions are accounted for in that year and so on. However, if anyone writes to you and signs Mr. Skoupil, the head of the union: There has been no such literally human resources genocide in the entire existence of our organization. There are smiling situations where employees themselves are searching for what section they actually work in. I just wanted, for example, the chairman of the Socialist Club to fail to fulfil the definition of Murphy's laws, as he clearly says: Optimist is a person who does not have enough information. We are not interested in anything else, we did not want to call a meeting, I wanted to place a point of discussion and point out that the situation is alarming. If it seems normal to you... Maybe you do. Then try going after the D1. I don't know if drivers and users are gonna give the truth to me or you. What virtual reality do you want to create in this country? Are you kidding people? Or I don't understand. To Mr. Okamur - the era Řebíček, TOP 09. TOP 09 didn't exist at the time. Memories know how coalitions or oppositions, I was more in a coalition in the economic committee, I was bitching about the state of highways, the state of roads, the tragically bad price policy. But which one of you really can come here and beat Mr. Prachař's head off with these flaws right now? He'll send you somewhere, too. And it's already happened, as far as I know. So please, everyone has the tools and options they have. And the rest is up to you. I think that, in addition to legislative work, we also have a supervisory function. If there's a clear threat to the collapse of a key state organization, chaos in key strategic projects... And we're supposed to keep our mouths shut? The voters say to the MPs, "You're the villains, you're the mobsters, you're the white horses of the mobsters." Please, we're responsible. Who's gonna take what from Mr. Prachař? I suppose the Prime Minister will come out here and tell you how he's going to deal with the situation. I didn't make up the date between the first and second rounds of Senate elections. I think that the tragic increase in tragic accidents on our roads over the past nine months is simply not an election issue. I don't want to play with this. I don't want to play with blood because of your Senate credentials. I don't want to! And please don't tell me that. Mr. Schwarz - working group. It turns out that if it were just those contractual obligations that may have been signed in the past by someone to sign the Opencard amendment for the transfer period, and the police were already there. I don't know if he's gonna care about that right now, because apparently somebody sent the state there - or obviously, they have to tell the lawyers and the CSIs - into a disadvantageous form. Well, if they start saving money, I don't know, then they don't have to be the MP's. If someone just says, "we're not gonna make legitimate claims, and then we're gonna have sex in court for another 15 or 10 years," I don't know. It's just that if the state gets into a unilaterally disadvantageous position, then I just don't know how else to deal with it. Either they will act on other institutions, or we as politicians are morally responsible for this, and we will become interested. [[13.10 hours]] I'm not saying that everything the Minister had in mind and wanted to do is wrong. I wish he could push through the construction of highways, roads, railways and so on. But he just has fantasies, but unfortunately, the reality of his own is failing. That's the problem. She's failing. He's failing, and he's failing with the consequences that now, if a real crisis manager gets in, but Mr. Prachař isn't a crisis manager, he may not be able to move on for another two years. What just happened out there is no fun. And whoever in the past has only bailed out failed construction projects, only conflict with legislation - I do it, I do it for a living. After all, Mr. Absent Hájek blamed me. So I know what a tragedy this is, how much money it costs, what a legislative surf, how much money you have to pour lawyers to handle the situation, and that's happening on D1 on standard simple constructions. If you are in the area of investment, you need to know what it means to stop without properly approved amendments. Oh, my proboha, you're breaking contracts, if you don't know. Laundry. I didn't know it was in such a mess myself. Of course, it was probably a tough speech, of course. But I'd like you to take the facts out of it. Material facts. And please, the fact that the Minister sends some people into the past, that they don't sort of conjure him, doesn't suit, that's perfectly fine, everyone's responsible. But if, professionally, in some departments or institutions, you destroy it in such a way that technological investments in railroads are decided by people who have probably never heard the word "recuperation" in their lives and are supposed to decide... You know, I don't know how to raise crocodiles, and I could never do that in my life. And I admire people who get up and out of a completely different business, from a completely different world they go and want to crash and now and immediately... I mean, the consequences can be tragic. Do you think we can pick up now and run the Temelín power plant? There won't be any Temelín on the road but there can be hundreds of dead, the same on the railroad. Do you understand that every major has some qualifications? And I just want to say that if you refuse a meeting, we think the public has a right. A TOP 09 will try to include a point of current situation in the Ministry of Transport at each next meeting. And you're gonna deny it when it gets so far, the union's gonna strike, the OPD1's gonna crash, the OPD2's gonna fail... Well, keep doing that. Of course, the media will tell you how great you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. And now Minister Prachař is duly registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u24	Mr President, fellow Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, I understand the concern of the right-wing opposition and some other political parties about the state of the Ministry of Transport, road infrastructure, motorways. What I don't get is the fact that these are the same parties and the same people who haven't done anything in 25 years in this country with infrastructure. I would just like to sit in the benches for the first time in the early last year's elections, and for those who have been re-elected, allow a short excursion and memory recovery. After eight years of right-wing governments, I inherited total decay, decimated personnel and conceptually. Infrastructure construction was stopped, projects were stopped and blocked, construction planning, land purchase. Instead of developing transport infrastructure, the resort was dominated by a group of people who were dealing with their own money lines. Impotence of the last eight years management of the resort crowns e.g. The absurd boasting of the recent right-wing government, headed by the Minister of Finance Kalousek, saved an incredible 11 billion in the 2013 budget. investment in infrastructure. On the contrary, I say that it was a tragic mistake of these 11 billion. do not invest effectively. Maybe I could sit in that office, do nothing, and also so-called. Save it. I would certainly have had more peace of mind today, with political proclamations, phrases with which my predecessors, so-called taxpayers, survived here for money. Right-wing politicians. To revive memory, let us begin by recalling the sad history that implies the fact that I stand before you here today. If it weren't for the endless series of corruption cases, the wasted billions and the total slendrianism of past governments, as far as the construction of transport infrastructure is concerned, I would probably never go into politics personally, I wouldn't have become a minister, and I probably wouldn't have even created the ANO movement. I absolutely agree with the President of our movement and the Minister of Finance that the most important thing started to be stolen here in the time of Topolánkův's government. The name Aleš Řebíček is synonymous with misuse of the position of Minister of Transport for private interests. The co-owner of Viamont Mr Řebíček, a member of the ODS, sold his shares in Viamont for 700 million before taking up his position, where he was from 4 September 2006 to 23 January 2009. In his claim for property in 2009, he reported assets of 342 million, thereby violating the law on conflict of interest. According to the media and available resources, his company received orders from 2007 to 2009 when he served as Minister of Transport for 10.4 billion. Let us just remember one of the beautiful examples - the bridge in Cologne for 1.3 billion, which ended in Brussels, followed by the corrections applied by the European Commission to the drawing of the budget in the Czech Republic. Who will remember the delivery of a dysfunctional IMIS management system for 1 billion? Other orders were received by companies that sponsored the ODS. Where was Mr. Stanjura at the time? Did it work? Why wasn't he screaming? Because, like Mr Řebíček at the Ministry of Transport, Mr Stanjura worked as mayor of the city of Opava, which paid for contracts to a certain company Eskon. In order for Mr Stanjura not to be in conflict of interest, he signed this company over to his wife. Where was Mr. Kalousek then? Wasn't he the Minister of Finance from 9 January 2007 to 8 May 2009? Why didn't he shout that the Minister of Transport was robbing the state of tens, maybe hundreds of millions? Because it was a friend of Prime Minister Topolánek. Some gentlemen here have a short memory and a very strong hippo skin. But from the field trip back to the transport resort. The Řebíček was enough to sue Transparency International for a $400-mile contract. external legal services. Which law firms were involved in the case and which political parties are linked to, everyone can find out from open sources. We also remember the case of Michal Hala and other managers who stole in millions. But no one talks about the responsibility of the then transport ministers. Today, at the Ministry of Transport, we are discussing Řebíčkův's heritage in the form of additions to Kapsch, which he secretly closed with the help of his super-substantiator Hodač during the time of the Minister of Transport for the ODS. At the same time, Řebíček managed to negotiate a contract with this company without open competition to build information boards for 4 billion. No one has done anything about it until this government comes in. For seven years, nothing has happened, and the right-wing government has covered up all kinds of business. A Řebíček that himself acknowledged that he was stealing too much and obvious, with a pocket of plentiful public money he went to buy Slavia. A rapid and unsystemic exchange of ministers began. Mr. Bendl, another ODS member who understands everything, from transport to agriculture to the sale of Central Bohemia hospitals, lasted four months at the resort. Then Gustav Slamečka joined, again the ODS nominee, to whom the Minister of Transport Aleš Řebíček, as Director of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, sent tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of fees per year. This close friend of Marek Dalík, Tuscan sailor Mirek Topolánek, lasted 14 months at the head of the resort. During this time, the toll increased to avoid the trucks by highways, the Czech Railways extended the monopoly to 15 years, which is now blamed on me. Former Minister Slamečka prepared a system of memoranda on ensuring the financing of services in the public interest in long- and regional rail transport. During the entire period of the reign of Petr Nečas, the ministers of Bárta, Šmerda, Dobeš and Stanjura, however, this memorandum was not respected or only partially respected. Inflationary clauses were not granted. This contributed to the destabilisation of the financial situation of the Czech Railways and to the deterioration of its debt. [[13.20 hours]] Once again, I have no choice but to pause over how short the memory of the ODS masters is, although I understand that this party would like to cut itself off from its former members and ministers. I do not know whether it is worth mentioning the tragic data of Vít Bárta of Public Affairs, for information on 13 July 2010 to 21 April 2011, and his faithful, who enriched themselves with taxpayers' money in the coalition government of Mr Nečas of the ODS. Few remember that 17 percent of ministerial officials were fired after his arrival. The fluctuation of employees at the Ministry of Transport for its management reached 30 percent. However, he did nothing but rushing into procurement for dozens of party comrades. On the contrary, he stopped all the buildings and projects so that Mr Kalousek could show how he could reduce deficits. Why didn't ODS and TOP 09 scream back then? Because it was about preserving their government. In this context, it is also necessary to mention the work of the first Deputy Minister of Transport, Lukáš Hampl, who, first as Chief Executive Director of Minister Bárta, stopped the preparation of the buildings, to push investors as quickly as possible to prepare and complete the OPD in two years' time as the first Deputy Minister. Nečasův, by constantly reducing the funds of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, even by co-financing the buildings of the Operational Programme Transport, the government continued to deepen this deficit. So what went well, in quotation marks, was the purchase of a new vehicle register for 27 million, Mr Stanjura here talked long about it, for which Mr Bárta did not draw up a tender and which collapsed in 2012 for several months. Then it was proved how Mr. Bárta's company worked. By the way, Kalousek's Kalouskův, who watched and recorded everything, didn't mind Mr. Radek Šmerda becoming minister in two years. After that, Pavel Dobeš took over a member of the rapidly formed LID Party, who paid for a dysfunctional register and a connection with the infamous Karolína Peake. Do you remember this time? Was the Department of Transport in better shape then today? I understand that in the constantly collapsing government of ODS, TOP 09 and Public Affairs each minister had rather a maintenance function, especially when roads were not built, investments were stopped. Zbyněk Stanjura, 12 December 2012 to 10 July 2013, became Minister of Transport only because he was the last ally of Petr Nečas in ODS. His misguided seven-month mission once again had only a maintenance character. Minister Stanjura was elected on 6 December and did not come to the Ministry of Transport until Christmas. There are records of this. Where was he for 14 days? Just as I am today, he was criticized for the slow repairs of the D1 motorway, although it must be said that they were then carried out on an disproportionately smaller scale. Today we are catching up on the legacy of these poorly planned repairs. Mr Stanjura has deepened chaos and delays in the legislative work of the Ministry with his idleness and constantly changing decisions. He stopped offers on PPP projects of the D3 motorway to České Budějovice. How did he handle a malfunctioning central vehicle register? He solved it by entering it without a tender from the hands of ICZ, including a private part of the vehicle register. The preparations for the connection of the EUCARIS system, which allows and allows searching for data on registered vehicles from other Member States of the European Union, have been fully suspended. Those are the problems he cooked and left behind. I do not know if Mr Stanjura, in his analyses and studies he had done in the field of myth, has ever found that the 2009 European Directive ordered the Czech Republic to introduce an electronic myth service within three years, from 2009 to 2012, 9 October. I have to say sadly that nothing has happened during this period, and now we are catching up on the deficit we have, and we are getting notice from the countries of the European Union that the Czech Republic has done almost nothing in implementing the European electronic myth service. Today, Mr Stanjura criticizes the delay in the tolling process. This inheritance of the last eight years and eight ministers, when the construction was only chattered about, but nothing was done for transport in the Czech Republic, as a former owner of a transport company, a man from practice, took over at the Ministry. The situation in the resort and skeletons in the closets in the form of a rolling D47 motorway with damaged bridges, stopped construction of roads and motorways, non-existent projects, problems on D8, unbuilt land, continuation of the D11 motorway and around D3 unwritten or poorly run tender contracts, awarded several times by the Supreme Audit Office, delayed or poorly prepared legislation, for example on conditions of road traffic, or absolute slendrianism in the preparation of the Railways Act, systemic errors in the drawing of capital resources - all of this, including people in the Ministry's administration and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, I inherited after these trivial eight years and eight ministers. I never complained about it. I started looking for competent people who would be willing to carry this crazy and stolen inheritance with me. Believe me, it's not easy. We're restoring the transport resort from the smoldering debris. Perhaps I should also mention the last idea of the government of Petr Nečas to join the Ministry of Transport with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I guess it was in such a state that it might be easier to do this and cover up the trail. Like they're accusing me today that I don't want to transform the Road and Motorway Directorate. Let us be glad that such an idea did not work out, that the government ended before it could finish this terrifying idea. Unlike my predecessors, I am not afraid to name the problems of the resort and, above all, to finally solve them. I'm not sure I should be advised by parties who were directly involved in the collapse of the resort or who were shutting their eyes to preserve the government. For the sake of illustration, only the ŘSD contracts from 2006 to 2013, administrative offences from dubious tender procedures, the failure to properly implement the buildings in deadlines and to stop the breach of budgetary discipline are already awarded by the Financial Authority and the Office for the Protection of Competition by payment notices and fines of more than 7 billion. Crowns. The estimated additional ones, for which we are still trying to save cost recognition and budgetary discipline intact, may be worth an additional 5.5 billion. The limited obligations of the supply companies to return the collected money for the messed-up work are close to 1 billion. This is in a nutshell the state in which the Department of Transport left right-wing governments with their irresponsible and possibly deliberately thieving direction. What did we do in eight months? I don't really know how to talk, I don't even want to brag about what went well in the resort, even though I'm convinced that this has been done more than any minister I've ever named here. It is, of course, my duty to the Department of Transport and, at the same time, to all citizens of our country, to give a brief list of some achievements. In a short period of eight months and under difficult conditions in full operation we started to solve serious problems from the past and we also started work and performance of the resort again. Its renewal will still take some time, yet despite the difficulties described, thanks to a number of high-quality workers at the Department of Transport managed to achieve success in a number of areas. In the field of legislation, we have developed, submitted and defended the draft amendment no. 416, on speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure. Why did the right-wing governments accept it in 2009 and set such a low price to buy land that led to incredible delays in expropriation procedures and meant the abolition of many previously proposed contracts? After almost two years of incompetence, we can again accelerate property-legal preparation, which significantly limited the completion of the preparation of key projects. We were able to process and submit a proposal for the substantive intention of the Line Buildings Act in early October, for 25 years there was no such thing, which will significantly simplify, accelerate and make the construction of key line constructions of transport infrastructure more effective after the approval of the government and the approval of its follow-up Act on Line Buildings next year. At the same time, it will save significant funding for the state budget, or allow it to build significantly more buildings and faster for less money. Finally, the Ministry of Transport actively participates in the preparation of the amendment to the Construction Act by the Ministry for Regional Development, as well as we communicate significantly in the enforcement of the Public Procurement Act. Mr Laudát, it occurs to me that we do not have the Public Procurement Act, that everything is delayed. He probably didn't realize in his speech and euphoria that this law was in the Gesture of the Ministry of Regional Development, not the Ministry of Transport. Our aim is to promote a single integrated authorisation with one appeal, one judicial review according to the obligations imposed by the European Union and to make the problematic areas in the preparation of construction more effective. [[13.30 hours]] Work on the new Railway Act has been taking place at the Ministry of Transport since 2012. In March 2013, Minister Stanjura stopped his work on a material project that was 80 percent complete, and instead ordered him to quickly create alternative material that had no support in the legislative rules of the government, and none of the top officials of the Ministry of Transport disputed it effectively. In doing so, Mr Stanjura caused a significant delay and complication of the entire process. This alternative material was further unusable, and due to time it had to be finally accepted instead of a new law only to a large amendment to the Railway Act, which the Ministry of Transport department completes and submits to the government by the end of November. Here again, you can see how we are catching up in the vast timeline of solving problems caused by incompetent ministers in recent years. It is proverbial that these are the same persons who are screaming the most out of opposition benches today. I will now continue with more positive news. We continue to invest in the development of transport infrastructure. In the field of waterways in 2014 after a long period of inactivity, new projects were completely reconstructed by the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and the Ministry of Transport. Currently, projects are being implemented for more than one billion. It is a modernization of the lock chambers Brandýs nad Labem and Velké Osek, which were in an emergency condition. I will not forget the port Hluboká, the port Petrov or the significant completion of the Vltava waterway in the section of the waterworks Hněvkovice-Týn. Public contracts that were previously targeted by the Supreme Audit Office at the Directorate of Waterways during the era of my predecessors are conducted transparently and in accordance with the law. An analysis of previous feasibility studies and their sub-stages of the Danube-Odra-Labe channel has also been completed, which will allow a feasibility study to be commissioned to the extent that the selected processor will not have to examine already investigated. 43 of those studies were commissioned during the era of my predecessors. In the field of railway transport at the Railway Infrastructure Administration we continue to release resources to prepare so-called. replacement projects of the Transport 1 operational programme, where the amount of funding has increased considerably to cover the preparation of actions against the previous period. Many sections are being implemented as part of the effort to complete the completion of transit railway corridors. You yourself are witnessing, there are announcements in the media, when we close the partial parts of the highway, especially during the night and weekend, so that we can install new bridges that are part of these railway corridors. Most technical studies of high-speed lines are completed for the possibility of an objective study of opportunity, which should confirm, stabilise and further direct the Railway Infrastructure Administration to further real and meaningful preparation of these new lines. What Mr Laudát has said here is that this is being shifted back to November - yes, I have some additional comments on individual processors and we want to have material that will have absolute explanatory ability, and this material will be completely complex. We've simplified the processes inside the resort. We have done an optimization of the organisational structure of the Directorate-General of Railway Infrastructure Administration. I canceled the unnecessary position of the first Deputy Director-General, the departments under his control were transferred to the governing powers of the Director-General and other Deputy-General. The work of the Central Investment Commission of the Ministry of Transport has been intensified, which finally meets and discusses documents both the Railway Infrastructure Administration and the Waterways Directorate as well as the Road and Motorways Directorate once a week compared to the previous meeting once a month. The biggest problems, however, were the road transport sector. Here, despite the complex personnel situation and emptyness, we see tangible, significant progress. Finally, there is a functional section of road construction at the Road and Motorway Directorate. For all the buildings that were to go into tender this year, the tender for the contractor managed to at least start, in selected cases to complete, or this will be done by the end of the year. As far as repairs are concerned, a decree has been enforced, which makes it very easier to authorise road repairs where a building permit is necessary, which has enabled the reconstruction of comprehensive sections of motorways, express roads and first-class roads to be started to an unprecedented extent. Anyone who moves around the Republic by car must see this. Never worked on the D1 highway at night, Saturdays and Sundays. I would like to apologize to drivers in this way, but repairs after eight years of inactivity by past governments are essential and their scope can complicate the traffic situation in many places. In the years 2011 to 2013, selection procedures for contractors of major buildings were not practically launched. The selection procedure for actions above 200 million was launched in total 11 over three years between 2011 and 2013, of which two were cancelled. At the same time, new trading conditions have been created during our era, which have undergone major changes on the basis of a huge number of queries in the selection procedures for contractors and modernization of the D1 motorway. Since my incompetent predecessors have practically stopped the opening of tenders, there has also been a change in the construction market and the tender offers are well below the estimated value of the contract. As a result, this leads to major problems in the evaluation of tenders, in particular from an disproportionately low price point of view. The constructions for which the contractor was selected in 2009 were not able to be started in the long term. Crab constructions. Under my leadership, most of these buildings were able to start by signing amendments to the contract, in which the contractors provided quite significant discounts from the already discussed valorization here. These are constructions of roads I/27 Velemyšleves, buildings Osičky - Hradec Králové, I/9 Dubá, bypass, R6 Lubenec-Bošov and gradually the remaining constructions are being prepared for launch. Finally, new selection procedures for contractors are being launched today. In 2014, 10 tenders were already launched. In the years I mentioned here, 11 of them were launched, two of which were canceled. In 2014, 10 tenders for the contractor of the construction were over CZK 200 million, which is the same volume as in the last three years. At least three more contracts are planned to be published by the end of 2014, e.g. other constructions on the D3 motorway. At the same time, a large number of orders are being prepared for 2015. We talk about up to 31 contracts with estimated value each over CZK 200 million. This is a huge step forward after a period of inactivity and the inability to abolish the marasm that right-wing governments have created in the transport sector. I'll keep going. The construction of long-awaited new buildings - road I/11 on Třinecku and other new buildings on the road of first class Staňkov - Červenohorské Sedlo south. Tensile studies are processed and approved by a large number of express roads, which legitimize further project preparation on the basis of a proof of economic efficiency, an essential condition for financing from the European Union, the national resources of the State Fund. Tensile studies are approved for R3, R6, R7, D11/R11, R35 Opatovice-Mohelnice and R48. Just before approval is on R35 Hradec Králové - Jičín, R52 northern part. By the end of 2014 all tensile studies will be completed and approved - remaining R4, R49, R55 southern part. Dozens of updated projects for individual constructions are approved, again on the basis of a proof of economic efficiency, which is necessary for further legitimate procedure in the preparation of constructions. Gradually, general agreements are concluded with civil engineering network administrators on cooperation in the preparation and implementation of constructions in the field of relocations of civil engineering networks. The wording of the terms and conditions which are no longer conflicted between tenderers and tenders shall be aligned. [[13.40 hours]] The Directive has been enforced The Directorate of Road and Motorways for greater detail of procurement documents, which should lead to less changes during construction and to a reduction in the risk of unappreciable expenditure. The programme for the possibility of road repairs II is finalized. and III. Class in 2015 from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. I am the first minister who, instead of ordering for friendly companies, pushed through aid to the regions to repair roads II. and III. classes in the form of financial support from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. The methodological instruction will be completed in the course of November. It clearly sets out how they will be pumped in the new construction season. Work on approved projects will be able to start from March 2015 and we are preparing to allocate 2-3 billion. Crowns. Speaking of road transport, let's not forget the myth. It is a problem of complicated contractual amendments concluded under the Řebíčkův dictatorships. Today, the selection of the project manager is completed to ensure the work necessary for the continuation of the selection of the toll after 2016 in the form of an open competition without the need to enter Kapsch in a single procedure without the publication of an extension of the existing contract. Finally, we are discussing, as I have already mentioned, the transposition of the European Electronic Myth Service Directive, left by previous governments. We've been dealing with this for five minutes after 12 o'clock. It's a miracle the traffic in this country hasn't collapsed yet. I would like to mention briefly the results that we have achieved in the field of public transport. The financial framework for the provision of rail transport has been stabilized; in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, funds for regional rail transport have been secured in line with the already cited memorandum of 2009. Although no subsidies on inflation were paid in breach of the agreements, the inflation increase for long-distance and regional transport for 2014 and 2015 was achieved, i.e. both the state and the regions will not be forced to reduce the scope of the rail transport ordered in these years. We have enforced the order of public services in long-distance rail transport for the 2014/15 timetable. During the preparation of the order, the scope of the transport was stabilized in the course of negotiations with ČD, the order of new trains was introduced and some express trains that had been cancelled in previous times. The government approved a gradual plan for the liberalisation of public rail transport services. By its resolution of 15 September 2014, the Government discussed material on the process of opening up the market for public passenger transport services, in remote transport and approved a further liberalisation procedure. At the same time, the railway transport sector was stabilized by defining part of the market, which does not expect the provision of services to the Czech Railways in the near future. Who used to push it to get the government to approve? These steps were just populistly babbling about how the competitions were. Mr Laudát here mentioned the line Plzen-Most, he was probably wrong, which was the subject of the competition. It wasn't! There was no contest for that. Arriva asked the Railway Infrastructure Administration in March for capacity allocation and offered to the State without any competition, just as they offered the Czech Railways. We evaluated these offers, asked for a supplement and also sent a draft contract. When we compared the next round of these offers, we found that Arriva only submitted an offer until September 20th or September 30th - unlike České dráhy, that Arriva has one less seat to occupy in its vehicle units and that toilets do not fit for use for handicapped people. Based on this and the recommendations of experts from the Ministry of Transport and the Commission, I decided that this one-year contract should be awarded to the Czech Railways, a national carrier. A new Decree on timetables in public regular transport was also issued. This decree adapted the process of approval and the form of processing of timetables for the development of public service orders to technical progress in information technologies. In line with the requirements for openness of public administration, it also addresses the issue of publication of timetable data. And this is probably not worth explaining to the ODS and TOP 09, because they never even considered the openness of public administration. As the first Minister of Transport in history, and it was also stated here by the opposition, I decided not to take over buildings that were not handed over to the contractor in accordance with the parameters of the contract. Unlike previously declared solutions to the construction, we claim, sue, judge, insist on fulfilling the business conditions. We don't take any bakshish for taking on poor-quality works. Due to the inactivity of ministers Řebíček, Bárta and others, we have the biggest problems here. I would like to briefly mention what has already been said here. During the reign of Minister Stanjura, the failure to bring courtsuits in the area of valorisation on the construction of D47 was probably caused by the limitation of one billion that supply companies should return to the state. Nowadays, I have four court judgments where it is an obligation to pay back the amount of money. At the same time, it is stated that some amounts have been withheld. After the discussions, we were able to resume the investigation of the police for corruption suspicions with the construction of the D47 motorway, which the police permanently refused. Today, the anti-corruption police forces in Ostrava have reopened the proceedings. Mr President, Madam Government, Members, I could still speak for a long time, but I really am not used to it. I'm used to doing something. I do not remember that extraordinary meetings would be convened in the House when the ODS ministers under control and with the contribution of the then Minister of Finance brazenly stole and distributed contracts without tenders. But that was not because - because it was quite common in their governments. As long as I am the Minister of Transport, and I am not going to resign in any way, the restoration of the Department of Transport will continue, including for some of the perhaps unpleasant steps that reveal how badly past governments and past leadership, including the Directorate of Roads and Motorways in the Department of Transport, have managed our country in the past. Minister Stanjura said what beautiful and good experts he had at the Road and Motorway Directorate. Perhaps it would be worth telling the Chamber of Deputies - Mrs Pošvářová, who was also mentioned here, worked on the section of control and quality of the Road and Motorways Directorate, was a member of the property commission for D47 and, at the same time, received orders from Mr. CEO Čermák as a self-employed person for the processing of opinions. Maybe that's what the committee should be dealing with. And I fully support the motion of the Dawn Movement to set up the D47 Commission. You need someone to finally say who's responsible for all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, Minister. I have here a factual remark from Mr Laudát. [[Unable!]] Sorry. So I'm gonna erase it with Mr. Stanjura reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u26	So I'm not gonna be the one saying he's not used to talking, and he's talking for 50 minutes, so just in short. I think the Minister, at least in my eyes, is sorry that he didn't write it himself, that he read it all. And it bothers me that he is unable to answer specific questions and specific suggestions face to face. I'm not gonna defend the period when I didn't work there, and I don't even want to defend the period, other people have to judge that, and unlike the minister, I'm not gonna say that I'm the only good guy, and the others were incompetent, and now he's coming as a savior, and he's gonna do it all. I think it's evaluated by the professional public, and anyone who wants it can talk to them and ask how they evaluate how they operate in individual years or months. But just for the record, the guy who was planning this for you made material mistakes. First of all, the Minister is not elected, the Minister is appointed President of the Republic. [[It's drawing.]] It draws - we're not there yet. Perhaps there are lots of adepts on some sides. And it wasn't December 6th, but it was December 12th afternoon. December 13th, right, I wasn't at the Department of Transport. I would ask that the ANO Members don't knock my time. I don't know what he's talking about, what time he's talking about. If you're in a hurry, you can go through the Vice-President, otherwise please sign in. You don't have to knock on my watch. There's no time. If it bothers you that it's 13.48, that's your problem and you don't have to sit here. You're here voluntarily. So that was December 12th, when I was appointed, and it's true, as the Minister dramatically said here, that I didn't come to the Ministry of Transport on the 13th. Why not? Because there were interpelations! I was a minister for the day, and I had six interviews. And imagine, I didn't hide, but I was in the Chamber of Deputies trying to answer, or at least to promise an answer to things that I couldn't, of course, be informed about, and on December 14 there was a meeting where the laws were and where I just stayed as an MP. So I wasn't even at the Department of Transportation on Friday. And I've been there since Monday. But that's a detail. [[13.50 hours]] I'm not going to serve the fucking clock to Minister Prachař here, just like he doesn't have the I.D. when he was there. That's just childish. So it wasn't the sixth, it was the 12th. I was minister for six months in government with confidence, and then for a month we worked in demise. And I think it's logical that in demise, every normal politician doesn't make any strategic decisions, just the office keeps going for six months. We've made it clear that we're late for all kinds of things, and we've abstained from personal attacks. Whoever wrote you this used lies, personal attacks and insults. And it might surprise you. I'm not going to do that. I don't think the resort is really political, that it's more professional, that we need to find a match here. You didn't say anything about the D-3 why 11 months. My colleague Schwarz - I don't address him, my name is only - he wondered. I quoted the Minister. I don't believe it's possible to call a committee and decide. But that's what he said at the seminar, that he doesn't have people, that these people are afraid to come and make decisions. And I'm not happy about it. Besides, unlike the Minister, I don't think the Minister is supposed to run everything. Note the form: I canceled the Deputy at SŽDC, I published a methodology program in ŘSD etc. The only thing we're really different about is that I didn't make hasty personnel changes after I joined the Ministry. He wasn't. I inherited all the managers, tried to define new tasks, new approaches, some understood it, but in such a short period of time it wasn't even reasonable to approach these personnel changes. And I wouldn't mind if the Minister made one personal change, that's perfectly logical at all after the start of the new government, and at the moment the journalists asked me to comment, when the leadership of the Czech Railways changed, the leadership of the ŘSD, so I said: the minister has every right to do it and I will evaluate the leadership by the results, I will not say in advance whether it is good, it is good, it is good or it is bad or it is bad. The problem is that the personnel changes are going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on about the fact that something was wrong in 2007. And I'm not defending that year 2007 or 2008, nor was it the subject of negotiations. Interestingly, others here have been called to speak to the point, and the Minister has read a prepared speech or a written speech that was not to the point. But so be it. All I'm saying is, if you want to quote the facts, let these people stress the facts for you. Maybe two more notes. I didn't order any myth studies. I found out it was all ordered, I didn't spend a penny. On the basis of the information available and processed by my predecessors, I prepared the material for the government to decide. If someone ordered bad service, they were different. I thought we had enough material, and I still think so, and that's why I criticized the existence of the new advisor contract. And those fairy tales - and I'm saying it with a smile and a good one, and I don't want it to be critical - the fairy tales about the railroad bill, I'm not going to burden the Chamber of Deputies. Those who are responsible for these delays, the Minister kept them there, they didn't trade them, and as they tried to get me drunk with a roll, as they worked hard for two years, now they've been working on it equally hard for four years. It's the same guys. I'm not going to name them here because I don't think the minister should blame and blame the officials. Either he's gonna clean up at the resort, and then he's responsible for what the office produces, or he's not, and there's no point in saying, "This clerk wasn't good or he was bad, something like that." So, Minister, next time I ask you to stick to the debate, forgive yourself for the personal attacks, the lies and the untruths. I'm not gonna give it back to you like that, I'm not used to arguing like that. It's about the thing. And I can be wrong, I'm not saying I'm right about everything. I was just pointing out the problems I saw, and I wanted to be at the last meeting, now at this meeting, to discuss the problems. And if I criticized you, then not as a person, your character qualities, your competence, your incompetence. I criticise concrete steps and concrete solutions. For example, with the purchases - yes, time will tell if our concern that the chosen method is wrong is fulfilled or not. Maybe it won't come true. But we had the same goal. I wasn't criticizing the target, I was criticizing the method you chose, and if a year later it turns out that the method you pushed through - and I said that here, not that I was denying you any credit - will prove to be functional, then, of course, I will admit it in the debate. There's no reason for me not to admit it. I'm not happy about it. And I'm gonna end up doing what I said in the beginning. After your appointment, the press asked me what I wished you. I wish you lived as long as possible in that term of office. So it's not personal attacks, it's really a matter of concern, and I tried to avoid personal attacks today, and I could also name them, I could broadcast poisonous arrows and stuff like that. Everyone according to their nature. You chose this method. In my eyes, it excuses you that someone wrote it to you because obviously with some expressions or some pages you heard for the first time and you had a problem reading it at all. Next time, I would ask that we debate factually in order to make arguments, and we will see which argument will be chosen. But there's one thing I have to mention. We'll be celebrating 25 years from the anniversary of the revolution in a few weeks. Your interpretation that nothing's been done in 25 years just doesn't match the truth. I don't want to excuse mistakes, misconceptions, or robberies that have happened. I don't want to, and I won't, let those who did. [[unintelligible]] It's perfectly all right. But the interpretation that nothing's been done here in 25 years just doesn't correspond to reality. And I know you know that, too, but it's just politically useful for you to say something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your contribution. And now, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Only a few things Mr Prachař answered, he did not answer the vast majority of questions. Therefore, consider again whether they should be examined in any way. The fact is, the extent of the trouble in the transport department is that who knows if it's even on the investigation committee. I also did not call on the Minister to resign 14 days ago, however, if nothing else - and the Minister here took the ERÚ, Minister Řebíček, from one of the waters. He brought the supposedly 12 people there, maybe a little less or more, I don't really have access to any personnel databases - but then it would be quite interesting, they're not there again. Why? Many of these people were from that era of Mr. Řebíček. They worked there or worked at the Department of Transport. One thing. Second thing. When the minister says it was all a disaster, I ask why he gave a package of contracts to the government in March -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u29	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask my colleague and colleagues to lower the sound level in the room so we can hear each other. Thank you for respecting that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u30	Thank you. ... in JŘBÚ mode, and if you know, he's involved with the entire government today, and it's a publicly available source. In JŘBÚ you can simply choose who you give it to. So why did the company from which the personnel lead steps to a certain, perhaps the most tilted person to whom the media labeled the godfather? I'm a long way from saying godfather because the court hasn't tried him yet. So these are things. It's just the opposite of what the minister said. And aside from everything, well, the world doesn't go crazy, we don't build highways, virtually. The republic, the economy is worse off, it's gonna blow, but for God's sake, why are you keeping a minister there, under whose governments, from my point of view, have dramatically grown the most serious car accidents? Doesn't the blood on the roads move you anymore? I've given you clear numbers here, a clear definition of economic damage, which is a bit of narcissism in light of the human tragedies. Why in God's name is someone ruining the security measures that have been agreed? I'm asking why the Minister won't answer what the investment chaos is for D1. I think Mr. Babiš, the finance minister, has one big expert who's in this -- and he's been praising him everywhere, Mr. Wagenknecht, so have him send him to audit for those sections. What does Mr. Wagenknecht say about the fact that highways are actually being driven, on reconstructed roads, and only now are they being manufactured or completed, I don't know, by no means are they approved, change sheets? [[14.00 hours]] I don't want to blame the Minister, I said at the toll that it was a problem, he inherited something. And these are not simple solutions. It may simply take a while, you can load your mouth like it happened to Prague's representatives for the sins of the past. I've been trying to pull what's going on in there right now. And it's really not enough for you that the chaos is huge. I quoted the materials produced by the workers in the organization, not to make my assumptions here. I'd like to... I don't think there's any point in demanding answers from the Minister, but he's read some pre-prepared material that didn't concern him at all, and he's reacted in a few little things. You know, when I was here asking a question about the Prague circuit, what's the function? He does not primarily perform the function of the mobile route around Prague. He's doing the job of transferring the city's transport relations to that circuit. What is the practical consequence? Of course, the automobileisation of the inhabitants of the Central Bohemia Region and other agglomerations has increased. And apparently today, the share will not be as low as it was in the analyses and stress diagrams. But it was 15 percent back then. Okay, today's gonna be 20. But everything else is a transfer of inner-city relationships. The further you pull the circuit away from Prague, the greater, more intense loads will remain in the densely populated agglomeration of the city, the heavily urbanized areas of the city. And that's already an irreversible waste once. No one's ever gonna change that again. Then you have two options to build another road on the route drawn to the city, as the city has been planning for a long time, even from the era of socialism in Prague 11. This is right on the edge of the city as you leave Prague for Brno. So instead of one highway we'll have in the future, if you want to improve the standard and safety of the drivers from that location, there'll be two roads. And if he pulls away 511 or the construction of Suchdola, the city has always had a lot of animations, how significant traffic loads will remain in the inhabited zones of the city, how much accident rate you will grow, how much more tragic traffic accidents will increase. And you're going to base this on, like, a hundred years. And here someone will come and lightly fire from the side: we will do it elsewhere, with the plan of the Central Bohemia Region being nothing. I'm surprised the Social Democrat here says he won't approve of the program. This means - and so were the Social Democrats and members of the ODS, who are fiercely fighting over the D3 motorway. That means you approve of the fact that all of a sudden it's sent, maybe, very likely, prep the Budějovice D3 bypass to the ground, and we're starting from zero. The citizens of Central Bohemia probably don't mind, or your political representation in Central Bohemia doesn't mind, that it is sent to a point zero of tracing and preparation of the D3 motorway because it has been stopped or even cancelled by tender for project documentation. It does not bother you that you will have to launch again such a complex and, in terms of legislation, a touchy process to re-accept the principles of territorial development, to re-accept the territorial plan of the higher local administrative unit of the Prague-Central Bohemian agglomeration. The same thing will probably happen at Budějovice. You really tell people something else, but you do something else here. And if I do, I could imagine saving up somewhere, but the push-off, if you count the dead, the injured, the people affected by the disease and the noise from the city where the transit traffic stays for the next ten or fifteen years, the minister is doing a very crappy business here. I assure you. I once saw an analysis, every year, after which a section of the D11 motorway was not built between Podebrady and Hradec Králové, when statistically the number of accidents and fatal accidents and serious accidents on the I. class road that was there at that time, and it was called the priority road of death at that time, it meant statistically, I'm not saying that it happened, but if statistics were in long years, it was 11 more dead every year. If Mr. Prachař did the same thing in Central Bohemia with the D3 motorway, you can count it, it's much more cunning, today the three-way between Prague and Chotoviny is the worst stretch, so you don't care. You're just here to provide political cover. Let people hear what you're really doing. I'm sorry, because I was actually ready to communicate with Mr. Prachař. I think they were all members of the Economic Committee. But what I hear from all sides, he and humanly have a huge problem communicating. And politics is about communication. This is where we're supposed to discuss material solutions. I don't know how many times political representation is gonna get ahead of the finished thing, like with R52, D3, now with 512 on the Prague circuit, because I don't want to say fooled by the same people who are trying to move the circuit from Suchdol somewhere to Řež. So what are we gonna see next? Do you, gentlemen and ladies of the Member from the Ústí Region, not mind that in this view, other infrastructure, modernization, the solution to transport sensitive places in the Ústí Region does not count very much? And in many years to come. You know, if you look at the accident map, you'll find that's where the seats are. 13th, I/13 Road. You don't think it's worth it to take forceful measures to pay off the debt we have to the Ústí Region, which suffered, was economically extracted during the past era in such a way, and it's not worth paying back the debt somehow at least at the level of modern infrastructure, in some priority axis? Isn't it worth it? Well, I'm surprised the voters tolerate this. But they didn't hear it. Because they will read in the media how great it is, how yes, it will be better. But, you know, we're all on those roads and highways. So I just don't know. We'll be affected, but, well, there are 200 of us here, but the population of this country is ten and a half million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-15-ps2013-018-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Since I don't see anybody logged in to the debate, I'm gonna ring the bell and call in my co-workers from the lobby so they can come in. I merely recall that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application and therefore no amendment or addition of the agenda may be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will therefore now vote on the proposal for the 18th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted. For the record, I'm going to sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards again. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of approving the agenda of this extraordinary meeting, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 2, Members present 115, in favour of proposal 49, against 62. I state that the proposal has not been approved. [[14.10 hours]] At the request of the President of the ODS Club, I call 10 minutes after the end, which is about 14.20 hours, the meeting of the House's leadership, and the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs, their representatives, and it will be with the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm done with today's meeting and have a nice rest of the day.
