ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 17th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Vice-President Jermanová has card number 6. I am telling you that the absence of a Member's case has been requested by the following Members: Mr Adamová - health grounds, Mrs Benešík - working grounds, Mr Zavadil - working hours, Mrs Nohavová - Nováková grounds, Mrs Holeček - working grounds, Mr Holík - working grounds, Mrs Hnyková - working grounds, Semelová Váhalová - working Nytrová, Mr Kalousek - working grounds, Mr Karamazov - Sklenák grounds, Mr Kasal - working grounds, Mr FialaKaňkovský - working Petr, Mr Holík - working grounds, Mr Koníček - working grounds, Mr Štětina - Kořenek grounds, Mr Volčík - working grounds, Mr Luzica - working grounds, Mr Soukup - working Vyzula, Mr Podivínský - working grounds - Pavera grounds, Mrs Markováý - working Šincl - working grounds - working grounds - working Seďa - working grounds. The Prime Minister has apologized from the members of the government since 13.30 for working reasons, Minister Brabec is here, so he cancels the apology, Minister Dienstbier - working reasons, Minister Jourová - foreign trip and Minister Jurečka for work reasons. So many apologies. We should focus on the points that are firmly placed, but I have here the application from the President of the club YES, Mr Faltýnek. And I ask for peace in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Allow me to propose some technical amendments only in today's agenda of the meeting after the debate with other colleagues, the club presidents. I do not want to repeat my mistake in the past and for which I have apologized to my colleagues. It's really just technical stuff. Allow me to propose that we assign a third reading, namely a government bill 239, on vehicle traffic conditions, and a government bill 156, on fertilisers, to the beginning of today's meeting in front of fixed items from the Ministry of Finance block. Then I would like to ask for a new point, and that is the government proposal, the first reading which amends the Public Procurement Act, to the end of today's day, or as the last point for fixed points from the Ministry of Finance block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u3	Mr. Chairman, let me just ask. There's the first Act on Fertilizers on that original show, and then there's the Road Traffic Act. Can it be the way it is? Yes. [[Agreed.]] Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u4	Good morning. For one thing, I would like to support and confirm the agreement that we have made with Mr President of the ANO MEP's club that we are still going to discuss the Public Procurement Act at first reading today, so that committees, particularly economic, can address this. But since we're expanding the program, let me propose a new point. I'm going to say the title completely to the end and try to recapitulate and quote several statements made by members of the government. [[There's too much noise in the room.]] Two days ago, we noticed many of the press conferences held by the Governor of the Region of Vysočina and our colleague and also the Chairman of the Board of Directors of VZP, who certainly has enough experience and information in the field of health, along with the directors of both state and regional hospitals, announcing that the audits carried out by the Ministry of Finance in these hospitals are purposeful, that they are not in a position to defend themselves. There were even words from the mouth of one director that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u5	I am very sorry, but please all who have now arrived in the House to settle down and also reduce the sound level in the hall, because President Stanjura has the right to speak in a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u6	Or at least a slightly lower noise level. I can't imagine complete silence here. Even one of the directors said they had the right to a fair trial denied by the Ministry. I want to remind you that the opposition had no part in this, as was often remembered, that the opposition is playing some pre-election performances here and so on. So Mr. Governor and MP Běhounek are for social democracy. The director of the Hospital in Motol performed there, a candidate for social democracy for the post of Prague mayor. Then the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance responded. Let me quote the literal transcription of two members of the government on TV the day before yesterday, when the Minister of Health said: "Well, if it turns out that hospitals have to return money, I have no doubt that hospitals will succeed in their ability to turn to court. " The Finance Minister notes: "We look forward to it, we look forward to it. And if they can't do it, let them give it to us and we'll be happy to take care of it, you hospital." I didn't quite understand if the hospital was to be run by the Treasury Department or the YES movement. In turn, the Minister of Health says: "The hospital directors said that they had basically learned unofficially at the start of the audit, that the result would be bad, that it would be given and that they would only talk about the amount of sanctions. " I'm not gonna read the whole thing. It's got four sides. Among other things, in the next speech of the Minister of Finance, a very collegial comment was made on the address of the Minister of Health: "Well, Mr Němeček was also famous for buying expensive equipment, by the way." And the Minister of Finance continues - and now, please, seriously, because the Minister of Finance has identified who is running the election campaign, and he says, "Mr. Němeček here is doing the political campaign of the ČSSD before the municipal elections." And he continues: "Today the election campaign is made by Němeček, an election campaign for the Czech Post Office is being made for ČSA, and I don't know what, all the things that ČSSD participated in." And so on. So I was gonna say it's not an election attack by the opposition on the government, but it's a struggle within the government. Basically, when I simplify it, the Minister of Health and Hospital Directors say, "Here is an opaque audit, the results of which are given before it began. We don't have a chance to defend ourselves." And the Minister of Finance, and especially his first deputy, who is the political deputy for the YES movement, says: "Everything is fine. Those hospital directors are afraid of their own mistakes. Among other things, the Minister of Health is also Němeček in this. We're making order here." We, of course, know as citizens' democrats that the Minister of Health's request to publish audit reports cannot be implemented. I think anyone who had an audit in their institution knows that it would be a violation of the law if audit reports were published in full. So basically, it's also a political demand. I believe the Minister of Health knows that. However, we, as opposition, are really in the dark about this. We can't tell you where the truth is when government ministers from different coalition parties come face-to-face with this kind of hard-to-face. [[11.10 hours]] And I think the information is quite interesting, because both the Minister of Health and the people of those hospitals, but also Deputy Minister of Finance Wagenknecht, they're all talking about a possible loss of money, only one group accuses the other that they're the ones who will cause the loss. The Ministry of Health and Hospital Directors say it will cause finance, and the Deputy Minister of Finance Wagenknecht says it's what the directors who are constantly communicating through the media do. However, even in the performance, apparently under the strain of nervousness, Mr. First Deputy Minister of Finance suddenly says: but I, above all, have made it possible for one of the speakers - above all - to see and consult in advance how the audit is actually taking place. So at least at this point, if it's in his defense, that's what the Deputy Minister of Finance said, so basically he's right about the hospital directors. Well, who's supposed to know? Certainly not, unless there is clear information here in the Chamber of Deputies. So, today, I propose as a last item not to disturb the agreement last week or this morning, to include a point that would be called the Information of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance on the course of the audit in selected hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u7	Yes. Thank you. Mr Votava, then Mr Laudát, then Mr Váňa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, good morning to all. I would like to propose two points for today's meeting. I stress that these points were originally in the program, then they were eliminated. I included them at the time, because tomorrow is the exit meeting of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgets needs to discuss them at the exit meeting. These are two customs laws, respectively. Customs Law and Law related, namely printing 267, Customs Administration Act, and Printing 268. These are related laws to customs administration. I propose to include them after the third reading, because I have heard that the two third readings will be presented, they will be the first two points, which means that these points would be the third and fourth points of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u9	Thank you. Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for my previous speaker's performance. We agreed on some deals here on Friday. After discussing with the Chairman of the club of the ANO movement, we are willing to admit, even though the Minister is not and the new one is not yet appointed, that we will make an entirely exception, we will release the amendment to the Public Procurement Act. But Mr. Chairman of the Social Democracy Club Sklenák has promised us repeatedly that no one will score any more points. Otherwise, I fully support the inclusion of a point relating to audits, because what is happening, I already have a certain experience from another institution. Those who went on a subway tour from the economic committee, and I had no idea what was going on - so I said that some two troublemakers left the city's institution, the city's company, Mr. Babiš, and here we are. Indeed, the exact pattern is exactly the same. Some kind of audit, I suppose, is a draft, not a final audit, that journalists will get it before those involved. The protagonist is the same. So I think if you want to break up any country, some kind of resort, go ahead. That means I think the Minister of Finance here should defend those steps. It is not possible for hospital directors to be embarrassed in this way. I have no comment at all that week and something before the election. So that point should be based on some perhaps comprehensive discussion at the end of the House, but again I strongly want to turn against the fact that there are other points against the agreements. Then there's no point, and then there's probably no deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u11	Thank you. Chairman Kováčik with priority rights? [[No.]] In order. In that case, Mr Váňa, then President Kováčik and President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that there has been an agreement on which points will be discussed today and that we agree on the inclusion of the one on public procurement, indeed exceptionally. The Social Democracy Club will not support the inclusion of other points. I would like to inform you that, on behalf of 20 members of the Czech Social Democratic Party Club, we object to the inclusion of a point of information by the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance, as presented by President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u13	Well, that's a veto on a new point. President Kováčik, then President Okamura and then Mr Votava. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. Almost for nothing, after a colleague Vanya, on behalf of members of social democracy, has vetoed a new point, but I must say at least a few words about it, because I was quite frightened of the news that has been coming out of the media for the last few days regarding hospital audits. It also applies to the Jihlava Hospital in Vysočina Region, where I live and live. I would have been quite welcome if this point had been included and we could have learned more about whether the hospitals actually managed badly according to the audit that we are talking about, or whether it was just some, as some commentators have also marked it, just a pre-election sheet or an election fight or a pre-election push within a government coalition. Shame about the veto, I can just sit back and wish you a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u15	President Okamura, then Mr Votava, then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we as the Dawn movement, as we watched these arguments between the ANO and the CSSD movement, so I wanted to express our strong support for the inclusion of the extraordinary point that would clarify the management of Czech hospitals. There are billions of crowns made of public money. We think it is necessary to clarify the flow of money, the management, it concerns about 20 hospitals, so that it is clear to all citizens and to us what is really going on. We have heard something on TV, but I think that here in the Chamber of Deputies and in view of the amounts that are being discussed, it should be heard publicly, and this discussion should be here, as it is with the management of Czech hospitals. It is important for us, and why we say this so that citizens can be sure, even we in Dawn, that the money flows in the right direction, that it is not being abused and that it is being used for the benefit. This means that we will certainly vote in favour of this item being placed at the meeting of this Chamber of Deputies. There's nothing to hide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u17	Thank you. Mr Petr Adam's apology - for health reasons. Mr Votava, then President Faltýnek, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I therefore withdraw the two points that I have proposed to discuss today regarding the Customs Act. Some deals have been made, I don't want to disturb them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u19	Yes. Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the veto of social democracy, I would like to ask in relation to the potential debate on health care and hospitals to await the end of the audit because the audit is from the Ministry of Finance running. I don't want to speak for the minister here, who is on his way, but it will still take at least 14 days, and the information that has come out, whether it has been taken out by hospital directors or from the other side, that is not relevant at this point, is just some partial piece of information. Let's wait for the final results. To ad 1. Ad 2. Whoever is interested, of course it is up to each of us, let us try to prepare for this discussion in a qualified manner. I would recommend that we all take a look at the public portal where all tender procedures for public contracts hang. And let's see what's going on at the Health Department. It's really worth it. Yesterday, when I was looking at it, I found only about three little things like this for a few tens of millions of crowns, when... Let's just prepare for the debate in a qualified manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u21	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u22	In principle, I expected veto, but I would like to see the twenty signatures, because if it is not on behalf of two clubs, but it is twenty Members, I would like to see which twenty Members it gave veto, because I am really interested. I understand the shootout that's been going on for three days, and I say none of the opposition parties called it up, but the government party, essentially the strongest government party, in the answer of the finance minister as a major attack on the Minister of Health. Basically, it was said that he resisted proper investigation because he had butter on his head and he was one of the directors who was buying overpriced goods. I am so surprised that it is precisely social democracy that does not want to give space to its minister so that he can defend himself before the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, government politicians have more information than we do. I also did not want to address the outcome of the audits. That, I believe, is not the position of the Chamber of Deputies either. I understand it's in the middle of a run. I really understand that. But who brought it up? Social Democrats. Who's responding? Yes. Who responds to YES? Social democracy. And we want information, too. Pretty logical. President Faltýnek here has said quite serious information that, if I understood correctly, there are unnecessary public procurements. That these are things that directors and people who do there could do for their own, already on existing wages. That's a qualified contribution to the health debate. I just wanted to hear the opinion of the members of the government whether they're special-purpose audits or running everything as it should. Apparently, two members of the government are blaming each other on TV, who says you have a purpose, and the other one says no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You've got butter on your head, you've been buying overpriced too - I'm sorry for calling you crazy, it's hard to call you crazy. I didn't address them directly. Otherwise, of course, I'd scold both gentlemen. To my surprise, 20 Social Democrats, 20 members of the Social Democracy Club, don't want to talk about it, they don't want to give space to their minister to defend himself. I respect that, but I'd really like the 20 signatures if the President told me he had them. That's enough for me. I'm not gonna control them. It's different from when the club presidents agree and it's on behalf of two clubs. I think it's absolutely undisputed. That's all. It's a shame, so we'll suggest it next time. If ministers went to interpelations, maybe we'll leave it to interpelations, but they don't go there much, then it's complicated if you don't have a place to ask. But the key message was on TV when the First Deputy Prime Minister accuses the government's largest party of making an independent audit a campaign for election, and you don't want to talk about it. Well, I guess he's right. There's nothing else you can do for me. You accept the Minister of Finance's opinion that you're making an independent election campaign audit. I didn't understand it so far, I thought you'd be here to defend yourself and inform us, but also the public as it is. You don't want to, so keep campaigning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u23	Yes. Just for the procedure. Section 54, par. 6 speaks of the objection of 20 Members, but it does not specify that it must be written. I brát it that there are more than 20 members of social democracy in this room, and I assume that all present in the words of the President-in-Office, The renunciation was applied. If this is not the case, please let the person who does not wish to object to the social democracy club speak. If no one gets off, I feel that there are more than 20 members of social democracy. Mr Laudát has now claimed priority rights, then President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry you put a veto on it. It's an attack on you. I really don't understand. I find it absolutely awful if the audit isn't completed, I don't know, because I know from some protagonists that they won't sign the audit. They're writing drafts and intermediates so that someone doesn't accidentally take it and put it in court. That's the first thing. The second thing is that in a decent company, I assume that it is running in cooperation or a power audit, it is drawn up, the parties concerned will comment on this, and then it is discussed, but I don't know why it has to be fought in front of the media during the election week. If you are aware that the European Union has reached a stage that it is based on information from the Czech media, and here it will be poured to give us an even worse picture, so don't be mad at me, but that is some kind of destruct of the state as stitched up as it is. Perhaps the institutions in Brussels must rely on clear, correct facts, clear, correct procedures. And what the government is doing here is absolutely ridiculous, but a very dangerous tragedy. And the colleague who put the veto here - I wouldn't wish you weren't on the list to find the data on you. Next time you can be audited by the law of the law. And I know what I'm talking about, my colleague, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u25	President of the Dawn Club, Mr. Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, let me also briefly comment on the point of hospitals. You know well that in its report, the European Union has expressed itself that the Czech Republic is a risky country in drawing subsidies and that it does not exist or is not completely transparent in all these matters. I think that in a situation where we have dealt with overpriced purchases of medical equipment in North Bohemia in the past, where the hospital economy is not transparent enough and we have our doubts about it, and if we want to refute the things that concern the EU report, we as opposition must put some political and social pressure on public debate and we need to put political pressure on hospitals to be controlled, so that there is precise control, because control, as we know, strengthens confidence. For this reason, I also regret that the point has been eliminated, but I believe that we will get to it because I think it is necessary for some of the other meetings because it is needed for Czech health care, for the Czech Republic. Next thing you know, let me do one more thing. I remember when we were here last week at the beginning discussing the agenda of the meeting and I got off here and I said there were so many changes that I couldn't agree with it because I wasn't able to rewrite it so quickly and look at the changes that were actually happening. I would like to comment on the fact that, before today's meeting, a colleague called me Faltýnek, told me what he needed to translate, what he needed to change, I consider his actions to be very collegial, because we have been able to consult on it, and I can say that if it is as we all expect it to be, then the Dawn movement will support the proposal for today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-000-000.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll ask if anybody else is checking in. It's not like that. Several proposals have been tabled here, but Mr Votava withdraws his proposal, on the proposal of President Stanjura, the veto has been raised, so we can only vote on what was proposed by President Faltýnek, and that is to add paragraph 146 as the first item of today's negotiations, paragraph 129, and to put a new item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Government's draft law on public procurement. It would be the last point of today's meeting. I will ask whether we can vote at once on these proposals or whether anyone wants a separate vote. Suddenly. We will vote on all three of Mr Faltýnek's proposals with one vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 298, entered 144, for 130, against 1, this proposal was adopted. I don't think we can vote on any other proposals. That's right. [[11.30 hours]] In that case, we would move on to the first point of our meeting. It's...
