ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-14-ps2013-022-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 22nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Calm down, please! Please take your seats. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 53 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Monday 10 November. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. I have no such information yet. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mr Klučka. I'll ask if there's another proposal. If there is no other proposal, then we will vote on the designation of verifiers. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of electing Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mr Klučka to press the button and raise her hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 1, registered 117, for 105, against 1. This proposal was adopted. I would like to inform you of the apologies from this meeting. Mr Lank apologizes for foreign travel, and Mr Adam - health reasons, Mr Adamec without giving reason, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - health reasons, Mr Babiš Miloš - foreign travel, Mrs Bebarová-Rujbrová - foreign travel, Mr Bezecný - foreign travel, Mr Böhnisch - personal reasons, Mr Černoch - working reasons. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'm really asking you to calm down! Mrs Černochová - foreign travel, Mr Černý - health reasons, Mr Gabal - working grounds, Mr Grebeníček - health reasons, Mr Horáček - personal reasons, Mr Janulík - working reasons, Vice-President Jermanová - personal reasons, Mr Kaňkovský - health reasons, Mr Karamazov - personal reasons, Mr Kasal - working grounds, Mr Korte - working grounds, Mr Kořenek - working reasons, Mr Kott - working reasons, Mr Ondráček - working grounds, Mr Ondráček - health reasons, Mr Pavera - personal reasons, Mr Pilný - working grounds, Mr Podivínský - working grounds, without giving reason, Mrs Putnová - foreign road, Mrs Semelová - working grounds, Mr SkanickSkalický within 12 hours - working grounds, Mr Šidlo - working grounds, Mrs Wernerová - personal reasons, Mr Valenta - foreign road, Member Zahradníček - personal reasons. Minister Chládek - foreign trip, Minister Chovanec - foreign trip, Minister Němeček for family reasons, Minister Šlechtová for work reasons and Minister Zaorálek also for work reasons. So many apologies. We would now proceed to the appointment of the 22nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is therefore not possible to propose an amendment or addition to the programme and it is also not possible to extend the approved programme. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby if there are any. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed agenda, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 2, registered is 136, for 124, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I'm saying we've approved the agenda for the meeting. I also apologize to Mr Vondráček for family reasons. We would therefore now proceed to the only item on the agenda, which is:
