ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 266/2006 Coll., on employees' accident insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 100/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the amendment to this Act on accident insurance is, in fact, only to postpone its effectiveness on 1 January 2016. And I should probably remind you that the effectiveness of this law has been postponed three times, last time on the basis of a comprehensive amendment in the Senate to January 1, 2015. The reason for the current delay of effectiveness is the definition of sufficient time to make an overall assessment of all possibilities of employee safety at work and occupational disease, as well as a subsequent decision on how to ensure employees in these cases, the preparation and discussion of proposed changes and the presentation of the chosen solution into the legal order. It is also necessary to state and stress that, in the case of maintaining the current concept of accident insurance, an extensive amendment to the existing Staff Accident Insurance Act 2006 will be necessary, where appropriate, to replace the entire Act with a new Act. That is why we are asking to postpone efficiency once more. Otherwise, the bill is of a technical nature. Therefore, the establishment of the Act on employee accident insurance is changing by one year, i.e. on 1 January 2016. And, of course, similar regulations are introduced in the laws that follow this law. honourable Members, I would therefore like to ask you to release this government bill to second reading and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u3	I thank the Minister and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear two ministers, colleagues, I would like to present a report on this rather simple House press. But let me think a little bit about the past. The current effective legislation on employee accident insurance has been considered provisional and temporary for 22 years. It is therefore still in conflict with the Constitution of the Czech Republic and some legislation, but also with the legislation of the European Union. I'm just surprised we haven't had any sanctions yet. Everything had to be resolved valid but still effective law No. 266/2006 Sb. I'll take a short tour of the recent past. When he prepared for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs between 2003 and 2005, the new Labour Code was formed at the same time, but outside the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs within the framework of the declared grant the Act on employee accident insurance, which was then approved as Act No. 266/2006 Coll., on employee accident insurance. However, when it was approved, it was clear that it would have to be completed by the time it was effective. Instead of finishing, however, its effectiveness has been postponed three times, namely by Law No. 218/2007 Sb., no. 282/2009 Sb. and No. 263/2012 Coll. The right-wing governments were not about the drafting of the law, but about its system change, the preparation of which was entrusted to the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the banking sector. Everything was ultimately ruined by developments in the previous Chamber of Deputies. Thus, according to the last delay, the applicable law should take effect from 1 January 2016. 1st of next year. The apple of contention or hesitation is the fact that the new law changes the concept by proposing a transition from commercial insurance, which is guaranteed by the long-term monopoly - and for this we are criticised by the European Union - for the commission of the Česká pojišťovna and Kooperativa pojišťovna. The change is intended to switch to insurance in the social system managed by the Czech Social Security Administration. The accident insurance is thus newly conceived as complementary insurance to health, sickness and pension insurance. I personally consider these changes to be correct. Another solution is possible, of course full of privatisation, but open not only to two, but to all possible entities. In a broad commercial sphere, I think there can be room for additional above-standard services, as in the pension system. Newly, in this ineffective law, it is also intended, among other things, to switch from employers' insurance to insurance for each employee, but which will continue to be paid by employers, according to the coefficient prevailing in their employees' activities. There are some legal disputes here too. But what, then, is the current task facing our parliament in the long run? Apart from the possibility of changing the system, it is necessary to amend errors and supplement the Workers' Accident Insurance Act according to the effective wording of the Labour Code as well as the new Civil Code. As an example, the compensation for damage to health is regulated only in its transitional provisions in Sections 275 and 365 to 394, according to the applicable Labour Code, not in its 11th part, where the compensation is adjusted. [[15.10 hours]] In short, this is a necessary legislative regulation that will ensure that the entire system meets real needs and will quickly and adequately ensure compensation for damage to workers' health or lives. There is a risk that the accident insurance of employees compared to the compensation of damages, in particular under the new Civil Code, would only be so called. It's a poor dose. Any employee would be treated the same way. Let me give you an illustration. If a tractor finger is lost, it will receive the same compensation as a violin virtuoso, although it is clear at first sight that the tractorist will be able to continue his work, but not the violinist anymore. The violinist will therefore be forced to sue the pest himself for damages under the new Civil Code. The only advantage of the law today is perhaps that the compensation under the current accident law will be granted relatively faster than the compensation provided or attributed under the new Civil Code. I stress that this is not just a technical amendment today. This is about setting a new time limit in which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will prepare, respectively. Government of the Czech Republic, a new, quality legislative proposal. And personally, I would not want this space to be used to prepare a systemic change in terms of privatisation of insurance. I make this remark consciously to the address of the government, which I have heard, in a short period of time, to deal with new decision-making material on the future form of employee security in an accident at work or occupational disease. I hope that he will behave like a good caretaker, because the considerable transformation costs for the Czech Social Security Administration, which, of course, complicates approaches, will balance savings in the state budget in the next period. And now for your own design. By the government proposed extension of the extension of the extension of the application of Act No. 266/2006 Sb. just one year is not only in my opinion and experience too short. During that time, the government will not be able to make the necessary corrections, the necessary implementation of the new Civil Code and the amended related regulations within the prescribed legislative time limits. Nor will they ensure the budgetary preparation of the state budget and the medium-term outlook for expenditure on the implementation of this law. These are mainly costs related to taking over this insurance by the Czech Social Security Administration. It is also necessary to take account of the legitimisation deadline, because financial, technical and personnel security, as well as the process of introducing the law into practice is irresponsible voluntaristically accelerated, it takes two or more than three years, and we would be standing over the problem for one year again. Therefore, at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, which should be ordered by this press to discuss, I will propose a postponement of effectiveness by at least two years, requiring the Government to present a new law and to return to Part 11 of the Labour Code the adjustment of compensation for damage to health. After all, such a proposal was already prepared in the Labour Code, and in the last parliamentary term in the Houses of the Press 689, but in connection with the fight for the amount of commission for managing accident insurance and lobbying between Members and Senators, it fell under the table. It is not a matter of pointing out that we now have a strange situation in the legal order of the Czech Republic. In the service affairs of members of the security forces pursuant to Act No. 361/2003 Coll., as amended, and in the case of professional soldiers pursuant to Act No. 221/1999 Coll., as amended, is the compensation for damage to the health of members and soldiers adapted to the principles under the first Labour Code. In the case of employees who are really, really more in order, they are still looking for various experiments. I understand that this is a lot of money and public finance management is tempting to many entities. I therefore recommend a clear and rapid government procedure, within the meaning of this applicable law, which I was rapporteur for in 2005 and beyond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u5	I thank Mr Opálek. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Miroslav Kalousek first came forward with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make two comments. Firstly, I would like to illuminate the difference between the virtual reality of the parliamentary debate and the reality of the green tree of life. The rapporteur Opálka here, in a touching story, stressed the difference between the violinist and the tractorists who both lose their pinky fingers, and their next career is of course very different. The fact is a touching story of the virtual parliamentary debate. The green tree of life is so that while the violinist requalifies himself on the tractor rather easily, the tractorist on the violinist is already much worse, while the tractorist objectively has a higher salary than the violinist. So that's the real life. The second thing is that the amendment to the Act on Accident Insurance is such an evergreen parliamentary debate, when every government - i.e. I also claim my co-responsibility - occasionally comes before the Chamber of Deputies and says: We do not know what to do with it. Please let us postpone, we'll figure something out... He's not gonna think of anything. Then he'll come back and then he'll propose something to postpone. Because the real solution, the real solution that exists here, which has its parallel e.g. in compulsory car accident insurance, this real solution requires some political courage, especially to tell the Czech insurance company and Kooperativa: Enough! Someone else, too. And there's a lot of trouble with that. So I'd like to ask - yes. [[Attention on time.]] I will propose a resolution. If you'll just cut me off and I'm applying with priority rights. If not, then allow me to make a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u7	Then proceed with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to freely follow my priority right, and allow me to express my opinion to TOP 09 that this non-verending story should end once and that we should once recommend a definitive solution. And that, with all due respect to the Minister - and that is really nothing that she should be held responsible for, rather we who carried her in the past years - should return the bill to work with a strong request from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to finally present a definitive solution, because we have all been waiting for it for ten years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u9	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr Jaroslav Zavadil came forward with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two members of the government, sorry, three, I think it is really time for someone to find the courage. Twenty-two years have been said here. Twenty-two years I've been fighting with anyone who can finally make this law a law worth fighting for. Today, only banks are making money, their 9% directing is outrageous. By the way, Austrian and Swiss insurance facilities for such things are about 2%, not nine. And that's what we've managed to knock it down from 22 or 24 through the Ministry of Finance and other institutions. So it's an outrageous shame that there's never been a law like this! And I hope we can find the political courage to prepare him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u11	Thank you, Mr Zavadil. Please note that we have a fixed point in a minute, so I ask who else is reporting to the general debate. Mrs Hnyková is applied for, please, Mrs Hnyková, you have the floor. [[He speaks softly.]] I'm asking the honourable House, because it's 15.20, if it's okay for us to finish this point and then proceed with the fixed point. Does anyone object to such a procedure? No, thank you. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u12	Mr President, I would first like to draw your attention to the fact that my name is Hnyková and that it is pronounced harshly. Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been informed here of the Government's bill amending Act No. 266/2006 Coll., on employee accident insurance, as amended, and other related laws, House press number 100. I must state how it has already been said here that this is only a technical amendment, when the effectiveness of the Act is assessed on 1. 1. 2016 but, as has already been said here, we all need to ask ourselves what direction we will continue in the accident insurance. Although Mr Opálka has already assessed and looked into history here, I would still like to repeat some things. First of all, I would like to recapitulate how the accident insurance has developed since 2006, when Law No. 266/2006 Coll., on employees' accident insurance, which was an accompanying law to the new Labour Code. As is generally known, the effectiveness of the law is constantly shifted and there are more reasons. On the part of employers' associations in particular, many comments have been made against this law, which I mention: it is a hard administrative bureaucratic system, everything will be decided by the administration of social security under the administrative procedure, thereby increasing administrative and time-consuming demands. For example, the law does not address the losses incurred by employers by the absence of an employee, which will probably have to be visited repeatedly by Czech Social Security Administration review doctors and exhibitors. The insured person is not an insurance payer, i.e. an employer who cannot influence the management of the Czech Social Security Administration. The amount of compensation to the injured person is far from covering damage to the current concept, since it is not compensation, but something as a social benefit. It is expected that employees will sue for damage, creating a paradoxical situation where the employer will pay insurance, but this will not cover all risks. The law conceals considerable corruption potential, the amount of benefits will be rapid, it will depend on some percentage of damage to health, which will probably be determined by opinion doctors according to unclear criteria. The Act introduces further reporting obligations in parallel with generally binding legislation, which addresses this issue, for example, by Government Regulation No. 201/2010 Coll., on the method of recording the accident, reporting and sending the accident record without any connection to it. There is no caselaw on the new principle of benefits, instead of compensation can be expected to increase litigation. In 2010, the Ministry of Finance was tasked with developing options for a possible solution, as it was already clear that Law No. 266/2006 Sb. it is not viable in its original form. This was presented by four possible solutions, with the established Chamber of Deputies and subsequently the OSH Council recommending a variant where the Czech Social Security Administration would be the interim bearer of insurance on the roughly existing ground plan, i.e. maintaining the principle of compensation for damage and the employer's objective liability. [[There's a constant noise in the O.R.]] The insurance would be transferred to a non-profit entity, tripartitely managed with significant motivational elements. Different variants of this model are common in Western European countries and they have been operating successfully for many years. Mr President, would you please... [[The President uses the bell to lower the noisy Members.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u13	I would like to ask for peace, and I would like the lady of the house to continue when it is really quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u14	Thank you. To the surprise of all the participants, however, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or Minister Drábek, decided to follow the path of the amendment of Act No. 266/2006 Coll., which in previous negotiations employers and experts participating in the Chamber of Deputies clearly rejected as the worst possible solution of all submitted. After many negotiations, the Government of the Czech Republic concluded that this was nonsense, and in resolution No. By letter dated 24 October 2012, Law No 781 of 24 October 2012 was adopted. 266/2006 Sb. cancel, which did not happen in the end, and the Ministry of Finance was ordered to process the documents for the legalization of the commercial variant only. The material was processed by the Ministry of Finance. In particular, the following issues were raised in the notice procedure: For employers, this will be a major increase in damage coverage, which will be due in particular to its participation. The insurance policy is to remain preserved for five years, but with an inflation clause, and then it will be completely non-regulable. The petitioner shall be prevented from drawing up the RIA document; there would have to be an analysis of the number of accidents in the participation zone and impacts on the employer's sphere. The direct position of the injured person against the insurance undertaking will put the injured person at a disadvantage. This can be seen from some of the current practices of one of the insurance companies managing the existing system, which, for example, acquires the right to decide what it recognises as an accident at work, although it has no authorisation. There is no effective control or appeal body, the supervision of insurance companies is carried out only by the Czech National Bank and it is interested in their capital adequacy, not whether it harms its clients. This is what we see today, when there is nowhere to complain about the insurance company's progress, and the only option is a fair trial. From the point of view of public budgets, it appears completely outside the reality of the assumption of taking over old commitments by the State. The range was estimated at about 50 billion. Crowns. Now this amount is estimated at 61 billion. Crowns. In particular, these cases are so called cases. rents that are financed from the ongoing system without a problem at that time. Although the government has decided on this procedure, to a general surprise, the work on new legislation has not been included in the legislative work plan, so there has been no further progress in this matter following the fall of the government. The so-called bureaucratic government of Prime Minister Rusnok submitted to Parliament a draft law on further delaying the effectiveness of Act No. 266/2006 Sb. and, at the same time, imposed new processing of variants to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which will be submitted to the new government. [[Members are having fun in the benches.]] It describes three possible variants. The so-called batch system in the intensity of Act No. 266/2006 Sb., commercial variant and variant of public insurance in terms of the current Labour Code. Public law insurance of all three variants appears to be the most acceptable, does not burden the state budget with the need to take over old commitments, preserves the principle of employer's liability and damages and follows up on previous legislation, thus avoiding similar traps as the new Civil Code -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u15	I'm sorry, but again, I'm asking the lady to stop, interrupt her speech until we've really quieted down here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u16	Thank you, too. ... as the new Civil Code brings, that is, a long-term search for and finding the law. Moreover, this system also works successfully in a number of countries such as Austria. It generates resources for preventive programs and rehabilitation of the disabled. The system is not fundamentally rejected by employers if it is under tripartite administration. [[15.30 hours]] I am aware that commercial insurance companies will lobby for commercial form, which is not surprising. Just look at the 2012 figures: administrative director of insurance companies 577 million, contribution to state budget 2.26 billion. If we add an estimate of outstanding claims that would be in the participation band, it is a business in the range of approximately 4 billion. Every year, and that's worth the effort. Of course, what will happen after the first lawsuit, with a painful and difficult social application, is likely to be seen, but the idea that the vast majority of accidents will end in court is frightening. In 2012, 44,000 accidents with incapacity for work took place and a further 20,000 pain was compensated. These figures clearly exceed the capacity of our judicial system. All I can do is hope that common sense will prevail, and that is why, at the end of my contribution, I appeal to processors to resort to public insurance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u17	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková, and at the same time, I apologize to her for softening her name. Another with priority rights is the chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just using a brief moment to ask a polite question that I would like to ask Mrs Hnyková by your means. Please, did you read your post the first time you introduced us to him? Or have you read it before, Madame? Who wrote it doesn't even dare ask, I'm not that rude.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the rapporteur or the appellant for any final words. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] I would like to say that you can see for yourself that this is not just a technical amendment, that it is an approach that this Republic will issue in the accident insurance. I believe that both the Czech Social Security Administration carries out pension insurance, sickness insurance, and it is also responsible for accident insurance, so that the cycle is completed. [[The president is ringing the bell to calm the room.]] So we have two options in the future. Either privatise this system fully and open it to all interested persons in the banking sector or assign it to the pension and sickness insurance. As it will be, soon the government will decide and then, of course, this Chamber of Deputies. I want to say that the idea that every citizen, every employee in the event of an accident or occupational illness or survivors in the event of death will have to enforce their claims by means of the Civil Code or some framework insurance, which will provide only some lower limit, does not, in my opinion, belong to the space of Central Europe in the 21st century. I am therefore intercede to release this press into second reading, to order it to the Committee on Social Policy, where we will certainly continue this debate and perhaps for a long time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u21	Thank you to the rapporteur. Madam Secretary with the final word. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, I just wanted to express my conviction that this government will not be the one who merely postpones and does not want to deal with it. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-006-013.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the good news. We will proceed to the vote. I have noted the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, submitted by Mr Kalousek. I'll call our colleagues in the lobby. I am opening the vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? In the voting order number 35, 167 Members and Members, for 25, against 101. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Social Policy Committee. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? He doesn't. We will therefore proceed to the vote in order for this bill to be ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is for the commandment of the Social Policy Committee, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? In voting order number 36 registered 168 Members, for 140, against 1. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. I'm ending reading this bill first. The next draft of the law that we are going to deal with is
