ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-001-088.u1	88. Czech National Bank's report on inflation - January 2014 (The Monetary Development Report for the second half of 2013) /German press 128/ I would welcome the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Mr. Miroslav Singer, here among us. Hello. According to Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, the Czech National Bank is obliged to report to the Chamber of Deputies at least twice a year on monetary developments. I therefore ask the Governor of the Czech National Bank to present the report. Mr. Governor, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-001-088.u2	Mr President, Madam Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the inflation report from the first quarter at the moment, but in the meantime, there has been a report on inflation number two, so I will try to focus on both of them, that is, on the current development of the Czech economy. The Czech economy finally bounced off the bottom of the business cycle last year. Its growth accelerated significantly in the fourth quarter. Gross domestic product increased by almost 2% quarter-on-quarter, year-on-year to growth by 1.1 %, which mainly involved domestic demand. This has already been signalled in advance by the positive development of industrial production, construction production and further acceleration signalled also retail sales, which have been growing in real terms for the last six months. The seasonally adjusted share of unemployed people was still growing last year, but the average wage was also rising at an unprecedentedly low rate, even decreased by 1.8 percent in the fourth quarter, but the development was largely due to tax optimization from the last quarter of the previous year. However, there have been clear signs of positive turnover in the labour market since the beginning of this year, in line with our expectations and in connection with the growing economy. This is demonstrated by the observed decline in seasonally adjusted share of unemployed persons in January to May and the decrease in the general unemployment rate in the first quarter. What is also important is that we recorded wage growth in the first quarter, which reached 3.6 % in the business sector and 2 percent in the non-business sector. [[9.20 hours]] Annual headline inflation was very low but positive in line with our expectations. We have experienced positive values of 0,01 % and 0,02 % at the beginning of the year, now remaining at 0.04%, which at the same time confirms that our November decision to use the exchange rate as another monetary policy instrument has made a significant contribution to averting the threat of deflation. The weakened exchange rate is projected over import prices, but I note that import prices have increased at around half the rate of export prices, i.e. that the production sector, of course, collects a premium that has already been shown to clearly improve the overall results of non-financial corporations in the fourth quarter as reported by the Czech Statistical Office. If I go back to recent developments, we expect the economy to increase by 2.6 percent this year, which will contribute both foreign demand and monetary policy easing, as well as fiscal policy contribution to gross domestic product growth. Household consumption will also increase more clearly following accelerating wage dynamics in low inflation conditions, improving labour market developments and relaxed monetary conditions. The growth of the Czech economy will accelerate to 3.3 percent next year, which will contribute to the further moderate acceleration of the eurozone economy and already relatively robust growth in domestic demand with a significant expansion of budgetary policy. This will contribute to growth as well as this year, all components of domestic demand and also Czech exports. [[There's a high level of noise in the room.]] Accelerating growth will further reflect positive developments in the labour market. For this year, we expect the stagnation of the unemployment rate, but the end of the well-known "curzarbeits" and then a clear reduction in the unemployment rate next year. This year's wages will increase by more than two percent, in 2015 we expect their dynamics to rise to 4 percent. As far as inflation is concerned, we expect extremely low values this year. Inflation will be the lowest in ten years. At the beginning of the year, inflation should slightly shift over the inflation target of 2%, peaking to 2.3 per cent in the second quarter of next year, and inflation should reach 2.2 per cent by the end of the year, or stick close to the target. The forecast is based on the assumption that market interest rates will be stable this year and until sometime next year, essentially at zero of our rates and the exchange rate of the koruna close to the level of CZK 27 per euro until the beginning of next year. We still consider the level of the exchange rate commitment to be appropriately chosen and assume that we keep the course close to this level, as we have always announced, at least until the beginning of 2015, with a somewhat increased probability that we will not leave it at the first session in February, but sometime later. I'll allow myself to end up in such a way that I don't waste your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-001-088.u3	děkovat you, Mr. Governor. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered as press 128/1. I beg the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Adolf Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-001-088.u4	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly, because the governor described the situation. You have the House press number 128, of course the data are historical, so it is not quite the current issue. I assume you've met the material. The Czech National Bank's report on inflation from January, as in all reports since 1998, has been discussing the key task, the main task, namely to meet the inflation target. The answer to this question is done in the report, there is a macroeconomic analysis and there are forecasts of future developments for the next 18 months. As mentioned, the report, of course, defends the intervention of the Czech National Bank, which has managed to keep inflation within the permitted limits. Of course, the intervention of the Czech National Bank, and the visa that has now been presented here, will probably not end right at the beginning of 2015, but will very likely continue until the middle of this year. The legitimacy of the Czech National Bank's step is confirmed in the data available. He supported this in the fourth quarter of stagnant foreign trade and foreign exchange intervention encouraged him. The figures available to you in the first four months of this year show that the threat of deflation has in fact not yet completely passed. In fact, the Czech National Bank considers this goal as the only clear one, not taking into account the other budgetary implications. The forecasts of development therefore calculate that inflation will remain at the bottom of the tolerance band throughout this year. Next year, the tolerance zone should then attack from the upper limit, which means it should reach as much as 2,2 %. As far as economic activity is concerned and so on, real economic activity, and you're already watching it, is coming from that phase of decline, which means there are now positive signals for some kind of recovery. I think that, at this point, I would end the rapporteur's report because all the important things were said in the Governor's report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-001-088.u5	Yes, thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening a general debate that I don't have an application for, so I'm ending it. In the detailed debate that I have opened, I will ask you for a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-001-088.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Resolution of the Budget Committee of the 8th meeting of 9 April 2014 on the Czech National Bank Report on Inflation: After the opening words of a member of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank Jiří Rusnok, the report of Mr Beznoska and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. takes note of the Czech National Bank's Inflation Report; II. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation, i.e. the report on monetary developments for the second half of 2013.'; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this report in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-001-088.u7	Yes, thank you. I ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I will ask the Governor, or the rapporteur, if they want final words. Not the rapporteur. The governor does. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-001-088.u8	I'm just allowing myself to clarify the information that was said here. We keep that commitment, but we haven't needed to be on the market in over six months. In fact, the course has been maintained over the past six months on the basis of supply and demand, or market forces. So after the first few days, we don't actually operate on the market anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-001-088.u9	Thank you, Mr. Governor, for the final word. We will therefore vote on the resolution read here by the rapporteur, which means that The Chamber of Deputies takes note of this material. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is 76, registered 155, for 120, against were 2. This proposal was adopted and the motion for a resolution was therefore approved. I'm done discussing point 88. Opening point
