ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u1	64. Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava and on the amendment of Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended /house print 250/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 250/1. The motion submitted is justified by Senator Pavel Eybert, whom I welcome among us. Please, Senator, you have the floor. And I ask the House to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I have the task of familiarising you with the Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava. Why does the Senate come up with this bill? [[There's noise in the room.]] A number of public hearings and seminars on the issues of the Šumava National Park have been held in the Senate over the past years. A number of committees repeatedly in past years -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u3	I apologize, Senator, once again I ask the House to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u4	A number of committees have repeatedly visited Šumava National Park in recent years and the members of the committees have discussed these problems. The senators felt very sorry that nature, forest systems in recent years, suffered very much that in Sumava in the national park more than 20,000 hectares of spruce forest had dried up due to an uncontrolled crust-calamity. Since none of the drafts of the Šumava National Park Act has yet been approved and the final proposal prepared by the Chamber of Deputies in the last term of office has ended with its end, twenty senators have decided to lift, complete and submit this proposal for discussion in the Senate. It is a law in all necessary ways negotiated and approved according to the applicable rules. The law was worked by the Ministry of Environment, the National Park Council of Šumava, the National Park Administration of Šumava, mayors, representatives of municipalities in the national park and both regions on whose territory the national park is located. He's been through a whole series of approval procedures as necessary. There's no other way if you want to follow the legal procedure. That this was the case and that, as the municipalities and the regions confirm, you have in their statements that you have received. Still, we senators, the Senate, are being attacked by the fact that we have come out to meet some owners and developers in determining the zonation, which is completely beyond reality. Zoning was agreed by the National Park Administration of Šumava with the mayors, councils already in 2013, when no one knew that we as Senate would be filing a bill. We've taken it because it's the only way to realize the process of ionization. The zoning in the park extends from 13 per cent to 26 per cent against the current state of the first zone, with only 4 per cent of these 26 per cent being possible to intervene in such a way as to stabilise and meet the requirements of the first zone and to be able to maintain independently in this mode. Further, it predestins 8 percent of the area of the Šumava National Park into the second zones - from the first zones to the second zones, at the horizon of the care plan. At the same time, the ionization of this multiple enlargement of the first zones reduces the number of first zones from 135 to 35, because today's small and numerous islands of the first zones act as the growing plants of the leek-eater without the possibility of good protection of the surrounding forest called. buffer zones. Where there is movement from areas from the second zone to the third zone, but also the other way round, these modifications occur in agreement with the National Park Administration of Šumava, representatives, mayors, park councils always according to valid and approved territorial planning documentation. It is only about 20 hectares of the 68,000 hectares of the Šumava National Park. The opponents of this law say that two thirds of the area of the park will be built after this law has been approved. It's a completely false statement. The law says that nothing outside the nature conservation facilities must be built in the first zones, the second zones can be placed and allowed only what is not contrary to the park's mission, and in practice that means that the National Park Administration of Šumava issues binding, I repeat the binding opinions on everything, anything and anyone who asks. Without her consent, no one is legally building anything in the park. In third zones, which account for less than 5 per cent of the park's territory and are built or stopable territories, previously intraviles of municipalities or territories so modified that they cannot be reinserted into the second or first zone, only what is in accordance with the applicable planning documentation may be authorised. Here, too, the State Administration of the Šumava National Park, as well as all other bodies of the state administration and institutions, comments on everything. Without the approval of the National Park State Administration, you can't really do anything in the national park. You can't set track tracks, you can't do geological surveys, you can't make changes in the use of areas, and therefore you can't make changes in territorial plans if you don't have the consent. Finally, these conditions are identical in the current government regulation, which established the Šumava National Park. In order to ensure at least minimum access to the first zones, in accordance with the park's mission, the law proposes a basic route network in the park territory, which the visitor will be able to move around. This route network is to be marked by park management and supplemented according to changes. Entering the first zones outside this forest network will only be allowed to manage the park. The exemption is made up of residents with permanent residence, landowners or tenants, public authorities, administrations and workers of the rescue integrated system. In the care of the forest is followed according to the general principle, i.e. according to Act No. 289/1995 Coll., the so-called Forest Act and its provisions on special purpose forests, with the priority of Act 114 of 1992, Section 22 on the conservation of nature and landscape in the first zones. This is again a consensus with the current legal situation, which is under the regulation of the government by which the park was established. In agriculture, according to the draft law, meadows and pastures are used for extensive livestock farming in accordance with the ecologically tolerable level of load established with regard to the care plan in the national park by the management of the park. Other non-forest and non-agricultural land may also be used only in accordance with the applicable land planning documentation. Since the territory of the Šumava National Park has undergone three massive depopulations - the displacement of Czech inhabitants at the beginning of World War II, the displacement of German inhabitants at the end of World War II and the third time when the border zone was created after 1948 - a number of land belonging elsewhere to residents, legal persons, municipalities, the property of the Czech Republic, its entities. As is known, the State does not pay real estate tax for its properties. This significantly reduces the incomes of municipalities and causes them this situation and problems as well as a number of other problems in terms of community care. For this reason, we propose by law the transfer of some land to the property of municipalities from state property. This is mostly based on current legal standards, but it is a long, administratively demanding process. This would simplify bureaucracy. For the same reasons, we also propose a financial contribution of CZK 500 per year for each hectare of cadastral territory of municipalities located in the park. The state in these cadastrals owns the prevailing percentage of areas and does not always care for them to be a general satisfaction - it doesn't cut grass, nettles, bowls, it doesn't keep roads. [[15.40 hours]] The mayor, the council must not spend money on the maintenance of foreign property. The municipalities in the Šumava National Park are at a disadvantage from this extensive state property in their cadastrals, which is why the Senate proposes a reduction in state ownership where the state does not need it, and it does not care about such property badly. The Act addresses extraordinary events in the park territory, transitional provisions, repealing provisions and in its second part, the last amendment to Act No. 114/1992 Coll., then corrects the error when the amendment has not consistently reflected rights and obligations in relation to regions. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on the first day of the second month following its publication. Why deal with the National Park Sumava by special law and not generally by amendment of Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation? Because Sumava National Park is a phenomenon that deserves it. There are a number of reasons. With his size, for example. It is much larger than the area of all three other national parks combined. Even the area of two of them, Bohemian Switzerland and Podyjské park, is still smaller than the area of one single Šumava village - Modrava. Another reason is that the administrative office can only be established by law and the National Park Administration of Šumava is an administrative office and is established only by government regulation. All her decisions so far could easily be challenged and probably won. For another reason, I also see that Šumava National Park is the only one in the Czech Republic, but also elsewhere, it has built territories and can be stopped, i.e. intravilány, part of the park. Law opponents often point out the Bavarian National Park, which is several times, about five times larger than the Šumava National Park, and within the park there is only one village, but it is not part of the park. The most important reason for adopting the law is that ecosystems in Sumava, especially the forest, need long-term stability in their care. It is not possible for every change in the political leadership of the state, the Ministry of the Environment, the Chamber of Deputies, but also the management of the park to change the plan of care. If the law does not define what and how it applies, then it is easy by regulation of the government, the Minister of the Environment, to change the size of the zones, the ways of management, causing enormous damage, such as the decision of Mr Bursík's former environmental minister, when after Kyrill and Emma decided to leave more than 350 thousand metres of semi-mechanical timber without remediation in the other zones, even if the remediation could and should have been legally implemented. The subsequent barking calamity then meant the already mentioned drying of more than 20,000 hectares of the grown spruce forest and subsequent extraction for several years in volumes of more than 300 thousand full-meters of wood annually - extraction in the extent never seen before. The annex to the law is the verbal definition of the borders of the Šumava National Park, the second is the graphic definition of the borders of the Šumava National Park - and it must be said that the law proposes the existing border. The third annex is the zoning, where areas of zones I are marked, i.e. 26 per cent of the area of the Šumava National Park, zones II. A, which would in the area 8 percent of the area of the Šumava National Park would pass to I. zones, zones II. B, which will remain in II. zones, approximately 61 per cent of area, and III. zones which account for 5% and remain in III. zones. Another annex is the basic road network without which areas of the I. zones would remain completely unavailable. Here, too, we are in favour of this annex being part of the law and cannot repeat situations where somebody invented that, in order for more wilderness to be in Sumava, it will debug asphalt roads that have been there for many decades because tourists have been walking on them, which is said to bother the grouse, which is said to be okay with digging and destroying the roads. It just happened to go wrong, and it didn't happen. The bill does not conflict with the law in force in the Czech Republic. It has a state budget cost of 34 million. CZK 22 for 22 municipalities as compensation for non-collection of real estate tax from large areas owned by the State. The bill is filed as a result of a long series of meetings of municipalities, regions, park councils, then park administration, management of the Ministry of Environment and Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The fact that President Zeman is against him is not because he thinks the law is insufficient to protect the nature of the Šumava National Park, but on the contrary, it seems to him that it protects it too much and to a large extent. I don't think you've heard that much from the media. On the other hand, some associations, e.g. Rainbows wish to be strictly protected by an even larger part of the Šumava National Park, and will never be satisfied if more than 50 percent of the territory of the Šumava National Park is not in zones I. Senators see this bill as a socially acceptable compromise. The municipalities were long prevented from agreeing with 26 percent I. zones and then 34 percent I. zones. They reduced their demands and met the requirements of the associations. However, they are unwilling to lower anything and insist stubbornly on their ideas. They're clumsy, lying, and falsely arguing against the law. Like you, the senators received hundreds and hundreds of emails, but mostly only from a few units of computers, as lobbyist pressure in favor of their opinions. The senators haven't succumbed to them, and I hope you won't give in to them and release the law until further reading, if any. adjust it in the next reading to an even more acceptable condition. I can tell you that in the Senate, I will do everything possible to complete this process, which we have owed to Šumava National Park for over 22 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u5	I thank Senator Eybert. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, I'd like to make one point about my predecessor. He mentioned that the Šumava National Park is five times smaller than the Bavarian National Park... That's where you're gonna say it's five times bigger. [[Senator Eybert.]] According to the latest figures, the Bavarian Forest is about a third of the Šumava National Park. That's just a point of fact. Well, we got a rather explosive topic on the table, at least judging by the number of different emails and letters I ran out of. I guess you're out, too. I wouldn't speculate whether these are statements from a vending machine or if they're real people. I've been trying to write back some of the e-mails, and these people have responded, so I'd leave these speculations aside, whether they're some kind of generated fake addresses or not. But let's get back to the law. My previous speaker here said the law was well discussed. So I myself took part in the last parliamentary term of the ministerial proposal at the Ministry for Minister Chalupa, and I must say that there was a much larger spectrum of different groups than the Senator said. On the one hand, various civil associations, either from one side or from the other, were not only representatives of, say, green initiatives, but also representatives of, for example, the opponent, when we take the side of the conflict or the dispute, there were representatives of the scientific community, universities. So I kind of miss this here. And here I would have the first complaint to discuss this draft - that, in fact, there was not a fully respected procedure that lays down a general rule of law, which is Law 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape, which clearly states that when discussing such a draft, the public should be involved and it should be discussed with the public. I respect that there have been participation in the community, the region, but I also miss the other subjects that have something to say about it. [[15.50 hours]] Of course, I respect that this law is in a way controversial precisely because there are various interests. It must be said that each of the interest groups has a different view of how the national park should look. Another view has municipalities, another view has regions, another view has state nature protection, another view has civil associations. I believe that the view of national nature protection should be first, and then only the others. You can disagree with me or the other way around, but it's my opinion on the matter. Now we're going to go to the law itself. The law is quite brief. I see it as the third attempt in the last three years to give some sort of separate law to the national park. The question is, do we really need it or not? The park was declared a government decree in 1991, similar to the Podyjí National Park. There is a variety of announcements here, because, for example, the Czech Switzerland National Park has been declared by law, but again I believe that this should be addressed by the Ministry by some umbrella standard, which would then determine what individual laws should look like, and not that we will start on the basis of various initiatives, albeit well-intentioned, to make laws for each park separately. As far as paragrafo is concerned, the first paragraph of this Act, which is presented by the Senate, essentially determines the purpose, subject matter and declaration of why the park is actually declared. I've noticed various complaints from different sides about formulation, but basically, I think we could leave it that way. Where there is a slight discrepancy, the use of terms is repeated in other paragraphs of this law. If you know Law 114, there are explanations in the first paragraphs of the various terms that are then further used there, which is not quite clearly defined here. And that's one of my other complaints. Then we have the definition of the national park in Section 2, which then happens in the annex. Let's leave it at that. I think we can agree on that. Then we have Section 3, which sets up national park management. There it is also a standard paragraph where the administration is established. The following is Section 4, where the national park care plan and the national park breakdown are included. Again, there is a problem with deadlines. Terms that are not explained in advance are used, which can be misleading. I also think there's a rather questionable determination of the ionization. I believe that this should rather than the law be determined by some sub-legal standard. It's a matter of opinion, but I have this attitude about it. Then there is Section 5, which specifies the basic protective conditions. It refers directly to Law 114. Isn't that right? Yes. The next is Section 6. It then lays down closer protective conditions and, in some cases, it doubles with basic protective conditions, which would probably be possible to solve. It's not such a big deal. What was said as a further complaint is that, on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Then here we have § 7, which regulates the entry and movement of persons in the territory of the national park. Here we agree on a broad platform that entry should be allowed under certain conditions even into the first zones. I take the view that nature needs to be shown, I have no problem with that. I believe that a judgmental person does not go where there is nothing, which means that he is going through some impenetrable forest, which is probably what few will do, so this can be accepted in some way. However, what I see as a contradiction is the establishment of a network of paths. And I guess this is where we disagree. I think it's a clash of what we call executives and too legislative. I think this should be dealt with in executives, that is, the power of executives and not directly by law. Then we have § 8 which deals with the care of the forest. As the senator has already said here, it's a matter of law. First, the Forest Act and also Act No. 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape, which speaks of forests of special destination, including forests in national parks, which obviously have a different regime than forests of economic nature. And here's where I miss the reference to this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 is a reference to special laws, there's a law on forests, but I'm missing the hundred and twenty-four, which I think would have to be supplemented in some way. Of course, the fact that it is being followed by the Forest Act is basically mentioned in the Forest Act, but when it is written here, I have no objection to it. What can become a conflict, however, is paragraph 4, which actually determines the exercise of hunting rights or the possibility of hunting and there is no specific definition. [[paragraph]] That means it could probably be there in the first zones. [[unintelligible]] I didn't find it there. Maybe the senator will explain it, or I don't know, but I see it as a contradiction. I see all of this as a conflict with the European directive on the protection of avian sites and, on the one hand, the protection of biotopes of specially protected animal species. But it may still be explained. I don't want to fight this here. Then we have Section 9, which concerns agriculture. I don't think I see any significant conflict there. Section 10 concerns other land, i.e. land outside the forest and outside the agricultural soil fund. Also probably without any more pronounced complaint. The following is Section 11 concerning the transfer of land to municipalities. Here again, I see a certain risk that there might be a re-sale of land, for example, after they are transferred to the municipalities, perhaps it would be more precise to formulate here. I see this as a risk and a lack of this law. We have here already mentioned contribution to the municipalities to increase the performance of the state administration in § 12. Here we are once again getting into some disproportion with other national parks, although they are smaller, as the Senator rightly said, but I don't think we can do that by favouring one community against another. It is also a question of whether anyone has calculated it - it is certain impacts on the state budget. The fact that municipalities are in the national park means that there are restrictions at a certain level, on the other hand, it brings them some new possibilities. We all know that there is potentially greater tourism than in other municipalities. Once again, we are facing a certain conflict with other municipalities, although I perceive that there is a limit to this, but on the other hand, the municipalities also have other opportunities, unlike the municipalities outside the national park. Section 13 on emergencies in the territory of the national park. I think this section is almost useless. I'd say it's covered by the Integrated Rescue System Act or the Fire Protection Act. I don't know if it's strictly necessary to include it in the National Park Act. Then it is § 14, which includes transitional provisions. Section 15 of the exciting provision that interferes with the regulation by which the National Park of Šumava was declared. And then here we have efficiency - § 17. Sorry, Section 16, which includes changes in the general standard, which is Law No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation. And then here we have § 17, which concerns efficiency. I believe that there is quite a large number of minor reservations, although the standard is, of course, processed in some way. I know that my colleagues from the Senate were working on this, that there was also some commentary procedure from municipalities, regions, but I would nevertheless advocate that this standard be completed. If no one else suggests it, I'll suggest a re-evaluation. For now, I think that's all I'm gonna do, and I'm gonna let the debate take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u7	I thank the rapporteur for his comprehensive report. I am opening a general debate in which, first of all, only Mr František Laudát, followed by Mr Okamura and Vice-President Filip. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to technically mark one of the nests, as the senator said. The Committee on Petitions received a petition. I think there were about 22,000 letters against this law in this form. By the time we discussed it, it had already been signed in accordance with the rules of over 30,000, they were not recognized. If we were to include electronic consent to this petition, we are now approaching some 50,000. I'd ask the senator not to say this here if the e-mails went or didn't come from one of the nests. I don't even have time to investigate. Apparently some developers do. And I would just like to say to you, technically, that the Committee on Petitions has agreed with the objectives of this petition, and we have also adopted the relevant resolution. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u9	I thank Mr Laudát for his point of view. Now with priority rights, President Okamura, followed by President Filip. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate Bill on the National Park of Sumava is based on drafts drawn up by former Minister Chalupa behind the ODS and the Pilsen Regional Authority, that is to say ČSSD and KSČM. In the Senate it was negotiated by Senator Jirsa, a South Bohemian ODS, a close associate of South Bohemian entrepreneur Pavel Dlouhý. The proposal makes way for further development. It allows up to two thirds of the area of the national park to develop projects and, on the contrary, does not give space to wildlife, of course in favour of mining companies. Nearly two thirds of the national park thus opens up to development projects. In particular, 65 per cent of the area of the national park will be able to place buildings, and when I quote by law, in accordance with the territorial planning documentation - § 6 para. 5 - or buildings used for tourism, sport, if their location is not contrary to the mission of the national park - § 6 para. 4. But the mission - as further stated in the law - of the national park is to be vague support, among other things, when I evaluate the formulation, the sustainable development of local authorities. Nowhere in the law, however, is it said what sustainable means, so it can build virtually anything. The law explicitly extends the building zones by making different profits, I would say, even media controversial figures, that's my opinion. Senators suggest adding lucrative plots in the meadows around Filip's Huta, Stožka and České Žlebů, near Kvilda and Srní, above Čenkova pilou, in Nové údolí, etc. Together, they want to reintegrate plots into the building zone, which would be enough for about seven thousand new houses. Of course, the law also very much, I would say, on a clear path from my point of view, leads the land out of state property by transfer to municipalities that can sell them out in turn. The municipality is entitled to a free transfer of each state plot to their cadastral if it was included in the zoning plan as such. built-up territories and, if requested within a period of one year - Section 11. Nowhere in the explanatory memorandum is it stated how many plots or at what value the State should surrender. In the past, when the municipalities in Šumava received free state land, they sold it to developers. To this day, by the way, there are billboards around the roads offering construction plots. The proposal therefore goes to speculators with land, since it proposes the transfer of land around municipalities to so-called. third, i.e. stopable zones, where it is easy to convert them to lucrative construction plots. According to information, some construction companies, real estate agencies, etc., including people with personal ties to politicians, such as the counsellor of the said Senator ODS Jirsa. It is noteworthy that the government has given a clearly negative opinion on the proposal, but last time the government MEPs voted to postpone the first reading. In particular, the ČSSD is not united in this. Part of the ČSSD close to the South Bohemian governor supports the Senate proposal for some reason. Another proposal was prepared by the Ministry of Environment regarding Šumava. This wants to clarify the rules for all national parks in the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, which is logical from our point of view. Now he's in interdepartmental commentary. We'll see what falls out of it, but the proposal we've seen so far is far from as bad as the senate one. It will probably need to be improved in the next discussion, but we definitely think that such a type of law should be passed through a standard legislative process and inter-departmental commentary procedure. In Dawn, we clearly believe that the Senate bill that we are discussing here now needs to be rejected as quickly as possible, already at first reading. So we are proposing rejection at first reading, because through it, in our opinion, the advocates of this proposal are putting pressure on the Ministry of the Environment to reduce protection more. So we're making a motion to dismiss at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u11	Thank you to President Okamur. I'm registering his motion to dismiss the bill in the first reading. In addition, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip is registered with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u12	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, allow me first to quote one article from the constitutional system of the Czech Republic, which is Article four: Obligations can only be imposed on the basis of the law, within its limits and only with the maintenance of fundamental rights and freedoms. Article 4 (1) (a) I'm not quoting 1 any more. In 1998, I promised my constituents in southern Bohemia that I would try to transform a government regulation from 1992 which did not correspond to this constitutional article in force since 1. 1. 1993, National Park Act. I tried three times. The first attempt in 1999 ended by rejecting the detailed debate in the second reading on the proposal of then fellow Member Ambrozek, later the Minister of the Environment, who was famous for the greatest axe in the Environment Fund, which was ever stuck in this fund, and by drawing funds far beyond its term of office. I tried my second time in 2002. I also finished at first reading, and yet I tried for the third time in 2006, respectively. 2007, before my turn, for ministering to Minister Bursík, and I ended up at first reading rejecting the bill. And this is where I'm going to take a turn. From that moment on, I didn't write any law, I supported every bill that was submitted here, even though I did not agree with its content. Because I believe that all the thievings, I repeat, the thievings, the crimes that take place in the territory of the National Park of Sumava, are due to the fact that this national park is not governed by law. I note that if we want to comply with constitutional procedures, it is necessary to remember every national park by law, even if in such a law we would only modify the subject matter of the protection and boundaries of the park, because when a new government comes in, when it comes to the regulation of the government, of course, any new government can change the limits of the park freely without the consent of the legislators and without looking at the way in which the territory is managed. I, indeed, do not agree with the content of what the senators have adopted, that is my right, and in the end it is also my duty as a Member elected in the South Bohemia Region to deal with it, but on the other hand I cannot remain silent about the fact that there are some aspects of the proposal for rejection or recast. Please, if we do not continue as a legislature to do what is happening in the Šumava National Park, what has been happening so far will continue to happen. [[16.10 hours]] I could name what led me to cooperate for the last time on the text of a bill that is being presented here, and that was the disastrous situation that occurred there for Mr Bursík's ministering. The costs for the operation of the park ranged from CZK 320 million to CZK 900 million per year at a yield of approximately CZK 150 to 200 million per year. So the annual loss was at least CZK 200 million from the management of the park and also amounted to CZK 700 million, i.e. the cost of the state was about CZK 1 billion in the worst period. Meanwhile, I note that mining in the National Park of Sumava goes far beyond mining from the times of real socialism. If you want to measure this, please read the fair annual reports on the management of the park and the mining volumes and compare it with the volumes of wood-mining from 1989. You'll be appalled. This place sells below the price of 600 years old spruce of the highest quality resonance wood, forgive me, at the price of wood hit by a lychee. Excellent idea! Who do you think arranged it? Department of Environment under the reign of Martin Bursík. And we are not able, as legislators, as an organ that is the one who gives or does not give confidence to the government, but the one who is obliged to control it, to do something like that. And I insist that the Chamber of Deputies is responsible for its control activities and for controlling the functioning of the Government of the Czech Republic, including the Ministry of Environment. I do not want to interfere with the environmental committee's competence here, I do not want to interfere with what should be done, for example, by the inspection committee or any other committee of this House, or by the budget or agricultural committee, but in any case, we need to think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to quote the individual things that I have accumulated since 1998 to the Šumava National Park, I can. It would be a very long performance and I have no interest in presenting it before the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and I will present it at any time when discussing any proposal on the Šumava National Park in any committee of the Chamber of Deputies. I am saying this because it is not possible to accept that there will be a kind of general law or general provisions in Law 114, i.e. the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, which will say what is the subject of protection in national parks. Believe it or not, even a elementary school student or a high school student knows very well that the subject of protection in the Šumava National Park is something completely different than the subject of protection in the national park, for example, in Labské sandstones. Please consider that this is the largest protected area not in the Czech Republic, but in Central Europe, if not the whole of Europe. The park's dimensions exceed only those areas that, for example, incorporate the Alps, which are completely forestless and where it really is not possible to raise so much money on one tree, which has 30 cubic meters of land area, or to make so much money. In this respect, then, frankly, I will not comment on the content of the bill and I will vote in any case that the law goes through the second reading, so that the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies deal with it, because every time we reject it, there will be another disaster in the Šumava National Park. It's a financial disaster for the state. For the Czech Republic. And believe me or not, we're about to discuss the state budget at second reading, and we're going to argue about millions, maybe tens of millions, some hundreds of millions, while every year, hundreds of millions of dollars on the fact that there's no law on the National Park of Šumava, we're going to lose, because it's not clear what the ratio between the forestry business is, if you want a forest economic plan, to express it exactly according to the law, and the care plan. And the difference, believe it or not, goes to the Minister of the Environment. He hasn't even been able to read the whole thing yet, what other people know about it since the time it's been running there since 1990 in this way. However, it is about preventing and actually complying with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, Article 4 (1) of the Treaty. 1 in order to prepare a law at the Šumava National Park, which will compromise the majority of the Chamber of Deputies, it will not be a Senate proposal, and the senators will not count on it, because they know that there will be a debate here that has a different dimension than that of the Senate, and it will have a different dimension than the petition that I think was mentioned here by both the rapporteur and colleague František Laudát. I can make it clear that at that time there were 42.5 thousand signatures under the petition and that none of the 42.5 thousand people imagined that the legislature would wrap up their work and not prepare such a law. Because it's not about not having the law. It's about the exact rules that some smart guys won't be able to go around, whether they're miners, so-called. Environmentalists or developers, but in this territory, which includes over 40,000 hectares of area - among other things, the damaged area is almost 50 percent, over 22,000 hectares to understand each other, without intervention! That's a great idea! Among other things, when someone charges damage to us, for example, cross-border, because the bug really, it doesn't matter whether it flies to Austria, Germany or only flies in the Czech Republic, it really doesn't know the boundaries, and in this respect we risk not being able to stand the responsibility of our own citizens, let alone our neighbours. So I ask you to consider your arguments, sometimes very petty, to whether or not we should adopt laws, whether the law is good or bad. I ask the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this bill without prejudice and be willing together with the Ministry of the Environment, together with those involved in the South Bohemia and the Pilsen Region, to apply some legislation in this territory that will have sufficient legal power to protect this territory, to protect people's lives there, and to be able to live up to our obligations. This isn't about my commitment to my constituents. It's about us being able to do this as a legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u13	I thank Vice-President Filip. Now with priority rights, the Minister of the Environment. And before I give him my word, Mrs Lorencová withdraws her apology from 16 to 18 today, on the contrary, the Minister of the Interior, Milan Chovanec, apologizes today from 16.30 pm for work reasons. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I joined my office less than nine months ago, my predecessor, Tomáš Podivínský, is not here today, I think, and other people have warned and said, you also have a problem with Sumava. And I was saying, for God's sake, what a problem there should be, because it's beautiful and there's nothing fundamental going on in there from an environmental point of view. And then I realized it gradually. At the beginning, I made the mistake of not going there as much as I should have. I had other concerns, but then I took the time. Šumava is for us, we are talking about the national park, i.e. almost 70,000 hectares, is a kind of icon of nature for the Czechs. We've got it buried inside somewhere like those dark green, dark, impenetrable forests, really clostermannian, as we know from Karel Klostermann's books, but it's also a line of conflict. It is a line of conflict between a large majority of municipalities, and it is necessary to say, and colleagues, I think they are also upstairs from the towns around Šumava, so they know that I am very often talking to them. And municipalities have long complained that they cannot develop, that there is higher unemployment, or high unemployment, that prosperity has been promised to them, and it has somehow failed. [[16.20 hours]] On the other hand, there are a number of domestic and foreign nature conservation organisations that, and this has already been said, have long-term advocated for the first zone, the non-impact zone, which now amounts to about 13 percent, to extend to 50 percent, relatively soon. That the main mission of the national park is to protect the interests of nature and landscape and, above all, critically endangered species of flora and fauna. And then there are the interests of particular people, real estate owners who want to profit logically from their point of view, i.e. build other possible cable cars, slopes or hotels. Then there are interests of more than two million visitors to Sumava, whether domestic or foreign, who come there every year and expect something from the visit. To make matters worse, in 2007 after the Kyrill Orcan, which significantly dislocated the relatively fragile balance, I agree with that, it caused large seminals and then crusty calamity, or subsequently the crusty calamity came and raised a completely cardinal question, whether we are actually mentally prepared to leave a large part of the national park so-called wilderness, that means not interfering in natural processes, that we will actually see thousands of hectares of dry forest. I think that maybe that's the problem that a lot of people have the biggest conflict with, that we imagine the wilderness as a forest, like Boubín. But it's not like that. That's where you're gonna come to Poledník or Triples, and you're really gonna see those dry Mayas standing there. There's something going on downstairs, it's getting better downstairs, but it's gonna take decades for the forest to grow up. And those people are quite logical on the one hand saying, we don't want to wait, we want the green forest now, don't take it away from us, we don't want to wait for it in 30 years. I am not surprised at the municipalities and regions, and we have had so many discussions together that they want stability because ministers, politicians, mayors, directors come and go, but Šumava remains. And all these processes have enormous inertia, and I have clearly repeatedly said, for me, there is no Sumava laboratory bowl where I will observe what is happening, because I have too much humility for natural processes and also for the landscape. That means, we should definitely be heading for something that's a good law, which is kind of an idol. For 20 years, we've been going to pray here. When we were given the task of dealing with it, I believe that the compromise - and as I said, I have been in Sumava quite often lately - that the compromise that will be acceptable to everyone, in the end almost all those who do not want to primarily prey from Šumava, but really want to live there, want to visit the unique wildlife that we will no longer find anywhere today, but also want tourists who come to live in the forest, so I believe that the compromise exists, that the compromise is hiding in something else, even though it has been mentioned several times today with a certain kind of pejorative touch that it cannot solve the problem of Šumava. We have prepared a novel of the hundred and fourteenth, the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, which, I believe, is dealing with the vast majority of the things that mayors and others want us to do today, on the one hand, to open Šumava to tourists far more than it is up to today, we in a revolutionary way in the novel, which should come into government within three to four weeks and subsequently to the Chamber of Deputies, we are also opening up those inaccessible, inaccessible first zones to tourists today, and on the other hand, we believe that this will also mean a greater effect for the municipalities and that even the municipalities will have greater powers in the new system to decide. Decide on things that concern them, both the ionization and the so-called calm areas, more than they have so far. We have been preparing this amendment for several months in very intensive communication with all the groups: municipalities, regions, NGOs, universities, scientists, lawyers. I am convinced that Šumava today represents something unique, which now needs certain common sense from all of us, to get rid of ideology, to breathe out, to look at what happened there and to some extent dislocated the balance, for example after the crusty calamity, and that is why, among other things, we also put it in our novel - and that is also what the municipalities are calling for, inter alia, for stability, that as soon as the zoning was discussed again - and I was the one who stopped the already discussed sonning in Sumava, because I was convinced that we could not do it under the old law, and the municipalities were not satisfied with it, and it was up to my personal decision. At this point, we are ready to start a discussion with all the municipalities from the beginning of the zoning debate, and once we reach a compromise, we want to go directly into the law, or we want to propose that there is stability directly in the law, perhaps for 15 years, when the resonation will simply not change. That means, whether Brabec or whoever else is here, that won't be here at the time, so basically what the communities are calling for is that they don't want any political or other change to change matters around the national park. All of this will be in our complex novel. It is an amendment that will cover all national parks on the one hand, but each park will be declared separately under the law and will have its so-called closer protective equipment in the amendment individually. That means it's going to solve what's called "The Sumava" is specific. And of course the closer protective conditions within Šumava will be different than for Podyjí or for Czech Switzerland or for the Krkonoše National Park. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion. I think there's a chance that we might be able to reach a compromise that we might call a good law for the Sumava National Park. But for me, with all due respect for the petitioners, even though I understand what led them to this proposal, among other things, in the reference explanatory memorandum, it was also that they assumed that the government would not get to this law, so the Senate proposal came. But the government will get to it very soon, and I am convinced that our proposal is better in many ways. That is also why, of course, at this point, I cannot be in favour of the Senate proposal. And I don't want to comment on all the reservations that I have about it, both systemic and factual, many of them have fallen. Finally, I would like to comment on what President Filip said because it concerns me as Minister of the Environment. I believe that the problem of managing a national park is not at all, as it is in life, whether it is declared by law or not. And he will be declared law if our novel passes. All parks would be declared by one law. But that it's always about people, those particular people who lead things, and either they can or they can't do it, and either they steal or they don't steal, and either they're experienced or inexperienced, either they're ideological or they're pragmatic. This has become clear in the management in recent years. And I say, if we find - and of course we've been doing audits and we've been doing audits on that past period - if we find specific faults for specific people - and those audits have been there over the past period x - we're immediately giving incentives to law enforcement authorities. Because it's not about whether we have it in our hands like the House. I am also responsible for managing the national park because it is my supervisory organization, as I am responsible for the State Environmental Fund, the Czech Inspection and other supervisory organisations. If there's a bad CEO and it doesn't work, I'm just gonna trade it. If he's not a good manager, I'll trade him. If I feel like he's stealing, I'll just report him to the police. It doesn't change whether it's a law or a decree. That's my basic credo. And I always have, and I always will. It's about people, it's not about trials, it's not about laws, it's not about decrees. It's about who runs the place and what he wants to do with it. So believe me, I wouldn't dare tear down something built here if I didn't think we had a better, better complex design. I'm convinced we have him, and in the next few weeks, you'll see him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u15	Thank you, Minister. The first duly registered is Mr Michal Kučera. - Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, the President of the ODS Parliamentary Club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u16	I think Mr Kučera will be next. With the key position of our club, Mr. Zahradník will speak, so I will just do what has been said so far. I understand what the Minister said here, but at this point we are talking about a proposal that is not yet here in the Chamber of Deputies. The minister said he was better. Well, it could be. Now I really can't tell if it is or isn't. And if we reject this bill today, nothing will ever be solved. I think it is better to release the method for second reading, to extend the deadline for committee discussions. Meanwhile, the Government's bill can come and then we can compare the two versions in the committees and have a rational debate. This seems like a meaningful procedure to me. You, Minister, said you wouldn't vote for it today. But we're not voting on it today. We're not going to vote today at all whether we accept the law or not. Today we will only vote on whether we will let him in the committees and whether we will release the debate. I think it is also fair to our colleagues in the Senate - when I was looking at the jinn, it was actually supported by almost all the senators regardless of their political affiliation - to let it go, to extend the deadline, I hope that the petitioners would agree to this, for committee discussions, and in the meantime you will have the room for the government to discuss your proposal and then we decided on both. That's how we have one novel that's criticized by someone, someone defended. I do not want to lead to this territorial debate, which will be led by Mr Zahradník, but rather by procedure and process. I find it better as a co-worker to our colleagues in the Senate. It's not a threat. Today we're not going to decide whether or not we're going to accept the law. If we accidentally reject him today, nothing will ever be solved. The problem remains, the opinions are quite irreconcilable. If we give enough time in the committees, I believe those opinions can come together. Everyone involved, as the rapporteur said, all interest groups are enchanted by wanting the best for Šumava, I have no reason not to trust them, so let's create space and time for them to look for solutions that may not suit everyone in a hundred percent, but no one will feel completely defeated that his opinion has not been heard at all. I'm sorry I took advantage of my priority rights like this, but that seems to me, uh, procedurally, right. I say, for our club, with our opinion, Mr. Zahradník will come forward. So I'm just asking you to consider this procedural option. And really for everyone - we're not voting on the bill today. Today, we will either give room to committees for some detailed debate, and with an extension of the deadline, we could wait for the government's proposal for the amendment of the hundred and twelveth, and possibly lead the debate to both of these amendments, because at the moment, we, who are in opposition benches, can hardly say that the Minister's proposal will be better or worse. Maybe it'll be better. I don't want to say in advance that it will automatically be bad, just because we are in opposition and will be presented by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u17	Thank you to President Stanjur. Mr. Michal Kučera, now announced. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u18	Hello again, and thank you for your word. I am beginning to understand Mr Komárek, who is here in favour of priority rights. However, it will at least give me the opportunity to respond to my previous speakers. I was intrigued by the confession of Minister Brabec, who here told us that nine months ago he knew nothing about the issue of Sumava. I think it's an interesting confession from the Minister of the Environment. I would also like to respond to Mr Filip, who spoke here about the management of the Šumava National Park, and in my speech I would like to bring a slightly different view of the management of the national park. The national park is a territory which does not serve to achieve an economic result there. National Park is a territory where you just don't manage. Primarily, one does not use it to benefit economically. In the Czech Republic, man manages 98.5 percent of the territory, these are areas where there are no national parks and which are used for farming. It doesn't matter if there's grain growing, mineral mining, landfilling, or building highways. On the other hand, there is a national park in the territory where we do not want to realise the economic yield. It's a bold statement. Some may not like it, but I say we can afford to keep 1.5 percent of our country's territory in a state where we don't manage it. Any educated and cultural society can afford it. And if we agree on this, then the real responsible debate is how much this territory, how much people are supposed to visit this wilderness, to see how nature is being restored, etc. The debate cannot then lead to whether or not there will be new trees planted instead of dried trees. There may also be a debate as to whether there is a need for a separate law on Sumava, or whether to address everything with the amendment to Act No. 114, about the conservation of nature, as the Minister of the Environment has already mentioned, when the amendment is very ambitious and should address not only the zoning in national parks, but also change the approach to the conservation of nature itself. Unlike other national parks, there has been a 20-year debate on how to approach this territory in the Sumava National Park. There are two sides to the barricade. One says it's an economic forest, and it's only a game of nature conservation, that billions of wood rots there, that our ancestors lived there, and that we're supposed to live there today and transform the forest itself. On the other hand, there are conservationists who say, Let's leave it as it is, let's close it down, nature has total freedom, it's going to be 80 percent of the first zone. It is not possible to lean on either side, nor on the other side, a compromise must be sought. Compromise will only be achieved by establishing firm rules and giving way to each party. I dare say that the only correct solution to the situation in Sumava will be one with which neither party will be completely satisfied, because each will have to retreat and seek compromise. On the other hand, there can be no debate as to whether the territory of the national park is to be preferred for active tourism over the nature protection that is there. Some might think it's stupid not to go into the woods because that's where the grouse nests. I don't think so. A grouse belongs in nature just like a man. The last territory we can offer him is the territory of the national park. No one will mind if he can't enter this territory for six months, and then he can go back there for the next six months. There have been many references to the problem of barking. Fortunately, I think this situation has already been resolved. She's done it by nature herself. Fortunately, the calamity itself has ended, and natural cycles, as described by naturalists, have been paid and confirmed. Today, you could say the crust is in standard condition. Today, the forest, which has been affected by the barking calamity, is in such a state that in its place the forest is already growing new and significantly more resilient. Humanity doesn't have to interfere at all. The facts and the real situation are clear. It is only possible that we may remain uncomfortable or not used to it. The damage to bark can be done in the second and above all in the third zone and, of course, it can also be managed there. Sumava is a large territory, not very populated at the moment. However, there are changes going on here as well. Šumava is now very wooded and it has to be said that it has been artificially wooded. There's no doubt about it. But there are also the original marshes, the bogs, for which we can be happy. The National Park is not set up to play nature conservation. The National Park is here to let nature manage itself after human intervention on this territory. We can discuss whether we need a special law for the Šumava National Park, which is necessary to set strict conditions that no one can argue about. No more dedicated opinions or ambiguous interpretations and decisions of the administration and subsequent courts. This should be guaranteed by the newly prepared law. I refer here to the opinions of many experts, among whom I would like to appoint Professor Bedřich Moldan, one of the first environmental ministers who claims that legal regulation should take place in all national parks of the Czech Republic on the same principles and on the same legal basis. It should be dealt with by a comprehensive amendment to Act 114, on the conservation of nature and landscape. This will be a great task for the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister of the Environment. I believe that, in this case, it will not just remain with the ministerial promises. There are a number of reservations about the Senate proposal itself, both from scientific circles and nature conservation. I would also mention some of these reservations here. They've been touched by my previous speakers, some of them I might even repeat. [[16.40 hours]] So, to these reservations. 1. The size of the intervention-free zone is insufficient in the draft law and strongly contradicts scientific knowledge and its legalization would lead to a serious threat to biodiversity in the National Park of Šumava and in the long term to the extinction of many dozens to hundreds of organisms. 2. The proposed bill completely ignores the standards of Central European national parks and does not take into account the recommendations of the International Union of Nature Conservation for Category II - the national park in which the Šumava National Park falls. 3. The third point already mentioned - the relevant provisions of the Senate Act may allow the construction of up to 65 per cent of its size. 4. The Senate Law may allow game hunting throughout the territory of the national park. In conclusion, the municipality is entitled to a free transfer of every state plot on the municipal register. It is clear that Šumava National Park is to be decided by the Parliament of the Czech Republic, because it is not a national park for the inhabitants of Šumava or a park for the Sumava mayors. It's a national park. From the national word, Sumava is a park for our entire nation, for our entire country. That is why it will be decided on by the House and above all, and I am very strongly pointing out this, so there must be a law in which nature protection must be the first place. The dimension of 36 percent of the first zone, with us aspiring to 50 percent, is absolutely correct. Fourteen percent of the first zone is nonsense. Then we don't have to have a national park, then we can turn Šumava into a protected landscape area with some reservations. I repeat once again - legal regulation, yes, but not in the form that goes from the Senate. On the basis of a unanimous agreement at TOP 09, I propose to reject the National Park Act of Šumava at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u19	I thank Mr Kučer. Now with priority rights for the TOP 09 and Mayors František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I apologize very much to those who are duly registered, but since I consider it necessary - it is also appropriate after Mr Kučera's speech - to add and develop in some ways the TOP 09 view as a conservative party on this issue. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the never ending story, the National Park Act of Šumava returns. I believe that the proposed amendment to the Senate Workshop Act is one of the shameful chapters of the current activities of the upper chamber. If we want to maintain honor and fulfill our constitutional promise, let us reject this draft at first reading. I propose that after the general debate, and it has already been concluded here, a motion for rejection should be put to the vote first if there are any other proposals of the type to be put back to the process and so on. The task of the national park is to protect nature in its natural form. It is already less said that we must protect and not interfere with the dynamic processes that are taking place in the protected area. These dynamic processes include sudden or gradual disappearance of old values and subsequent creation of new values. We may like it or not, we certainly must not preserve any current state by suppressing natural dynamics in national parks. Let's have other territories for that. After all, the TOP 09 had in its electoral programme already before the early elections in 2009, a thesis on the protection of the Czech cultural landscape, which of course we understood the natural varied Czech landscape, not Babišův's yellow rape landscape. Protection of dynamic processes in nature is necessary due to the fact that dynamics mercilessly selects non-perspective populations of plants and animals and leaves populations promising. So we have a lab that doesn't cost us anything, and it will tell us whether man-made processes in nature will meet future demands. This comparative criterion between man's activities in nature and natural development may be a matter of being and not being our successors, or even ourselves. The Czech Republic has a consistent protection of Šumava nature a unique, unrepeatable chance to become a very interesting place in this location. But consistent generous protection of nature does not mean that we completely exclude a person from it. It's been dropped. On the contrary, we have several generations of people who have grown up in urban agglomerations, who have already lost ties to nature and respect for the living. Therefore, protected areas should be more open to people's undisturbed access. But it certainly does not include development projects by greedy speculators who want to be rich, but their IQs are not enough to create really beneficial values. So they remain speculating about land or parasitizing on the current values of unbridled economic extraction. Typically it can be traced in a number of Czech and Moravian historical cities. It's called parasitic architecture. No added value, no timeless work, just parasitic on the existing genius loci, places. In the area of nature and landscape, I would call Krkonoše almost a developmental excavation area. They will never fulfill their role in the whole range of national park requirements, at least not in the era of human existence. Now, how conformal is the Senate bill with a conservative view of the protection of Šumava nature and the precautionary principle? Very little or not at all. It is totally unacceptable for any land in the park to be moved to the third zone. It is possible to build in the third zone after the relevant change in the zoning plan. It is unacceptable for miners to have access to the protected area unless it is a threat to the safety of visitors. If the state wants an economic assessment of Sumava, then the most secure business project is to protect its nature and landscape from policies with baroque thinking, from insatiable developers and speculators of all kinds. In explaining its natural development, nature creates an infinitely greater variety of shapes and forms than man's artificially cultivated nature, as we know it from Baroque gardens. Let's not just have everything set up by a man. To your own bill. According to estimates, and it has already fallen, the adoption of the draft would allow up to 65 percent of the park's territory to place buildings. It could, but it didn't have to. It is known that economically or otherwise motivated local politicians and officials will lightly bend the interpretation of the location of the building in accordance with the territorial planning documentation. Mr Okamura mentioned § 6 para. 5. So are buildings serving if they are not contrary to the park's mission. But for how many politicians and officials is the highest mantra the real interest of nature? We're not going to destroy Sumava with a piece of built-up land. But just a little bit here, a little bit there, and it makes Krkonoše and Špindlerův Mlyns two. The authors of the proposal are themselves convinced of the real motivation of the bill, when they include in the national park's mission the promotion of sustainable development of local authorities - § 1 para. 1. A sustainable self-governing community can be if we build a factory there, in the case of Šumava rather hotels, guesthouses, apartments for rich people, who are probably already tired of Špindl. I'm afraid instead of Sumava green, we'll have Sumava speculative. I may see the draft too black, but, as we know, in the Czech boiler anywhere we can theoretically admit the possibility, it is necessary to count on the worst-case scenario. Thus, in the worst-case scenario, according to analysis, by adopting this draft, we would endanger for example part of the lake salt and interforestation with potential cutting, New valley - area development, Bird creek - cutting, Smrčina, mountain - cutting, slope. Canyon Křemlné - chopping, location of Roklanský potok - construction, Hraničník, hill - construction, meadows near Čeňkovy pila - construction, Radvanický ridge - cutting. According to some estimates, the draft could be released into Sumava nature, some number has already fallen, seven thousand projects. I do not have to say what would be left of a unique place of European importance. At the same time, I add that 42,500 people signed the petition against this draft. The Committee on Petitions adopted a resolution on this, and it also did not identify with the opinions that the Šumavák or Jihočech Bohemia probably know what Šumava needs best. We believe that the issue of the protection of Šumava is a nationwide issue, if not a pan-European one. [[16.50 hours]] There is also a problem with § 8 para. 4 about hunting game, but that's probably what the promoter here is going to tell us exactly what that means. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, I answer to those who think that my attitude to the protection of Sumava has made me crazy, that it is not right-wing. On the contrary, conservative, right-wing is the protection of the processes of nature, the conservation of states that are promising, and this law clearly does not correspond to that. If you want to see how Sumava can end up, he can, but he doesn't have to -- but if you're adopting here, right now I'm talking about a government coalition, laws that potentially have something to defend in a number of cases, I'd like to ask, I hope we'll reject this draft, the Minister of the Environment, to stop wiggling, and in this case, and to have our support, he'd rather defend the potential more, even though some negative phenomena may not happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u21	I thank Mr Laudát. Now, Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, we have heard a lecture here about property developers. Well, when arguments are missing, it's always the developers, and I'm not defending them, God forbid, I have no intention of defending developers, but it's like... You can always put it all on. The same thing, when we talk about Brds, of course, developers get in there and they talk about developers all the time. But I'm not defending them. So it's just to the edge. I'm sure you're getting a series of e-mails like me that might go into hundreds today. When you go into those e-mails, it's like, "Don't destroy the Sumava!" and "for the preservation of the National Park of Sumava!" and "please don't sell to Sumava!" and "Save Sumava!". When I look at the e-mail in the text, of course, I can't help but see that all the e-mails come from one place under different addresses, even from the address it can be seen when the address is completely irrelevant and doesn't get out of hand to the other e-mails. Just all these uniformed e-mails that overwhelm our mailboxes. Of course, I don't question anyone's right to his opinion, to a different opinion than I do, but of course, I don't know if those who are signed under those e-mails actually exist. I really doubt it. It was said here from the mouth of President Okamura that the last law which he was, he said from the workshop of the regional office. Well, I'd take the liberty of correcting it. The county office has no legislative initiative. It was from the workshop of the Plzeň Region's representativeship. He was here in the last parliamentary term, he was constantly postponed, constantly removed from the agenda of the meeting, so he finally fell under the table. Basically, this law follows up on what the Plzeň Region has presented here. I would like to say that the Plzeň Region's representativeship, of which I am a member, adopted the declaration to the Šumava National Park in March of this year, where it appeals to the Government of the Czech Republic, to the adoption of the special law on the Šumava National Park. And I must say that both for the bill from the Plzeň Region's representative's workshop and for the declaration at that time, everyone voted on the Plzeň Region's representative's representativeship without distinction from the political parties, so that it cannot be moved, whether or not the party voted otherwise. They all voted for the adoption of the law and for the adoption of the declaration. Václav Šlajs, the mayor of Sušice Petr Motl, Mayor of Klatov Rudolf Salvetr and Mayor of Modrava Antonín Schubert, who is Chairman of the Union of the Municipalities of the National Park of Šumava, signed at the Regional Authority of the Plzeň Region, and I would also like to introduce you to this memorandum. Memorandum of the Governor of the Plzeň Region and mayors of the Šumava National Park. In view of the ever-increasing state of natural wealth in Sumava, the loss of employment opportunities, the stagnating attendance of Šumava and the long-term tide of permanent Šumava inhabitants, mayors of prominent self-governments located in the Sumava region and the Governor of the Pilsen Region issue the following memorandum: 1. Sumava is still suffering. Previously green hills are now dry in many places, Sumava lakes surrounded by healthy forests are past, ancient trees at the springs of Vltava are also just a memory of old times. The gradual nothingness spreads through Šumava. Hills that have lost their healthy forest do not retain water, thus increasing the risk of flooding. Previously, snow melts, which mostly melted later than in the lowlands, so there are greater risks resulting from spring melts. Visitors do not have enough support, on the contrary, they encounter barriers. This Sumava is less attractive to tourists, which is why they stay less and do not return so much. It harms the jobability of locals who logically seek employment elsewhere and leave. The national park lies in the territory of 22 municipalities that need their space for development. 2. However, there are still places in Sumava that have not yet succumbed to nothing - the valley of the river Křemná, Povydří and others. It's still worth trying to fight nothing. It could be worse, and we just don't want that. 3. We insist on the opinion that a long-term strategy for the development of the Šumava National Park should be established, which will not be subject to the political changes that take place at the Ministry of the Environment as managing body. For this reason, it is necessary to establish the functioning of the Šumava National Park in a law that can resist these influences more easily than when the rules of operation are enshrined in legal standards of lower legal force. It is necessary to hear the region's call for content and the form of this legal standard and to take into account the opinion of other experts who do not belong to the activist centre. The request for a special law on Sumava is not unusual. It is just a matter of fulfilling the requirement of current nature conservation legislation, which explicitly states that the national park must be established by law. It is also about the implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which states that rights can only be restricted by law. 4. We, the Sumava mayors and the Governor of the Pilsen Region, are therefore calling for the adoption of the Šumava National Park Act, which will protect the natural wealth of Šumava for future generations, to enable its knowledge to a wide range of visitors and to ensure the region's prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to think about this memorandum, too, and I strongly recommend that we release this bill to second reading so that it can be discussed. I am not saying that the law is absolutely ideal, but also the scope of the committees, the scope of discussion may need to be shifted further, it can possibly improve it. But I think Sumava needs her own law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u23	So Mr Votava's speech forced a shrink of factual remarks. First, Mr Lank, after him Mrs Němcová, then Mr Černoch, then Mr Okamura, then Minister Herman with priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I really have just a factual reminder of the information that has been made here by my previous speaker regarding mass e-mails. I've had enough of them, too, and I admit that at one stage I got to such a stage that I thought to myself: a few more such e-mails and I'm going to vote in favour of Šumava being debugged because it's starting to bother me in a way. I also had my doubts about whether they were some kind of slot machines that sent out these lyrics. [[17,00 hours]] Unlike Mr Votava, I tried one very simple thing and began to write back on the e-mails. Assuming if it's some kind of machine, no one's gonna answer me. Strangely enough, those emails gave me answers that responded to what I wrote, and I had a rather decent conversation with some people there. So I know there are real people behind these e-mails. I can't put my hand in the fire for their intentions being completely pure and sunny, but frankly, I'm not 100% sure about this bill. To be honest, I find it hard to believe that business isn't behind this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u25	Thank you, Mr Lank. Please, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would rather like to respond to the words of a colleague who spoke before Mr Votava, the representative of the TOP 09. On the contrary, I would like to thank Mr Votav for his position in proposing the release of this standard for second reading. I will not repeat what the President of the ODS MP said here that we consider it necessary to talk about this standard. As much as I am not convinced that what we have on the table is ideal, and we will not get anything ideal, because it is too much for us to work out an ideal, so I want to argue with that part of the speech when a colleague here spoke about self-government in the Šumava National Park. That is, the fact that these mayors and people who live in the municipalities affected by the national park probably couldn't handle their territory. That they could destroy the value that nature left for us or the legacy of our predecessors. I'm sure that's not true. Self-management in this national park - as everywhere else in the Czech Republic are people who care about the place where they live. They want them to develop. Tell me why one community outside the national park has the right to develop and the one within it has no right to develop! That doesn't make any sense! I'm arguing with this František Laudát thesis. I do not think that underestimating self-government, underestimating mayors who have been elected, and people who live there and are used to living in nature, are used to living with nature and protecting it, is what should be heard from the Chamber of Deputies. I want to stand up for these people very vehemently, because I have had many opportunities to talk to them in the past, and I know how conceptually, but at the same time constructively, they have approached how the law should look about where they live and want to live in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u27	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. In addition to the factual remark made by Mr Černoch. After that, Mr Okamura. After him, Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u28	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to support the words of my colleague Martin Lank, because what was said here by my colleague Votava, so when we entered the House, more experienced colleagues said that such spams and mass mails were coming. wallpapering. I don't have that feeling here because I have to say that I answered all those e-mails, and if the e-mails are being sent by a robot, it doesn't name you in an e-mail. And the moment you write to this e-mail and this guy answers you back or you're having some kind of conversation, I don't think it's a mass e-mail. Plus, because I have ancestry from Sumava, I know some of these people, so I think in that sense to say that it was a mass overload of e-mails by some radical group or by some groups that work in this direction, so I don't think that's quite true. I would like to speak to the law as such later, but I would like to turn to this, because I do not think that this time would be what the wallpaper has already been mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u29	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Mr Okamura, Mr Kučera after Mr Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to relieve Mr Votava's feeling, because you have told us here that you are not lobbying for developers. Then you lobbied for them. Ambassador, accept the feeling that you lobby for developers, admit it, and don't tell us that you're defending them here first, and then you're telling us that you're not actually lobbying for them. So it's either yes or no, and I get it from your performance. Yes, you lobby for developers. And I repeat again our proposal from the beginning to reject this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u31	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Mr Kučera, Mr Jakubčík, followed by Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u32	Thank you for the floor. I must respond here to the words of Mrs Němcová. Through Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Němcová that the difference between municipalities in the national park and outside the park really is. And you asked what the added value was. Those municipalities in the national park have added value precisely because they are in the national park. Unlike the municipalities of others. And just a little factual comment about it. Do you know where the most expensive land in the Czech Republic is? They are in Prague and Šumava National Park.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u33	I thank Mr Kučer. Mr Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond to Mr Kučera and Mr Laudát. And I'll use their rhetoric. One of the treasures of the Czech country is Vltava. The Vltava River. Beautiful. Beautiful. It's a beautiful natural phenomenon. Why are you building flood control measures in the Ústí Region? Why are flood barriers made in Prague? It's nature! Leave nature to nature. Why is it all done? To protect a man and his buildings. Then why are you using this rhetoric in the case of Sumava? Why don't you let people live on Sumava? Why don't you let those people in Sumava work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u35	I thank Mr Jakubčík. In addition to the factual remark made by Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I must very strongly oppose what Mr Okamura said, that I lobby here for some developers! I, my colleague, through the President, have made it clear that sometimes it seems to me that these developers are terrified when there are no arguments. And that's what it takes in the case of Brd. Nothing more, nothing less! If I am lobbying for something, my colleague through the President, I am lobbying for the position of the Pilsen Region, where I am a representative. I am lobbying for the opinion and opinion of the municipalities of the Pilsen Region, the Šumava municipalities. So please don't push me anything else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u37	I thank Mr Votav. With the factual remark of Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u38	It's a difficult subject, and whenever it's been discussed here, it always wakes up a big wave of passion. I have the impression that this debate is still being conducted in a crazy way, in the sense that somebody says that the park is supposed to be viewed a little bit civilly as a space for life, i.e. to allow the community to develop there, that it also marks us as people who either have some heavy businessmen behind us, and have bought land there, and God knows what they want to do there, and on the other hand, the angels who are concerned with pure nature. It's just me rejecting these black-and-white views of such a complex problem. I mean, I asked my colleague over there, too. Which one of you has ever been to Grossglockner? How did you go there, folks? Did you walk there, or did you drive all the way up to the top of the car? Have you walked the trails marked for tourists? Or do you want Austria to say in a moment: If the Čech are so sensitive to Sumava, then we must be equally sensitive to our national parks and put there: Czechs, do not come here. Because if you can't have a man in the woods, why would he be in a car on Grossglockner? Seems like a crazy way to debate. I reject the fact that we are those who do not respect nature, not only because we claim that there is room for man in nature and there is a place for communities that have the right to develop in some reasonable way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u39	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. Now I confess I don't understand. Mr Holík may go on a proper application, but he also wants a factual comment. Mr. Ambassador, what's closer to you? A real comment and a proper performance after that. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u40	Mr President, dear sluggish government, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I will answer my colleague's remark... [[There's only one minister sitting in a government bench.]] [[A moment of silence, the speaker can't remember her name, laughter echoes from different sides, the President says: German.]] Sure, the Němcová, so there's no confusion. Grossglockner is Austria's highest mountain and I can't get to the car. I can only go through Grossglocknerstrasse, there's an asphalt road. So we don't confuse concepts. Now, if you don't mind... Mr President, will you allow me to continue my speech?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u41	Definitely, definitely, now the de facto point has ended, starting with a proper performance. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u42	Thank you again. After a number of dry numbers, mutual assaults, I promise my performance will be a little restful. However, let me quote or use the editorial from the Lidové noviny of 23. 5. How to assess the soil in Sumava? A cable car on the top of the border and a giant sports area with a school for 800 million. These are two projects to be created on the territory of the National Park of Šumava. There's one other thing that connects them besides their size. Both of them enthusiastically advocate the mayors of the municipalities whose family members bought the land at the site of future buildings. Of course, in order to assess the land, the law needs to be amended. And that's why we're sitting here to assess a new law that promotes several senators connected to the nearby mayors and other landowners who are in the background. Expand the building zone, open Šumava to development projects and logging. The law is justified by the fact that we must fight the crust, we must improve the economy in the region, and we must reinhabit Šumava. If I take this, I'll bring it to you by ad absurdum: in addition to moving in healthy air, to which, of course, golf courses, cable cars, slopes, rope centers, monkey tracks in treetops will serve, but also a modified fireplace with barbecue with a view of the built-up surrounding villages. Is that what you want? [[The voice from the diaper: No.]] Yes, this also has a second side. The forest can live without human intervention. The population of the Czech Republic does not grow, so it does not need new buildings and new destruction of agricultural and forestry land. It is important to realize how man's actions have turned out to be on our nature. What we've had, we've earned, and now we're buying it from the outside dearly. For this reason, I will also ask the petitioner here through Mr President: If everything is so crystal clear, please tell me why the land is already purchased? Ladies and gentlemen, let us note that the forests are a drinking water battery. And drinking water is one of the world's problems. We live on the roof of Europe. There's no water coming to us. We have to make do with what's raining on us. And we all know that these resources are very vulnerable. We can't contain the water by cutting out and cementing the surfaces. It is also said that the Amazon forest is the lungs of our country. I would move it a little bit - and Šumava National Park are the lungs of the Czech Republic. We know that the Amazon forest is literally murdered by those wood miners. I wouldn't want anything like this to happen here in Sumava. Colleagues, it's up to us. We're gonna let Šumava take advantage of the intervention here, and then we're gonna buy the air in the future, just like the writer Beljajev once described in the Air Seller that we're gonna buy it in aerosols? Ladies and gentlemen, let me take a little turn. We're gonna take a little trip. Settle down comfortably, close your eyes, and we'll dive into history. About 13 billion years ago, the universe was created. Five billion years ago, Earth was created. About a million years ago, there was an already upright man - a homo erectus. Ten thousand years ago, this man of homo sapiens, or thinking, began to build his dwellings. And a hundred years ago, the mass development of our country began, and agricultural and forest land was being destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware of the acceleration of this development? Can you tell me what's gonna happen in 50 years? From this walk it follows that the present face of our country has been governed by nature for millions of years. And I don't think she's driving it wrong. Now a man who thinks he is the master of creation has taken control. Ladies and gentlemen, but we're sitting here today dealing with the future of our children and our grandsons. You can look them in the eye and say, "You know, my dear grandson, we're handing you the artwork, we're giving you highways, dams, we're giving you production buildings, we're giving you logistics centers, hypermarkets, communications satellite system." You know, we kind of forgot to have drinking water in here so you could have air and a place to live. Colleagues, is that what you want? We present here the elite of the Czech Republic, an elite that has received trust from our voters, and the fate of Sumava is in our hands. So, on behalf of the Úsvit movement, I propose to wait for the 114 amendment, as suggested by the Minister, and I propose to reject the Senate proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u43	Thank you, Mr Holík, for his motion to dismiss. I now have two factual points, first Mr Jan Zahradník, followed by Mr Igor Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u44	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have signed up for a technical remark, although I am next in the order of a regular performance. But I couldn't respond to almost everything in my colleague Holík's speech, but since I have only two minutes, I only have to say two reactions. Mr President, tell Mr Holík that he is wrong when he says that the law is from a workshop of three or several senators. 50 out of 54 senators present voted for him. They supported the law. These are respectable people, elected in direct choice by the majority system, and they have full responsibility for their actions. First of all. [[17.20 hours]] And two. Of all the possible errors, Mr President, which Mr Holík has made, one of which is particularly in my memory. And that was when you were scaring off the lack of water. You believe - Mr President, tell him - that the law will bring in the concrete mixer and that it will concrete the Sumava, that it will make such a pool. That's not true. But what threatens our water management system is that Sumava is drying out. That if we let environmentalists turn 50 percent of the territory into first zones, that Sumava will dry up. It's gonna be a dry forest. Such dry forest holds no water. Please, Mr Vice-President, tell Mr Holík. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u45	Yes, I promise, I will. [[There's laughter.]] I thank Mr Zahradník. Mr Jakubčík, Mr Holík, followed by Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to address Mr Holík through you. You're saying not to exploit the Sumava. It's clear here that you've probably never been to Sumava. Tell me, what is there to profit from this Sumava? On those fallen rotten tribes, those gray, dried-up tribes standing up? What's there to profit from? Have you been to the Sumava? Did you go through the Šumava? Yes, it can be mined - the beautiful green Sumava, which is unfortunately beyond the Czech border, which is on the Bavarian side. And while I still have a minute 20 here, there's one more thing I want to say. I'll follow up on Mr. Vice-President Filip and Mr. Minister. The minister here told us that Šumava will be visiting 2 million people. Vice-President Filip said that the loss of the national park can be counted in tens or hundreds of millions. The Bavarian Ruda National Park will visit 760,000 people. The profit of this national park is EUR 28 million. Do you think our German neighbors are looting the Bavarian side, trying to decapitate it, trying to wipe it out? Were you on the Bavarian side? Did anybody see what it looks like in there? Beautiful green nature, people living in harmony with nature, entrepreneurs living in accordance with nature. On the contrary, the number of inhabitants on the Bavarian side is increasing, new or not industrial enterprises are opening there, but mainly tourist businesses, new guesthouses are opening there. And that I live there and that I go to Bavaria slowly every two weeks, I go shopping there by the way, so I see it -- people don't live there badly, and nature doesn't live there any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u47	I thank Mr Jakubčík. Another comment by Mr Holík, Mr Laudát, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u48	I will respond to the comments made by Mr Jakubčík and Mr Zahradník, through Mr President, of course. I've been to Sumava. Mr Jakubčík will answer me, which part succumbed to bark and which part resisted. Yes, it was the Boubín Forest, where there was no intervention. He survived.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u49	I thank Mr Holík. Another point of fact, Mr Laudát, after which I believe that Mr Okamura has applied. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u50	Thank you. To a fellow Zahradník. Just because someone is elected a senator doesn't mean he's an honorable man. Some of the last staff are very controversial, but the voters have chosen them, so they have them. Some voters, I'm fixing them. As far as the water regime is concerned. I don't know, but maybe every landscaper will tell you that if you take something holodeck or interfere in that territory, it's the worst thing you can do for the water regime. So the opposite is true. It's not true. As far as the Bavarian party is concerned, as far as I know, one of the German environmental ministers took the courage to say, "Leave the Bavarian side of Šumava alone." And even the bark, I don't know in which waves of the calamity, came just from Bavaria. So there it really is left in some zones of its destiny as we should behave in the national park. And don't worry about nature, she'll help herself. As far as my distrust of self-government is concerned. You know, you never see an individual. And I think that there are values that need to be protected so that the aspect of personal failure is excluded. Sumava and other national parks deserve it, like monuments. Today and daily, we experience personal failings of individuals in front of those bloated wallets or envelopes or money in our account. And then what are you gonna wear on these people? What are you gonna do about the fact that someone at Chenkov's sawmill was building on those meadows? Then everyone was surprised. Then everyone starts criticizing it. Who's the one who authorized it, who let them in, who didn't intervene? Where are these people, and what are you gonna wear on them today? The sheds just stand there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u51	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr Robin Böhnisch, Mr Martin Novotný, followed by Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u52	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just a few short reactions. The first one concerns the performance of a fellow Zahradník. There's no dry forest in Sumava. In Šumava there is a forest with a dry tree floor. However, vegetation, which thus develops at lower levels, is of course of extremely high value in terms of water retention. So that's no reason to be afraid. I would like to thank Jakubčík for describing the Bavarian park. That's absolutely accurate. And the motto of the Bavarian Forest National Park is to let nature be nature. This Senate bill certainly does not contribute to such wording. I'm probably the only forester here to be educated, so I can afford that sentence. And I say, rather than this proposal from the Senate, then rather - a golden bark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u53	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Martin Novotný, followed by Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u54	I promise I'll be brief. Good afternoon. I wanted to tell my colleague, Mr Laudát, through Mr President, that the coin should really have both sides. In addition to the fact that there may be people at the level of self-government who succumb to some temptations, so at the level for changing the protectors, such as conservation, etc., there are a lot of people who apply completely irrational principles that are not applied anywhere in Western Europe. This does not allow, for example, the life of a lot of conservation objects, the realization of things common in Western Europe in this area, and they use principles that are completely irrational. The coin always has two pages, and let's not just scare the developers and the corrupt members of the government. Life is so much richer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u55	I thank Mr Novotný. Mr Ivan Gabal, Mr Michal Kučera after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, very briefly. I recommend who has a chance to look over the Internet or actually go through it - California National Parks, where there are hundreds and hundreds of kilometers of bark through the destroyed forest. There's a huge amount of fish bones in there. And if you look at the economic and tourist numbers in this area, the rigidity of regulation, the fact that you can't really build anything, you can only drive there in selected places, live, camp, anything, discipline... So these are huge numbers in both money and people who want to see it in this form. I think that this is a crucial and crucial decision whether we want to have a national park with everything, including the fish bones, or whether we want to have a forest where we're going to farm and cut down. [[17.30 hours]] And allow me one more personal memory. When was Sumava the greenest? When I was in the army in 1977 and 1978 and we drove armored transporters and tanks and no one lived anywhere. Everyone was banished and the villages were occupied by people, where when you appeared and no one knew you, they turned you in and where people were shot. If Šumava has any value, it is because and as a result of the fact that we drove the Němec out after the war and occupied it and were able to shoot at our own people at the border. We used to leave a long zone where no one lived so no one could get through there. That was green Hačava. Okay, we inherited the value, we opened it. It is tourist-attractive, interesting, but either we want to have a national park to which we will not interfere, or we will have something to farm, cut wood and export it to Germany, as we have done for many years in black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u57	I thank Mr Gabal. With another factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u58	I'm smiling when I heard the bonmot, when Sumava was the greenest, that it was when the green soldiers rode there. But I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Novotný, through Mr President. That coin really has two sides, my colleague. Indeed, on the one hand, there are municipalities and municipalities, and I do not give them any evil intentions. They really make decisions based on their partial interests and perhaps quite rightly. On the other side of the coin may be you when I tell the militant conservationists who would forbid everything. That is why we must have a quality law on Sumava, a quality amendment to Act No. 114, to prevent this. Unfortunately, this quality law is not the Senate proposal on Sumava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have two factual points here. Just for the record, I'll ask. Mr. Mr. Kučera? He already was. Mr. Hájek? Come on. Another factual point is yours, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u60	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief. I applauded Mr. Laudát for the first time, and I've been here for a year. There's always a first time. From my point of view, I would be very careful when it comes to the trust of the representatives. I'll say it from experience. Representatives in Ostrava received 5% of OKD shares. Control package - these shares were sold to Bakal and Bakala built a house in Modrava for money. Reputants got the waterhouse shares. Where did these stocks end up? In France, near Veolie, if I'm not mistaken. I don't want to talk a priori that all the deputies are corrupt. Definitely not. There's a lot of honest and honest people out there. But if we don't build clear rules, clear boundaries, we don't leave a tiny loophole in the law, a tiny doorway, I'm afraid our people can take advantage of that. From my point of view, I will vote against the rejection of the Senate proposal because I think the door is there, maybe there is a gate, and I will agree with the Minister's proposal to make an amendment to Law 114 on Nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u61	Thank you. And now, Mr Jan Zahradník, duly signed up for the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I fought here last week to bring the Senate Bill on the Šumava National Park into our programme for some time, I was well aware of what it would mean. I knew what kind of discussion was going to take place here. Perhaps I am surprised at how some of us have succumbed to the campaign and propaganda of environmental activists that is coming to us through really physical citizens who are writing us their e-mails in good faith. However, their view is clearly an opinion of ecological activism. I think, no matter what happens today, it is necessary for me to discuss the law, and I think that we have a duty to deal with it, and that we have to deal with some clear decision, whether the senát as the law's promoter, as well as the citizens of Šumava, representatives of the Šumava Authority, people who really like Sumava and who may not be able to perform as clearly as we get in our emails every day. Let it finally be decided. I might first try to return to the very beginnings, not to the beginnings of the world or to the beginnings of the Sumava mountains, but to the beginnings of the origins of the Šumava National Park. I think the Šumava National Park is a product of the time in which it originated. Its territory has been inhabited by humans for centuries and has also been significantly shaped by humans. The removal of the original German population and 40 years of closure of the core part of Šumava behind the Iron Curtain during the communism period significantly affected access to this territory in the first years after the Velvet Revolution. At that time, the government, as well as the conservationists and ordinary lovers of this beautiful part of our republic, decided to protect it by declaring a national park throughout the area of Šumava. I know well from my friends, who were there at the time, who were those who were at the time deciding to set up a national park, that their goal was after a time, when perhaps more important problems of our republic, which were on the agenda of the day, were resolved to return to Sumava and finally decide on the extent and nature of the protection in the National Park of Šumava. I think the most important fact that brought Sumava to today's state is that this return never happened. The topic of Šumava and its protection was seized by environmental activists, their influence gradually grew stronger, as everything and everyone protecting and, at the same time, minority opinions grew stronger in our society. Soon, none of the politicians thought to go back to the development of the Šumava National Park and somehow change the level of its protection. Thus, the administration of the national park managed by the Ministry became a very strong institution, which itself sets out the way nature is protected, allows itself exceptions, decides itself in administrative proceedings on complaints of residents about its activities and also last but not least in Sumava it manages and spends huge state subsidies. These Sumavian farmers, supported, of course, by environmental activists, do not want to give up their influence. They have great support in this, and they have also in the past, in many environmental ministers. Here I would like to mention, in particular, Minister Martin Bursík, who, under the political cover of the then government coalition, could begin the transformation of Šumava into the wilderness. In Šumava, the experiment, which in my opinion has no parallel in Europe, was thus fully underway. But there are two questions. First of all, is this even an experiment? Isn't there a situation like this in the world that has been going on for a long time and in a territory that is of an appropriate size so that it can be applied to our problem, which lasts for a long time, where the territory originally inhabited by humans, for centuries, has been subjected to this change, this return to some sort of original situation? And I say no. There's no such territory anywhere in the world. So, in my opinion, it is proof that this is an experiment, that Šumava is therefore the laboratory that Mr. František Laudát spoke of. [[17.40 hours]] The question is, however, who is the experimenter, who is the experimenter in this laboratory, who is authorized to conduct the experiment and who is responsible for its success or failure. I have to say, I don't know an experimenter like that. The government of the Czech Republic, which is also the founder of the national park by law according to its own regulation, has never dealt with the situation in Šumava as a whole. She always left the national park administration to the relevant environmental minister. The Ministry itself and the environmental authorities even claim that no such experiment is going on. Finally, non-governmental environmental organisations have no responsibility. But not only do they have no responsibility. I remember well the dramatic moments that occurred after Kyrill's body in January 2007, when there were reports of tens of thousands of fullmeters of fallen wood, and when every responsible forest farmer began immediately with the destruction of semimes. At that time I met as the South Bohemian governor in January 2007, shortly after the Orcan, with Minister Bursík, and for the first time I heard his information that he was going to leave all fallen wood in the first and part of the second zones in the forest. At the time, I asked him to lower his fundamental environmental stance in this case, to make an exception, to allow half of the other and the first zones to clear out in this absolutely exceptional case, thereby giving Šumava a chance to survive. His rejection impressed me and confirmed that the opportunity to transform the vast part of Sumava into an effortless territory, which was sent down to him by blind providence in the form of the Kyrill Orcan and in its footsteps of the barking ground, would not be released from his hands. The Ministry of Environment and the then park administration suddenly did not have to have difficult negotiations with municipalities about the change of zoning, it did not have to have difficult negotiations and arguing about the care plan, the bark-eaten territory became without interference by nature. The Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, who was concerned about the fate of Šumava, convened a Senate hearing on 24 May 2007 about the calamity in Šumava, to which I was then present and where I had the opportunity and honour to speak. One of the speakers was then Minister of the Environment Martin Bursík. In addition to declaring barkworms a part of nature, which also deserves protection, he answered frequent questions from the participants of the hearing after who was responsible for the Šumava experiment. At that time he said that he himself assumed responsibility for the development in Sumava. That can be found in the record of the Senate hearing. Okay, but honestly, where is Minister Bursík today, and where is his responsibility? The predictions that a crusty calamity would be necessary as a result of the undoing of the half have been confirmed, and today we are witnessing their sad consequences. And one thing is quite dangerous. I overheard it from my fellow Member Michal Kučera. He said the barking calamity stopped by itself. Please don't do that, it's not true. The kůrovcový calamity was halted by active interventions against it, which were conducted at the time when Dr. Jan Stráskýý and his successor Mr. Ing were the director of the Šumava National Park Administration. Jiří Mánek. They stopped with their active barking process, that today we can say that for now, for today's moment, the barking calamity is okay, that it is already over in Sumava. However, I still have to ask myself questions and with me a number of people who have a similar thinking to mine: What will be in Sumava at that time before the new forest grows up? Will he grow up? And will it be the mixed forest that we all want, or will it be monoculture again? Will the vast area of decay of current crops not affect the conditions of its recovery, as environmentalists and cooperating scientists do not expect? Will this experiment not affect the long-term water conditions of Šumava, which will affect the development of new crops? How will a change in the forestation of the peak parts of Šumava manifest itself on the frequency of flooding in the foothills? And last but not least, how does this experiment translate into the lives of the people who live in Sumava, want to make a living there, do business there, or pursue their hobbies? These and other questions, this is no political game, are motivated by the common sense of the people whom Šumava is at heart. However, my fellow Members, I am convinced that this is a fundamental political problem, but it cannot be solved by elections because of its size over time. It is a fundamental conflict between two conflicting views of the world and the place of man in it. I ask further whether it was possible after Kyrill Orcan to proceed differently and to save Šumava from the crust. I think so. As I said before, the national park was set up by the government, and the government had a duty to take responsibility for Šumava and take care of it. At the time, the South Bohemia Region, we called on the government to decide what the public interest in the conservation of nature in Sumava was in the national park. At the time, we warned the government that there was a violation of the laws in force and even a violation of the regulation of the government by which the national park was established. We have repeatedly asked the Prime Ministers of the Government, as they took turns in their position, to make the Šumava problem a point of negotiation, so that ministers from other ministries can comment on it, so that the government will discuss it as a whole, politically. We know well that the Minister acts and votes politically at the government meeting, where his political affiliation is applied, his political opinion, and then the Minister must be an official at the Ministry, he must transfer the government's decision to his department. Here, however, the environmental ministers acted politically in their resort. They brought their political views into the meeting of the resort and thus influenced Šumava. And since we do not want this to continue, we do not want problems to be repeated, because as ministers change, approaches to Šumava are changing, so we want a law to stabilize the situation significantly. Sumava is a huge forest complex, and I think also a forest complex, which is very little populated compared to what it was before 1945, when there were almost twenty times as many people living there as it is today. It has also been the subject of such a conflict of interest in nature protection since the beginning of the 20th century. One opinion was that nature in Sumava should be protected for itself, for the same nature. Such a representative was Josef Váchal. And then there was an opinion held by people living in Sumava that, of course, nature needs to be protected, but not for it itself, but because it has been the home of these people for generations and, in a way, it has been feeding these people for generations. These people did not perceive nature as a shrine requiring protection of its nature or of any other kind, but because it is vital to enter into an interaction with this nature. However, it must be said that both approaches to nature conservation in Sumava had a common denominator at the time, which I would like to emphasise. It was then about the rescue and protection of the then-existing landscape landscape nature of the deep Bohemian forests, which apparently gave Šumava a name in the Czech language, about limiting excessive deforestation and preventing too dramatic changes in natural conditions, i.e. the treatment of the landscape so that these phenomena do not occur, so that nature literally does not change under our hands in an uncertain direction. [[17.50 hours]] I am convinced that at the time of the announcement of the National Park of Šumava this approach was dominated by this paradigm. It has to be said that even then, ideas appeared somewhat more modern. Protect not the landscape, but leave nature to spontaneous development. Kind of from the outside, like from the lab watching nature do its thing. According to this idea, nature itself will decide by its own forces what forest it should be, or should not be, and whether there should be any forest in Sumava at all. This idea was initially linked with the caution that this approach should apply only to certain parts of the territory, the rest gradually preparing for the ferociousness, the prafalization, the transformation of Šumava into the wilderness. But gradually, eagerness won. Why make these long-term interventions, why wait decades? The idea of taking the experiment now. As I said before, there was no one to be the experimenter to hold that responsibility. Dr. Böhnisch mentioned Bavarian National Park here. That's where the experiment is going, but it's done with a blessing, or let's say with knowledge and approval of the Bavarian government. Yes, they said, Prime Minister, Minister Stoiber, that's awful here, it looks awful here, but let's leave it at that. None of our environmental ministers ever said that from the park directors, let alone the prime ministers. Everyone, as they suspected, expected that many would be satisfied if that were the case, but no one gave it any sanctification. You can't stand what happened. The kůrovec's gone rogue. For example, in 2010, 500,000 spruce units dried under the breeze and another 350 thousand pieces were defeated in defense. If we want to fight the crust, if we want to protect it, we know it's not possible in the first zone. We must wait for the crust to end with its thirst. However, even in other zones and zones, we must wait for further protective conditions to be met. We must honor the protection of the species. The grouse of the deaf shall not be disturbed from 31 July. Some species can never handle surgery. The Natura system is applied throughout the area of Sumava. The biosphere reserve is the area that takes over Sumava. There's a penalty for something to stop immediately. Prohibition of continuation of the activity by the Czech Environment Inspection. In some territories, the crusty land must be peeled upright, which is seven times more expensive than when this procedure is carried out on cut wood. The land's gonna fall in a minute anyway, it's gonna mark the soft land anyway. I already told you that the barking calamity did not stop spontaneously, it was stopped by active politics, active activities of the then two directors of the national park administration. But there was also a significant compromise. It was enforced and prepared by the visitor's order. It's been worked on the zoning, on the care plan. Even the Park Administration and the Ministry, under the leadership of two ministers, Chalupa and Podivínský, took up the preparation of the draft law on the National Park of Šumava, which was already prepared at the end of 2013, to be handed over to the House, but there were circumstances that could not be foreseen, and we are now dealing with a law which I believe was very good and very timely and will be the activity of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The proposal that came here, I've already said, has the support of 50 senators out of 54 present. This is rarely what happens to us here that we in our House would vote in this way. This rarely happens even in lower-level gremias. These are the senators of a different political spectrum. The law has the support of municipal authorities. Of the 22 municipalities formed by the Association of Municipalities of the Šumava National Park, the Senate proposal supports 21 municipalities and significantly, and here Mr Votava read this in the Memorandum of the Pilsen Region, there are dozens of reasons why this proposal should be approved, why the chances of Šumava should be given to be protected according to regulations that are clear, clear and understandable. The proposal has significant support for both regions. Both regions, Plzeňský and Jihočeský, with their resolutions expressed their support for the Senate bill. So it's very supportive. We're calling for a compromise. Some of my previous speakers said we had to start acting again. Thinking again, looking for a way out of those exits, heading towards some compromise. But I am clearly saying - all this has already been done. The compromise has already been reached, its implementation has been at hand. The law could have already been discussed calmly and peacefully, but unfortunately the policy is that the process has set its foot, the process has stumbled, and now we are rising again. Compromise is here. It's this Senate proposal. It's not a dogma. I firmly believe that it is appropriate to discuss it, that we can even proceed to what the chairman of our club, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, mentioned here, did not rush to discuss this Senate bill into second reading. Give such a term that will be beneficial for us to even be able to deal with both proposals in one time. The proposal, which is presented here from the Senate, which has some support here, and the supporters have made a strong comment on this, and at the same time the proposal that the Minister is preparing. The proposal was discussed by the Committee on the Environment, which was familiar with it, with the draft amendment of Act 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape. At the time, we mentioned that the representatives of the government require that appropriate sub-legal standards, which will define the protection conditions precisely, be put forward for this law, which, in general, does not necessarily describe the conditions of protection. I hope the Ministry's done with all this. I believe that when the Minister intends to bring this law in the near future, these documents are already available. So let's try to discuss these proposals in some joint... I don't mean a joint document, but in one time. So we have two paths here. The first is the way to transform economic forests. There were farm forests here 24 years ago. And the fact that Sumava was green in the 1970s, at the end, as Mr Gabal mentioned, was, of course, because of the success of the Bohemian Mountains at that time. At that time every bark spruce had to be found and the forest manager was responsible for destroying it and not allowing the spread of bark spruce. We're in a different situation today. But please, let's try to go that way of gradually transforming. Let us not rush to declare over 50 per cent of the territory the regime of the first zone, thereby allowing, unfortunately, and we fear that the entire area of Šumava will be transformed into a wilderness. Fifty percent of the first zones mean a huge cruststorm in some very early days and the drying of the entire Sumava. What happens next, God knows. [[18.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have also been assigned here to share the views of the Civic Democratic Party Club. We support this proposal, we are in favour of it passing through the second reading, that is, on the proposals that have been put forward here from several places, i.e. on proposals to reject the law at first reading, we will make a negative statement. We are in favour of the law moving forward to second reading, and we are also in favour, if it is at second reading, of discussing not only the Committee on the Environment, so that we do not follow the unfortunate line of approach from the past, when only the Ministry was concerned with this, but also the committees that are close to other aspects of life in Sumava: the Committee on Economics, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and that these committees decide what form the law will take. Ladies and gentlemen, I am once again addressing you, honourable Members, with a request that we release the Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u63	Thank you. Only if I have correctly noted - are you suggesting, Mr Member, that further discussions be held on the Economic Committee and on the Public Administration Committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u64	Mr President, if the law had been released for second reading, or if it had not been approved for rejection, I would, of course, have applied with a proposal to which committees I would have proposed, or our club, to pass the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u65	Okay, thank you. I have three factual points here. The first is Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Michal Kučera, and the third is Mr Josef Hájek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u66	Thank you. To a fellow Zahradník. Only nature can decide in that lab. Then it's worth it. First of all. And secondly, if you're talking about falangists, now I'm not just talking about a fellow Zahradník. You know, what I've done here and read to you is a pure transposition of basic conservative values into the application of nature conservation. Nothing more, nothing less. That's a conservative approach. What you may be preaching is neoconservativeism, even in the worst form, maybe some liberalism, I don't know. I don't mean to insult you, I wouldn't dare. But I did a clean transposition here, and if so, please, they were always conservatives who, until the Reagan era in the United States, were leaders in nature conservation. The same thing, Thatcherová, was the first, to your surprise, who came up with waste laws and nature conservation laws. So please, let's cut the falangist bullshit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u67	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u68	Thank you for the floor. I was kind of expecting Mr. zahradník to pick me up from the chair. It's done. I know his opinions pretty well, and I respect them. We are together in the Committee on the Environment and there are the views of Mr Zahradník - from there they are also known to me. However, I would like to mention the following to his address of fighting the crust, the active fight with the bark. In 2011, do you know how the crust in Sumava was destroyed? Using pesticides. And that exception to the use of chemistry in the fight against the crust has been issued by the Department of State Administration of Sumava National Park and published in 2011, I suspect in June, after the foresters used pesticides or pesticide-based products and used them since April. This is in a particular practical example of the fight against barkworm, which took place in the National Park of Šumava. The national park was then run by you mentioned directors Mr. Mánek and Mr. Stráský. Of course, I do not want to make a cruel assessment of the past period, but again I call for the approval of a quality law on the National Park of Šumava. Unfortunately, it's not the Senate law. And since I also want to save Sumava, then, Mr Zahradník, through Mr President, I also attach the 'Save the Sumava'. [[Mr. Kučera has pinned the "Save the Sumava" badge.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u69	Thank you. Next, with a factual remark, is Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u70	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank my colleagues for listening to me very carefully, which is why I want to correct my statement, because in mathematics it is true that twice minus is a plus, but here in Czech it does not apply that way. This means that my correct statement is that I will vote in favour of rejecting the Senate proposal and, of course, I will support the amendment to the Nature and Landscape Act, first of all. Secondly, the words about time here are very relative. I was also looking at Sumava this year, I was on Dusty Lake, and there I was looking at a nice board that described the situation in Sumava and talked about the fact that six thousand years ago, which is a relatively short time, was the average temperature in Sumava minus one whole two degrees. That means discussing whether trees will grow there or onde, in 500 years, could be anywhere else. That means that nature really does, if you don't step into it, it'll do the order itself. And the last sentence. I'm from Ostrava here with my colleague Jana Lorencová, who works intensively on oil lagoons, I've experienced many lagoons of coal. We don't have barkworms in Ostrava because he wouldn't survive there. So I envy the areas where they fight this problem. We would have given anything in Ostrava to have such a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u71	Thank you for your point of view. Next, with a point of fact, is Mr Zahradník and then President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I'm only going to perform with a reaction, of course. I'm a vocational teacher, so I'm kind of used to being educated all my life. As you well know, so teachers can teach their students, so they're constantly being taught. So the lesson that Mr. Laudát here gives from Conservativeism doesn't bother me at all. It's not like I'm taking his suggestions to heart, it's all different. I think if Mr. Laudát here wants to say that the original situation is the one thousands of years before people entered Sumava, then it needs to be said that the thousand years of human history will be wiped out, as if these people weren't living here. The fact that my speech, which I've been preparing for a long time, how you've probably come to know here from reading it mostly from the paper, he called it bullshit, that doesn't bother me much either. What made me a little uncomfortable with my colleague Kučera was that he spoke a little disrespectfully of a colleague of Dr. Jan Stráský, whom I greatly appreciate as a politician or as the first director of the Regional Authority of the South Bohemia Region. And I also appreciate his courage, with which he took up the position of director of the Šumava National Park Administration at a time when it was not easy, when they blamed here, the decision of Minister Bursík with support and franketic applause of environmental activists Šumava was wasting away, and with his actions he actually started saving Šumava. That's what I think he did. He deserves a lot of credit for that. And I'm sorry that my colleague Kučera doesn't properly respect him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u73	Thank you. Two factual points: Mr Kalousek has the first, followed by Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u74	Thank you for the floor, and I promise to be as respectable as possible, as I also want to reflect Mr Zahradník's speech. He said there are two ways. As much as I'm not a friend of the third ways, I dare say there are no two, but only three ways. The third I would like to name - to return to the Schwarzenberg what was unconstitutionally stolen in 1947. There is no doubt that they managed there responsibly and gently, just as they did 250 years before. I'm not suggesting that I not be charged with a conflict of interest. But if we're talking about how many paths there are, this is theoretically one of the paths, and there's no doubt that it's the most conservative way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u75	Thank you. Now, with Mr Kučera's point of fact, and if no one makes any further comments, the Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman, will take the floor. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u76	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I still have to respond to Mr. Zahradník's words. There's no way I spoke disrespectfully of the directors you mentioned. I was just documenting what they've done in their time to run the national park, which means they've been using pesticides to destroy the crust. I don't see anything disrespectful about that. It was their decision. Whether she was qualified or unqualified, I didn't evaluate that either. If anyone is disrespectful, Mr Zahradník, through Mr President, you are expressing yourself on conservationists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u77	Thank you. Since there is no other - there is another factual point. Mr. Zahradník has just volunteered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u78	Mr President, to be clear, in 2011 it was 300 litres of pesticides used annually, in 2012 it was 200 litres of pesticides. Then Mánek banned them completely and for Minister Bursík and Director krejčí there were thousands of liters of pesticides that were used in the Šumava National Park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u79	Thank you. Now with priority rights Mr. Minister of Culture Daniel Herman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u80	Mr President, colleagues, I do not want to talk about the cultural landscape here in particular, but as a native South Bohemia, which basically grew up in Sumava, I would like to allow myself to share my experience with you, because I really like Sumava and I can afford to say that I know her well enough. Many of the places, the local names that fall here really tell me something, let it be Radvanovický ridge, Tristolicenik, České Žleby, Stožec. I have specific fantasies there. I think that we really should go back to the own thing that we are talking about here, that it should not be that right-wing, left-wing optics, that it should not be determined by who is the author of this or that proposal, but that we really should be concerned. As I understand it, I think the question at the heart of the problem and at the heart of the discussion is whether the national park is in the territory of the municipalities or the municipalities are in the territory of the national park. So Sumava is a cultural landscape. I will only take one year - the year 1010 is the oldest written mention when it was mentioned in the annals of the Golden Trail trade between the towns of Prachatice and Pasov. And of course this landscape has been inhabited for centuries. Šumava has the specifics that it extends to the territory of three countries. In addition to the Czech Republic, it is also Germany, namely the Land of Bavaria, and it is also Upper Austria. When we look at Sumava in all these three countries and regions, we see that this approach is different. According to my knowledge, the most ecological, the most green, I would say in the workplace, the approach is in Bavaria, where we see that the forests at first sight are not in the best condition. But be careful - when we go in there, we see a new floor is already growing. That means nature's revitalization capacity is enormous. The forest is being restored. From dead trees, new trees draw nutrients. On the other hand, there is the question of whether the period when the big forest is dead, if the period isn't too long so that the water doesn't flood the nutrients and the new floor could grow. When we look in Austria, there is no protected area at all. That's where they farm the woods. The forest is in its best condition and Schlegel Abbey in Upper Austria certainly cannot be suspected of any non-ecological approach. And the Czech Sumava is something in between. I am convinced that it really needs to be viewed by the optics of substance and by the professional approach. And as I know from those proposals that I have had the opportunity to read, and as I also know from the conversations with the Minister of the Environment, and in my opinion, these things are complementary. Let's look at it, let's have the courage to really look at it in a matter of fact, without some ideological cover and some guys, because it's a unique territory in the heart of Europe that deserves protection. But, of course, people also have the right to live in this area. Just an iron curtain can't replace the curtain with green. Since I was two years old, that means almost 50 years old, I've been looking out the window of our cottage at the cottage at the cottage, and I can tell you from my own experience that those threes won't even drive out the campfires in the gardens of the local cottage, even the monstrous meliorace in the 1980s that took place there didn't drive them out. Blowing raging deer are so tame that - I saw it myself in the photos - they can come all the way to the cottage, and therefore even take an apple or a sponge out of the window from the mouth of a local resident. So don't worry about these animals being unable to live in any way with the human activity. But he mustn't be above peace. It is certainly necessary to respect certain territories that inhabit a feature that needs large territories that inhabit the grouse's deaf ears, the owl's big and other birds and animals. Of course, I don't think it's against each other. When we look at the southern slopes of Šumava in Upper Austria, where Schlegel Premonstratan Abbey operates slopes that are widely used, it certainly is not at the expense of destroying nature. It is very sensitive similarly - here I will follow up on the history, I think, of the very responsible management of the Schwarzenberg family, when it began to build the Schwarzenberg navigation channel, which we recently declared a national cultural monument quite rightly. Do not worry about human intervention, which will, of course, be sensitive, respect for nature, but, on the other hand, it will also allow cultural life in this extraordinary landscape to be possible for people to work there so that culture can develop there, as is needed in the 21st century. So let's really put aside some ideological flaps, let's look at it factually, and get the best of the proposals that are coming, the best thing for Šumava's development is the 21st century's doorstep, because it's us who's responsible for it right now. And it's such a beautiful area that it's really worth protecting and sensitively treating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u81	Thank you. We will now proceed to those who are duly enrolled in the debate. The first is Mrs Jana Hnyková and then Mrs Alena Nohavová and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the Senate bill on the Šumava National Park has finally come on the agenda and I would like to express my position on it. I start with a quote from Johann Wolfgang Goethe, who said: "Only nature knows what it wants, never jokes and never makes mistakes. Only a man does those." Why do I start with this quote? I believe that a group of senators respectfully submit this law to you and make a mistake. I don't care what happens in Sumava National Park. [[18.20 hours]] I consider Sumava to be a Czech natural heritage with its bogs, spruce and beech forests, mountain meadows, as well as glacial lakes. It is a place where rare plants and animals are found, even with endemic insects on peatlands, one that is not found anywhere else on earth. Isn't it amazing to have something like this in the Czech Republic? It also included Šumava from 1990 into the UNESCO biosphere reserve was probably not for nothing. Sumava, as we have heard here today, is visiting around two million tourists every year. Protecting natural ecosystems is of great importance not only for our generation, but also for future generations, of course, so that we can admire, get to know, but also rest in it. National parks in Europe are beneficial for the country and I have visited many of them. All you have to do is look at Germany, where ten million people spend more than 430 miles in national parks. They also give jobs to people who live there. We can name other national parks, but we're here about Sumava National Park. As well as to me, your esteemed colleagues and colleagues, have walked hundreds of e-mails from people from all over the Czech Republic who expressed their position on this issue, but I think that each of you has a healthy common sense and that you have taken your stand on this. Of course, among these many letters we also received written information from various organizations such as Duha, the civic association Friends of Šumava, but also from the regional councils of the South Bohemia and the Pilsen Region. What reached me most and my position strengthened even more was the expression of the department of biodiversity research, where our leading scientist from this area, Mr.Pavel Kindlmann, described with other colleagues from other professional workplaces what will become the adoption of this law and what impact it will have on the beautiful nature of Šumava. I will not discuss everything in detail here, but I would like to quote the conclusion of this evaluation: "At the firm conviction of both my and thousands of other scientists in the Czech Republic and abroad, the Senate bill on the National Park of Šumava would cause intimidating and irreversible damage to biodiversity in the Central European unique ecosystem of Šumava. It is therefore completely unfit for further deliberation in the legislative process." And these are the words of an expert that we should respect and take into account. I like nature as it is, and the more natural it is, the better it is for getting to know it, but, as I said, also for admiring the natural and beautiful thing it offers us. I believe that it is also felt not only by me, but also by thousands of other people who seek it, visit it, relax and find other forces in it so that they can return to their jobs and do their jobs responsibly. Therefore, I cannot agree with the proposed Senate Act on the National Park of Šumava. I want to preserve the nature of Sumava as it is so far, and therefore I support the rejection of the law at first reading. I can already see why this proposal was withdrawn from the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It was before the election. I get it. I just want to say, at the end of the day, such an experience. I come from the Jizera Mountains. A bark tree fell on the Jizera Mountains. Thirty years ago, I was very worried about how those mountains were gonna end up, if they weren't just rocks and nature was gonna be bad there. And when I asked the old woods why it happened, they admitted that it was because in the '50s they were miserable, that they cut down the woods and planted only conifers. Dear colleagues, I hope that common sense will prevail and that you will support the motion of the Dawn movement and reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u83	Thank you, too, Madame. I note here one point of fact, with which Vice-President Filip came forward. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u84	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I don't want to bother you. I only talk to some experts who, of course, talk about how life is and how it is managed in the National Park of Šumava. Mr Kindlmann worked on a scientific research project The consequences of insect invasions on insect-plant interactions mediated by volatile organic substances. Between 2011 and 2013, total of the state budget for South Bohemia's Biological Centre was paid 4 million. 479 thousand. Kč. You know, it's more the case with some experts - and now please don't take this personally, I support all the resources for science and research, but when we have allowed ourselves to spend there for other projects, such as biodiversity centers, strengthening basic research, another 78 miles. 975 thousand, so sometimes I imagine what we've given it for. Again, the point is not that I wouldn't want money for the South Bohemian Biological Center, it's a little bit of my heart thing, I very much support it, but some of the sentences you're saying here are more of a sign that you don't know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u85	Thank you for your point of view. We will now go back to the debate. Mrs Alena Nohavová, Mrs Zuzka Bebarová, is registered here as the first Mrs Alena Nohavová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u86	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we are on the agenda of the Šumava National Park Act submitted by the Senate. It sounded here, and there are probably many reasons for and against it. I'm sure each of you has heard most of the arguments over the last decade since the Kyrill and Emma Orcan, which have started the problems around the national park, and have taken their own picture. Unfortunately, from both sides of the barricade there is a shower of half-truth, misinterpretation and explicit lies, that I cannot remain indifferent to this and that I, as a Member of the South Bohemia Region, have no choice but to engage in the debate. The Šumava National Park Act, as it was processed, is certainly not the most ideal of ideal solutions. I too can imagine a number of provisions differently and better. However, out of all the wrong solutions, the proposed proposal appears to be the only real option for Šumava in the situation. Yes, the expansion of the first zones from 13 percent to 26 percent and with a further future expansion of up to 34 percent seems too much to me, however, in a state where the real 13 percent of the first zones now exist in more than 70, often very small, locations scattered throughout the park territory, which are also surrounded by large lanes of other zones where -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u87	I apologise, Madame, for entering into your speech, but I would like to ask my fellow Members, in turn, to share something with them, not to disturb your speech. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u88	- because of Mr Bursík's sabotage and others, we have effectively destroyed another 14 percent of the national park with bark. Unfortunately, it is not only pointless, but it is impossible to unite them into larger units, which could be meaningfully surrounded by other and third zones so that their size does not increase. Complete e.g. Mr President's request that the area of the first zones remain the same would only be possible if some of the existing first zones were completely abolished and transferred to the second or third zones. And that is probably not the goal, nor is it politically and professionally acceptable and through-the-way. But even the opposite extreme, when the above-mentioned enlargement of the first zones is not enough for wannabe green ecologists, and they are trying to build a wilderness in the heart of Europe, which would include more than 50 percent of the national park, is simply not a real way out. This basically eliminates the conditions for the permanent life of people in the park territory. Lies about trying to build Sumava, lies about the Šumava forests are just an accompanying phenomenon of the activities of those who tried to plunder under the cover of the ecology of Šumava and want to continue to do so. It is not possible to be right with the current minister and government that there is no need for the National Park Act of Šumava itself, that the matter will be resolved by the amendment to the Nature Conservation Act and subsequent care plans in individual national parks. We have seen in practice in recent years what ministers or directors of national parks have allowed with such built standards. Only the law and its consistent observance can prevent these efforts. Only by law, which will not allow special-purpose changes, will prevent future bursíkovic atrocities from occurring in nature. Šumava needs the National Park Act, I will support it, and the position of the South Bohemia Region and the Pilsen Region is positive about this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u89	Thank you, Madame. The next party to the debate is Mrs Zuzka Bebarová, after which Mr Vilímec will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Every time the petition received by this House's petition is linked to the discussion of one of the bills, I will inform the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to do so at the present time, while at the same time bringing to the right some information submitted here by my colleague Mr Laudát. The Committee on Petitions received a petition called The Good Law on the National Park of Šumava. It is a petition in which we are asked to adopt such a law on the National Park of Sumava, in which the main objective of the national park will be nature conservation, other activities will only be possible to the extent that it does not endanger rare nature, which will preserve the current area of nature left to 30 per cent of the national park, and will determine its gradual expansion to at least 50 per cent by 2030, as set out in the current national park care plan of 2000 and as usual in other European national parks, and which will limit further construction so as not to destroy the Šumava landscape. The Committee on Petitions is composed of profesor doktor Pavel Kindlmann, who has already been mentioned here, Petr Vacek, an actor, and doktor Jaromír Bláha of the Rainbow Movement, and contains not more than 40,000 signatures, but 21 005 signatures on the first petition document and another 887 signatures on the later submission of the petition papers, a total of 21 892 signatures. I do not take into account Internet support, which exceeds 5 000 signatures, because, as is most certainly known to Members of the petition committee and this House, the petition law only knows the signatures documented on a specific document. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Petitions held a hearing, a public hearing in which the representatives of the petents and other invited experts heard it, and adopted a resolution at its subsequent meeting in which, not as Mr Laudát said, he would identify with the position of the petents, but adopted a resolution by which he took note of the petition and stated that the protection of the natural and landscape values of the territory of Šumava is a matter of the whole country, not local. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u91	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mr Vilímec, and after that will be prepared by Mr Marek Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u92	Dear Vice-President, Colleagues and Colleagues, the topic of the National Park Sumava, respectively. The Šumava National Park Act is constantly returning to this House. It returns to us because we have not been able to resolve these problems in the past if not completely, at least partly by law. Mr Filip and others spoke about the fact that several legislative proposals have already been tabled in the past. Mr Filip mentioned more or less only those proposals where he himself had been signed, but there have been several such proposals in the previous two parliamentary periods of the Chamber of Deputies. These were two proposals from the Pilsen Region, not just one but two proposals from the Pilsen Region, and even a government bill was submitted in the last parliamentary term. What were the fates of these proposals? Either they were not discussed and were subsequently withdrawn as in the case of the first proposal from the Pilsen Region workshop after the start of the new regional leadership, or they went through the first reading, which was the case of the second draft of the Pilsen Region law and the government bill. I would like to stress as an elderly representative of the Pilsen Region that the two proposals made in the past by the Pilsen Region were, if I remember correctly, supported by all the representative clubs, even by all the voices present at the council meeting. Similarly, this proposal, which we are discussing here, has been supported through the Declaration. This also indicates that there is a great will in the places where the National Park of Sumava is actually located, not only in the Šumava municipalities, but in the Pilsen Region, as well as in the South Bohemia Region, to regulate the laws in the form of: the method of managing the national park, the territorial definition of the national park, the division into individual zones according to the nature protection type and other important areas, both from the point of view of nature care and conservation, as well as from the point of view of municipalities and residents living on the territory of the national park. [[There's noise in the room, there's noise.]] I have always been a great opponent in the past to make the national park a dead territory where various experimental methods of nature conservation are applied. What is truly valuable from the point of view of natural values must enjoy protection. I think we all agree on that. But we also need to realize that people, people in the Šumava National Park have been living in the Šumava National Park since time immemorial, people in the Šumava villages, and they too have to find living conditions here. In the past, the question of the legal definition of the Šumava National Park became the subject of an irreconcilable struggle between environmental activists, on the one hand, and on the other, the population living in the Šumava communities. The result, as we know, is not favourable and therefore an appropriate law must finally be adopted. When I read the Government's position on this Senate proposal -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u93	I am sorry, Mr Member, but once again I must remind my colleagues that we are still discussing one of the points that we have on the agenda, and if you have something substantial to resolve, go to the front room to hear what the speakers say. I'm gonna ask you to respect that. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In my opinion, which I read, the government points to the speciality of such a law, the problem of the specialty of the Šumava National Park Act, when we have more national parks. Yes, that's a well-known and old argument. It is not an argument that the government would make for the first time. Unfortunately, this argument has never helped from the problems surrounding the National Park of Šumava in the past. I don't think it'll be any different next time. I do not want to discuss, my fellow Members and colleagues, because of the details of the Senate bill. He can certainly change in some passages, and I think the translators are well aware of that. I am also convinced, in the context of what Mr Zahradník and Mr Stanjura have said here, that this proposal is to be passed until second reading. That it should go through the relevant committees, which will certainly be able to assess many details of this proposal, even if the time limit for discussion is extended for another 20 days. By withdrawing the draft law on the National Park of Šumava, as well as this Senate proposal, we have in fact in the past always harmed both residents living there and visitors, but also the national park itself. Let us be aware of this, and let us not try to repeat these mistakes that we have made in the past, even in this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u95	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mr Marek Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u96	Good evening again, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Sumava is causing a lot of commotion not only here, but also with citizens, because e-mails that go, so he walks all the time, he walks at the moment. In what the law is supposed to look like, the ideas of different groups that have long been interested in Šumava are clashing. And I think that the big problem with the law is that it is usually prepared behind closed doors and the public, especially the professional ones, whether they are local communities, whether they are nature conservation organisations, it only gets to the proposal after it is ready. The broad debate on the law then takes place primarily here in the Chamber of Deputies, and the problem is often that the proposals put forward are not the intersection of interests and compromises, but a unilaterally developed proposal. It would be good for this law to come here to the Chamber of Deputies to propose at least some agreement between those groups involved. If the proposal about the Šumava National Park was prepared by the government, as has already been said here, but that such a proposal should really be prepared. So it's not just words again. And that, of course, after a thorough debate. The variation over which there is agreement in professional circles has far better prospects that it will not be removed, that it will not be changed and that there will be at least some state of security and stability. That the scope and content of the concept of the National Park of Šumava will not be questioned from any side. Perhaps the fear, as has been said here several times about developers and people who are fighting for the Šumava National Park, stems precisely from the fact that in the past, if anything was allowed, it immediately ceased to have any rules and became just a fight for money, about land, about how to make the best use of it, which I think is wrong. These quality standards, which I was talking about a little while ago, at least from my point of view, the proposal 250, which we are discussing right now, does not have and does not respond, and therefore I personally will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u97	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Now the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies has volunteered, and I will give him the floor immediately. Then the rapporteur came forward. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. When you come to Sumava and look at the dried trees, you can ask yourself whether it was the unwillingness or inability of previous governments to resolve the situation. Anyway, anyone who comes in there will agree that what happened in Sumava was a crime in nature. A crime caused by the desire for experimentation, incompetence, willlessness, or someone lobbying to make it look as bad as it looks. The point is, if we reject this Senate proposal, if we don't give it a chance to discuss it, it means we will approve the devastation that is taking place in Sumava without being willing to take a concrete step towards improving the situation. This Senate proposal must be viewed in such a way that it is the natural response of people who are trying to address the situation in a situation where previous governments have completely resigned from this step. The law that we're going to let go means the chance to introduce the order that's so much needed there. Let us talk about these parameters in the next reading of this law, but I see the introduction of the Order as a fundamental prerequisite for improving the situation in the Šumava National Park. That is why I say that it is necessary to release this law for further reading so that the situation in the National Park of Šumava improves, as a result of the situation and the lives of the people concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u99	Thank you to Vice-President Jan Bartošek. With the factual remark of Mr Kučera, then the duly signed-up rapporteur in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u100	Thank you for the floor. Now I've been listening with my mouth open and unbelievably to what my previous speaker has said here. We've been talking for three hours, and more or less at expert level, whether the arguments are from the left, from the right, from the top or from the bottom, the arguments are quite technical, whether they are in favour or against. My previous speaker solved it. The previous governments are responsible for the dry Sumava. Excellent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u101	A colleague of Zemek's as rapporteur. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u102	Thank you. Not as rapporteur, but as duly signed up in the debate. I've listened carefully to a number of posts here. Unfortunately, I have to say that the debate has once again gone wrong, not in the debate about the bill put forward, but in the debate whether to cut down or not to cut down who did what wrong and so on. However, I will no longer believe this debate, and I would like, as I have already announced, to sign up for this proposal, because there have been proposals for rejection, so I would rather suggest that we return this proposal to the petitioners for revision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u103	Thank you, this is the procedural proposal that we will vote after the debate is over. Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u104	I prefer a clear word. The Member says to propose a revision and at the same time he said that he would support the amendment to Act No. 114. So what's to be overworked? I don't think we can do both at the same time. Whether we reject it today or return it to rework, that's legitimate, but what are the Senate colleagues going to rework? And why would they do that when many here who are in favour of this rejection also say that they don't really want any law on Sumava? That doesn't seem really fair to me. That seems easier to me when I'm in favour of rejection - I'm not. But that seems like the clear word of someone who makes decisions in this situation. But to give it back to the senators, to rework it, and at the same time to tell them, we don't need any law, so then there's one paragraph that's breaking the law. I understand that. But it doesn't have to be the Senate, it could be suggested by the Minister or someone else. So I don't think that's the way it is, the way it is, when you and many others are saying that there's a better law on Sumava. [[18.50 hours]] I respect that as a political opinion, I don't mind. But the overwork seems a little alibi. I don't know who's gonna rework it - and especially with what assignment? What are we gonna ask them to do if we give it back to them for processing? We should probably tell them not to do this in vain, what kind of proposal would at least have a chance of getting support to discuss this in the committees. I agree with Vice-President Bartošek, who says: we will send it to those committees, where we can debate. But you don't want to. At the same time, you're calling, the same people that we need to start discussing. And when we say, let's put it on the committees so that we can debate - no, not on the committee, but on the debate. Then I don't know where we're going to debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u105	Thank you. Two priority rights - Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek and then rapporteur. I now see this as a priority right for the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u106	Thank you. Since we also have a clear word, but of course we respect that the proposal has fallen and is voteable, we are only allowed to ask the rapporteur to adjust the procedure so that we first vote on the motion for rejection and if he does not pass, we will vote on the proposal for repayment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u107	Yes, it is a possible proposal under the Rules of Procedure, although the Rules of Procedure foresee the opposite procedure. But the rapporteur... I still have the ambition, if I can end the debate, to finish this by 19 o'clock, because no club has asked for an extension of the time period after 19 o'clock. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u108	First of all, I would like to take the liberty of proposing to my colleague Kalousek. Indeed, it is in the Rules of Procedure that the application for repayment takes precedence, so I would rather propose voting on the return, and then, if it does not pass, the rejection. And my colleague Stanjura's objection. You know, if you'd listened carefully to my news report, I was there to specifically say what bothers me as rapporteur, even with those that can be changed. That's one thing. I didn't say I wasn't up for the National Park Act of Sumava. Yes, but to make the law simply be in some concept with other parks, and not to create here spontaneously individual designs about different parks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u109	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. I also appeal to him for a short performance. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u110	I'm not gonna have a long show. However, correctly Mr. Senator for the petitioner sat patiently here for our whole long debate, wants to have a final word, so to allow it, I suggest on behalf of two clubs, on behalf of ODS and TOP 09, that we act today and take a territorial vote on the bill even after 19 o'clock. I think it suits you after that almost three-and-a-half... [[Questions from the diaper whether he wants to complete just this point.]] Well, here's the point. Yes, yes, yes. Just this point, so the subpoenaer could or would have a chance to say the final word, and he wasn't nervous that he only had three or four minutes left. So I'm presenting this procedural proposal on behalf of our two clubs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u111	Okay. We will have to decide that by voting. A procedural proposal without debate. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your identification cards for a procedural proposal to discuss today's Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava after 7:00 p.m. We're going to decide the number 100 vote I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 100, from 157 Members present, for 144, against 3. The motion was accepted. That's what we're voting for. We're good to go. I have no written application for a debate or factual comment. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Deputy plaintiffs? Senator? Are you interested in the final word? Yes. There you go. Mr. Senator Eybert. The final word of the plaintiffs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u112	Good day again. I would first respond briefly to a few questions raised by the rapporteur. I would like to emphasise once again that the zoning was discussed by the state administration, the Ministry of the Environment, as it is legally imposed, and that the zoning, as we would have taken it into the law, was simply submitted to the Chamber of Deputies with the last proposal that was here. I don't think the government would have submitted it if it hadn't been properly dealt with as the law requires. So the Ministry of the Environment did the zoning with the state administration and submitted it in the last draft law. I have nothing to say because we've taken over the whole thing. Defending the crustacean by the process that has been proposed here for years and promoted by some would-be environmental organisations, it has become somehow unconsumable in the public after the drying of 20,000 hectares. They've switched to another mantra. The Mantra that's been beating you all along: developers, developers, land sales, construction, two-thirds stop. It's total nonsense. Urban plans of municipalities apply. If anyone wants to change the zoning plan, they must get a favourable opinion from the National Park Administration and all other bodies. So it's just completely out of control. Entrance to the first zones. I told you what was going on in the park before Director Stráský and Director Mánek got there. In silence, they asked for the excavation of all the roads that exist in Sumava, on which tourists walk, on which the entire territory is served. It málem got away with it. They almost got the building permit to demolish those roads. No one would mind. Definitely not to a Tetřev. That's why we want the travel network to be in the law. Hunting. Another mantra they're banging into your head. In the territory of the National Park of Sumava, the right of hunting is exercised only by the state administration. And he's doing it because there's no different predators to different, I'll say, animals, and there would be huge damage if there was an overgrowth of the deer if there were an overgrowth of other animals. The Šumava National Park Administration must do a certain reduction there, because there are no natural enemies of some animals. Bird locations. I recommend one thing to those who go to Sumava. Go to the dry forest and listen in silence for a while if you hear a bird singing somewhere. You won't. Go down a mile to Kvilda, listen to yourself in that green forest. You'll hear. So the bird's location solved the bird for us because it's not gonna be there where the forest is dried up. That we would introduce inequality between municipalities - we introduced this a long time ago. We introduced it by the fact that in Šumava municipalities are intraviláns part of the park, while in other parks they are not part of the park. That is why we are trying to help them out a little by getting some land from the State's ownership and getting some compensation for the tax on real estate that has not been levied because there has been a shift in these territories. First the Němec banished the Čech, then the Čech banished the Němec, and then the comrades introduced the border zone after 1948, somewhere wide and 12, 15 kilometers long, and there the man ceased to live completely. If we want Šumava without people, let's just say it right now. Let's get them out of these villages and let's just leave it to nature. I'm sure somebody would like that. The continuity of the travel network. Why do we want the road network, too? There is the responsibility of the state for a lot of things. Fire, human injury, I don't know, et cetera. The road network must be maintained and managed by someone, and we therefore say in the bill that it would be appropriate for the administration of the Šumava National Park to take care of this network and keep its records. A reminder that fell here that Mr. Stráský and Mr. Mánek used pesticides. Yes, we did. But in a hundred times smaller quantities than Mr. krejčí used as the director before them. That's what Mr. Zahradník said. We have evidence for that, you can read it in the national park reports, how many pesticides were purchased and used in what year. Very simple. [[19.00 hours]] Seven thousand new buildings. Total nonsense about Sumava. When I talk to the mayor about the capacity of possible buildings, we count the order somewhere around 300 to 350 possible buildings in those pawned and built areas of the village, which do not have a full 5% of the park and are largely built today. If it was anyone's fault, it was the park administration at a certain time when it allowed some of the buildings it shouldn't have allowed, and the mayors were the ones who protested. I could comment on individual performances here, but you would have been here for a very long time and I would have bored you with it. But I'm just going to respond to the remark that President Filip had here. Yes, the administration can only be established by law. Until today, the Šumava National Park Administration as a state body is not established by law. We need to deal with this. The experiments were nine I remember. I've been in politics for a while now, and I remember about nine tries in 18 years. Achieving 50 percent of the first zones in the park. There are different options. One of them is that we reduce the area of the park - I don't know if that's what you want. Personally, I don't. I would like it to remain in the current dimension, but we should not be hasty in expanding the first zones that are not ready for the first zones. And I certainly don't see 50 percent as a target in any near horizon. It was here that Boubín remained a beautiful forest. Yes, he did, but only because he's not in Sumava National Park. [[There's laughter in the room.]] That it was interfered so that it could stay in the forest. He is outside the Šumava National Park and rules apply to him rather different than to the park. I still think that the bill that we brought here is a compromise. I'm not even saying it's ideal, it's the only option. However, I think it was very good of the Senate that it raised this issue and that it was trying to end up with the Šumava National Park Act. If you let him go into the next reading, or if you give him back to us to work, it has different sequences. If the Senate completes it, it won't be much changed. Believe it. If you let him go into the next reading, you have all the options to deal with things that you don't like in the Senate bill, and you can adjust it. I have already said here that I will try to get the standard adopted, because for me the biggest point is why we are putting this law here, so that some rules really apply. And I don't, and neither do my colleagues, in detail. We've made a kind of shot of some text that we're presenting for your consideration, your consideration. And if the Chamber of Deputies wants to work, they will take this law and form it in their committees. If he doesn't want to work, he'll either give it back to us or reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u113	I thank Senator Eybert's representatives. Just to be safe, because neither Bartošek nor I know if an apology has been read since 17 o'clock by Mr Martin Komárek, so I state this apology delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Now the rapporteur's final word - he is not interested. Just check on me, Mr rapporteur, because I haven't been running the law all along. There was a motion to dismiss at least three times and it was proposed that the law would return. A proposal for an extension of the deadline was also made in the debate. Since the deadline has not been set, the Act extends by 30 days without further notice. Then other things, such as the commandment, were proposed - apart from the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Public Administration, etc., but we will discuss this later. The first thing we should vote on is the change of order proposed by the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. According to the Act on Rules of Procedure § 63 in conjunction with § 90 para. 7 we would vote on a change of order. Before the vote, the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura shall be reported. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u114	Mr Vice-President, I said in my speech that I propose extending the deadline by 90 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u115	I see. I'm not marked here, so 90 days. But there is a need for discussion with the agreement of the appellant - I do not know if the appellant is empowered to do so by the Senate? [[Senator Eybert agrees.]] Okay. So we would have voted after we voted on the committees. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u116	I feel obliged to explain my unusual request to you. It's very important to us. [[The O.R.'s gone.]] I beg your understanding. We really don't like alibiism, we like a clear word. We are in favour of rejecting this law. If the proposal fails, we would rather support the proposal for a recast rather than discuss it. If we vote classically, first of all, we do not support this because we support rejection, and there will be a situation where the majority in this House does not want to deal with this law at second reading, but he will still go through it, because we will not support the proposal for revision because we want to reject it. Please, I say this fairly in advance, which leads us to this, so that it is clear and clear, so that we can vote backwards - first about rejection, and then about the proposal for revision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-010-064.u117	Mr Miroslav Kalousek justified his procedural proposal. I think we can vote on this without debate. I will not discuss this because, of course, the procedure is possible under the Rules of Procedure Act. We will decide to change the order in the voting order number 101 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of voting the rejection first and then returning it to the appellants. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 101, from 158 Members present for 119, against 6. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote in the opposite order. The first vote on the law as a whole after the debate, the final words will be the vote on the rejection of the proposal submitted by the Senate. We will decide in the vote number 102. Who is in favour of rejecting this proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 102, from 158 in favour of 93, against 42. The motion was denied. [[Applause especially from the left side of the hall.]] So we can't go on. Thank you to Senator Eybert's representatives, thank you to the rapporteur, Mr Zemek, and I conclude with paragraph 64. Given the decision made, I think, five minutes to seven, we can't go on and I'm done with today's meeting day. With the continued 9 o'clock fixed points tomorrow, paragraph 132, 70 and 133. Thank you. Have a good evening.
