ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u1	133. Oral inhalation These are oral interpelations addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. This morning, with the participation of the verifiers, they have drawn the order of Members in which they will perform and perform oral interpelations, first at 14.30 to 16 hours for the Prime Minister, to the other members of the government from 16 to 18 hours. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I now give the floor to the first winning Member, Karel Fiedler, to present an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka on the purchase and sale of fighters L-159. Mr Petr Fiala will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to focus on the economic aspect of this matter rather than on any practical aspect. We're here, Prime Minister, already mentioned this in the House's attic. I would repeat a few information very briefly. The Czech Republic purchased a total of 72 pieces of L-159 fighters at a total price of CZK 50 or 51 billion, it is mentioned. From this, I have information that I have obtained that 36 aircraft are stored, or half of these aircraft, can be said to have been purchased unnecessarily, which corresponds to the sum of CZK 25 billion roughly rounded. If we wanted to count the costs of storing these fighters and preserving them, from the information available by 2011 it was CZK 250 million, and that is roughly the amount we could get for selling the fighters we are currently dealing with. We also discussed in this House the proposal of the Parliamentary Club Úsvit on the care of a proper economy for the property of the Czech Republic and you were one of those who said that it was completely unnecessary, that it did not need to be dubbed that everything worked for us. And I have a very specific question: How has this been addressed in the specific measures and laws relied on by the government coalition? So who is responsible for the fact that taxpayers paid through the state budget, or not paid, but fired CZK 25 billion for useless fighters? And the second question was whether the persons who then decided to buy this meaningless number of 72 pieces of battlers L-159 were also involved in the tender for the rental of Gripen aircraft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u3	I thank Mr Fiedler. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all, it is obvious that the attempt to develop the aviation industry in the Czech Republic primarily through public procurement was a mistake. It's just not possible anymore. The production is so demanding, it is exposed to such sharp competition, it requires such extensive investment in research, innovation, in the sales network, in the service network, that it simply is not in the power of the state to be able to primarily develop the aviation industry in the Czech Republic through public procurement. Contracts from the public sector can be an additional source of income from our aviation industry. It may need to be helped to finance some projects, it may be reference projects that can help him in third markets, but in no way will it be possible for the future to try to do what the right-wing governments were trying to do at the time when this contract was realized, that is to say, to make a large order of L-159 aircraft, an order that was highly above the capacity needs of the then but also today's Army of the Czech Republic. In the end, the whole operation ended with the aircraft being preserved. They're stored in a protective atmosphere. They are continuously checked, of course, so that the storage is as little damaged as possible. For years and years, governments have tried to realize their sales simply because the aircraft are morally obsolete, so their value is falling. It's just not an airplane at the level they were at the time they were taken anymore. It is in my opinion that it is in the State's interest that the sale be carried out in order to be completed. Here are clear good news in the sense that the problem of non-sales of stored L-159 will be solved. After years when the sale was not possible, and a number of experiments were really carried out, all those attempts crashed, so managed to find on stored fighters L-159 buyers. Of course, the government is working intensively on this sale. The army should thus get rid of all stored aircraft and AERO Vodochody as their manufacturer should obtain two references, that is to say the reference thanks to the sale of the American company Draken and the reference thanks to the potential sale to Iraq. This is, in my opinion, good news for the Czech aviation industry, because it may mean a positive impulse, the restoration of the possibility of selling the original Czech combat aircraft. It will also give new projects an opportunity. After the sale of Draken, AERO immediately introduced a new project for the new generation of training aircraft L-39. The purchase by Draken is now fully confirmed, it is undergoing realization, and therefore we have a great chance that this sale will be completely completed. As far as dealing with Iraq is concerned, this is happening at the moment. There's an agreement between AERO and the Ministry of Defence. A total of 15 L-159 aircraft are expected to be purchased from the Ministry of Defence supplies to Iraq and AERO will purchase 4 active aircraft, 11 unused aircraft currently stored in a protective atmosphere. The completion of Iraq's transaction naturally depends on the development of a difficult situation in Iraq, where the generally unclear situation does not wish international trade, but the Iraqi government naturally needs weapons in this situation, which is a positive prospect for Czech arms exports. In addition, I would like to remind you that the donated Czech ammunition from military sources was also heading to Iraq to support defence against the Islamic State. I am convinced that the decision of the Ministry of Defence and Government on the sale of these aircraft was correct. For years, the problem has not been solved, and now I hope it will be resolved. Unfortunately, aircraft have become morally outdated, their market value has decreased significantly. And the fact that at the moment we are not able to make a sale at their cost corresponds to this situation and this condition. As I stress again, it is clear that it will not be possible to finance the development of the Czech aviation industry in the future through public procurement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask if Mr Fiedler has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u6	Thank you for the floor. I have to say that unfortunately, according to the assumption, I did not see the answer to what I asked for primarily, that is how the responsibility of the people who spent 25 billion extra from the state budget will be drawn up. I agree with that, Prime Minister, that you will explain here that the development of Czech aviation cannot be supported in this way. But I asked the question - you rejected our bill, which basically said that even those ministers had to manage proper care. And here, I know that it's in the past, that it's from past years, obviously it wasn't. So I will repeat my question: Will you demand some particular responsibility for specific persons, who have made this senseless trade, which has very seriously damaged our Republic and our budget, will you require and implement such a thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u7	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I think that the Constitution of the Czech Republic does not allow for the adoption of laws that have a retrospective impact, especially if it is a retrospective impact in the order of 15 20 years. I think we need to remember when those political decisions were made. This was done in the late 1990s, or this is the time when these decisions were made. It was done at the level of the then government, at the level of the Ministry of Defence. The State guarantees were granted to AERO Vodochody, which subsequently had to be reimbursed. This means that large public expenditures were made in connection with those decisions at the time, but the aircraft that were partly used by the Army of the Czech Republic were acquired, partly the demand was oversized. These are events that took place 15 years ago. Of course, anyone in this country can file appropriate criminal charges so that the police can deal with it. Mr. Ambassador, you can do this at any time, and you could have done it months ago, if you want the police to look back on these things, but the question is whether this police activity and the costs associated with it can lead to some concrete outcome after 15 20 years. I am rather a follower of concrete results, and the concrete result is that we will finally manage to sell out the excess L-159 aircraft after ten fifteen years and we will probably get some references for our aviation industry, perhaps even in the future some new orders, which could, in turn, partially recover the economic damage that has occurred here. It's a thing that's actually a long way in time in the past, and it's hard for us to interfere with the processes that have taken place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u9	Procedural proposal - President of the TOP 09 and starosta. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u10	Excuse me for entering, but I can see the number of entries. I am making a procedural motion for the House to suspend negotiations until at least theoretically we are in a position to resolve. That's what I'm saying, knowing that we're not in a position to agree on this because we're not a quorum. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'm looking at these empty government benches, and I'm wondering if you're making fun of us or not, co-workers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u11	Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister. [[Mr Kalousek argues that he has filed a procedural motion.]] Excuse me, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u12	I'm sorry, I won't talk long. I just want to point out that even the opposition benches are largely empty, whether they are right-wing or left-wing opposition, so unfortunately there is no attendance here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u13	Now, there's a procedural motion from President Kalousek and a request for a check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. At this point, I must say that the House really is not a quorum. Under the Rules of Procedure, more than one third of Members must be present, at least 67. I am therefore interrupting the House meeting by 14.55 hours for ten minutes with the call of our colleagues, and I believe that at 14.55 hours we will be in a position of quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u14	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we will continue our negotiations. According to the legislative opinion, it is not possible to give anyone room for objection during the intercession. I apologize for this procedure, but it is a new situation that has not yet occurred here. We're gonna continue with the oral questioning. The second interviewer is Mr Petr Fiala, who will interpel Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the state budget. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will not raise an objection, but instead I will bring my intervention on the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, you did not speak at all at first reading in the state budget, which I consider unusual, and I would therefore like to ask you to explain the basic parameters of the budget and actually some concepts. The Minister of Finance of your government has called this budget pro-investment, and this is not confirmed by the facts. Let me just remind you that in 2013, the state budget ended with a deficit of 81 billion. CZK and investments amounted to CZK 97 billion. and practically even higher, and this budget with a deficit of 100 billion. plans to invest only 75,6 billion. CZK, this means that the investments are 26 percent lower. So there would be no better budget, whose deficit is 100 billion. At a time when we expect GDP to grow from two to three percent, would you call it a redistribution budget? You take everyone, you only give to some of the selected groups. In doing so, it is very naive to expect that the growth we can enjoy now would be endless. Of course, worse times can come. If you look abroad, Germany, France and other states expect a possible economic downturn, but this government doesn't see it, it doesn't invest, it gives away instead. Prime Minister, I ask: Your government has good conditions for paying off debts in good times, investing in transport infrastructure, business, etc. Why aren't you doing this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u16	I thank Mr Fial and the Prime Minister for his response to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u17	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I have now, by chance, had negotiations with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce before the interpellation. We also discussed the budget with the Confederation of Industry and Transport, with the Confederation of Business Unions, with the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions, with the Association of Separate Unions. I can inform you that both business representatives and union representatives supported the draft budget. Perhaps Mr Fiala noticed that when we were discussing the state budget here, neither on Wenceslas Square nor on the square of the Republic nor here in front of the Chamber of Deputies or in the vicinity of the Chamber of Deputies was there a single protester demonstrating against government budgetary policy. We have built the budget that our country needs. It is a budget that increases investment year on year. It is a budget that expects us to be able to involve money from the European Union. It is a budget that, for many years, corrects the mistakes that have taken place here, for example. in government wage policy. I don't think it's possible for the right-wing party, specifically the ODS, who's been suffocating wages here for years, which means that for several years in a row, real wages have been falling, so that the right-wing party, which has been suffocating pensions for years, means that there have been miserable pension valorisations on average of CZK 45, at this point in time, has recommended to the government to continue this policy. How long do you think it would take for nurses, people who work in social services, police officers, firefighters to be patient with a government that reduces their real payouts for years and years? I mean, those people who work in these professions for the public sector, they also have to pay rent. He has to take care of his children, he has to take care of his parents. They have expenses associated with the operation of their families and households, and the state has cut their real wages every year. You can do that for a year, you can do it for two years, but you can't do it for five or ten years. That means we have ended the devastating policy of government in the field of salaries. And it's not true that we don't put money in investments. Take a look at the State Transport Fund's budget next year. He's counting on spending over 90 billion. CZK, and with regard to public budget deficits, public budget deficits will be lower than the outlook for right-wing governments that have been here in recent years. The state budget deficit will be lower than the outlook for right-wing governments at the time your ODS, Mr. Ambassador, was in the government. That's reality. This means we have a lower state budget deficit, but we are able to respond better within the budget to the needs of the country, so that we can ensure the good functioning of the state and ensure the investments that we will have to make. I think that, as the budget is built, it allows us to reduce the public budget deficit, allow us to fund public services well, to ensure the stability of health care, to ensure the stability and quality of our education system and to correct the worst mistakes that have been made in wage policy and social matters. [[15.00 hours]] I know you will blame us for valorizing pensions of CZK 200 on average, for being CZK 45 for you, but I do not think that for several years in a row more than two million pensioners in the Czech Republic can be valued in such a low way. I know you don't like that we're increasing public sector salaries by 3.5%, for doctors and for police officers by 5 percent, but we respond that your governments have actually reduced these professions for many years. This means that we are responding to the situation that you have created here, and I think that the ODS is very hypocritical if it criticises the current government for correcting the mistakes that the Civil Democratic Party has made. And the last thing I might have noted, and I'm following up on what you've recently proposed. After all, the budget also includes funding measures related to reducing value added tax on medicines and books from 1 January next year. And I want to remind you that it was the ODS that suggested when we were discussing this, the change in order to reduce VAT to everything. To make the value added tax more pronounced, although you have previously increased the value added tax. So, if we had agreed to your proposal, of course, the deficit of the state budget would have deepened much more significantly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will ask President Fiala for an additional question. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u19	It's complicated with the supplementary question, because you, Prime Minister, haven't actually answered my question at all. You repeated your mantra to me about how Nečasův' government ruled here, what we all know and how we made some mistakes that you're trying to describe here, but you're not answering me why you've drawn up a budget in this structure today, when we have completely different economic conditions. The numbers speak for themselves. If the state budget ended with a deficit of CZK 81 billion in 2013, and now you're planning a deficit of CZK 100 billion, and you're telling me it's lower, we really can't understand each other. But I have a follow-up question. I do not understand why, at a time when we have such good economic parameters, you are reducing research spending, and in fact, in 2013, research, development and innovation expenditure was CZK 5 billion higher than the ones you are planning for next year. Well, answer me that one more time, because this research is just one example of how little investment and little sensible is the budget you've drawn up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u20	I thank Mr Fial. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u21	I don't think it's just about spending, but it's also about efficiency. And with regard to expenditure on science, research and innovation in recent years and their effectiveness, I think that is a topic that we will certainly still be intensively addressing here in the Chamber of Deputies. Because, among other things, European funds have been used, among other things, with the use of European funds around 40 new research centres, several large scientific infrastructures and one of the serious budgetary problems that we will have to address is the sustainability of these centres over the next five years, when they will need to be financed from public budgets and when their revenues from commercial sources are limited precisely as a result of European conditions. And the question is whether the decision on these investments was really correct, whether it was sufficiently thought out and whether the Czech Republic could afford it from a budgetary point of view. I would like to remind you that this year, compared to Rusnokův's original plans, we have increased spending on science, research and innovation by CZK 900 million. We have moved 900 million crowns within the state budget structure, we have strengthened these expenses. In the year-on-year comparison next year, these expenditures will increase because we expect to increase expenditure on science, research and innovation in the first half of next year. This is what we agreed in the preparation of the State Budget Act. This means that, in contrast to the budget expenditure, there should be at least CZK 600 million left to strengthen this area and, of course, we will have a debate, in particular, on strengthening applied research, in order to strengthen the projects that are in the sense of the Technological Agencies, which can have a direct positive impact on increasing the competitiveness of our industry. So the government expects us to increase spending on science, research and innovation next year compared to this year's expenditure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u22	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Miroslav Kalousek will give the third interview to the Prime Minister on the coordination of foreign policy. Mrs Pavlína Nytrová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u23	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Czech Republic is responsible for the concept of foreign policy and its performance. The President of the Czech Republic represents the country on the outside. So much ústava. A large part of the Czech public, and I report to the public, is very concerned about a number of excesses on the international stage committed by the President of the Republic. As long as he went to Rhodes Island for a very controversial economic conference along with comrades zbytek and Filip as a senior from Vysočina, it was his business. But he was there this year as President of the Czech Republic and logically, because no one else would go there either, logically as the only head of state from all countries of the European Union, and he made statements in contrast to the politics of the Czech Republic. Shortly after the sanctions had been agreed, he on the island of Rhodes called for the abolition of these sanctions. Just as his visit to China was a great disgrace to Czech international foreign policy. For 20 years, Czech foreign policy has respected China's integrity, but this does not mean that it has resigned from the defence of human rights in China. [[15.10 hours]] In other words, Prime Minister, I have a simple question. Would you please agree as a government with the President of the Republic in Rhodes and his remarks? And do you agree with his statements in China? Yes or no? Yes, I'm fine. If not, I ask for an answer as a government to take steps not to repeat similar excesses of the President of the Republic, because the President of the Republic is irresponsible from the Constitution, while the Government is responsible. To this responsibility, I dare call you now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u24	I thank Mr Kalousek. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer to this interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u25	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, in particular as regards the Chinese way of the President of the Republic, it was nothing extraordinary. It was not a revelation from heaven that the President of the Czech Republic went to visit the Republic of China. It is part of the change that the new government of the Czech Republic has begun to implement. We made it clear at the beginning. It has its support in our electoral programs, it has its support in the coalition treaty, in the government's programming statement. We are consciously trying to intensify political contacts with the People's Republic of China. This means that in the first months of this year, after the new Czech government was established, a whole series of diplomatic negotiations took place. Czech ministers arrived in China, representatives of the Czech Republic visited the Czech Republic and a certain diplomatic summit this year was a visit from the President of the Republic, accompanied by a large business delegation. I want to inform you that next year a visit is planned at the level of the Prime Minister in the People's Republic of China. Again, we are counting on using visitors to support our exports to support the influx of investment in the Czech Republic. So again next year we expect a business delegation. I certainly disagree with the fact that the President's visit to China was a disgrace to our foreign policy. I think that the President's visit to China was a diplomatic political success and it was also an economic success. I am only sorry that the practical results of the trip overshadowed the debate about the aircraft the President of the Republic was taking to the Czech Republic. I think that if he chose standard transport, that means he returned with the same plane as he flew to China, then perhaps we would have more room to discuss the real content of the Chinese route, what happened there, how the doors for our exports to China were opened, and how investment from China was encouraged towards the Czech Republic. It is a matter related to the foreign policy of the new Czech government. It took place in the context of a visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in China and visits by other members of the Government in China. koneckonců all, several members of the government accompanied the President of the Republic on this trip abroad. I see no contradiction here and some need to coordinate foreign policy better. Another thing is a visit to the President of the Republic on Rhodes Island. I must say that this was the path initiated in principle by the President. The President visits Rhodes regularly every year. This year he was there, I believe, for the first time as head of state. I think that some of his statements on Rhodes do not fit into the concept of our foreign policy, and it is a topic that we are discussing with Mr President. After the President's direct election, we have found ourselves in a situation where the President of the Republic can be elected citizens regardless of the political composition of the Chamber of Deputies, regardless of the political composition of the government. A president who comes from a completely different political party than the parties of the current government or any future government coalition may be elected, and this, of course, requires much better coordination in the field of foreign policy. I am convinced that there are no conflicts in the fundamental features concerning the security interests of the Czech Republic, our interests in the continuation of the integration of the European Union, which would weaken the position of the Czech Republic on the outside. We are able to proceed together on key issues, and I do not think that there are conflicts here that would blur, obscure, weaken the diplomatic activities of Czech representatives abroad. This also applies to the NATO Summit, which took place this year, where the delegation of the Czech Republic was led by the President of the Republic and where the President of the Republic once again performed on the basis of a mandate approved by the Czech Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will ask Mr Kalousek for an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u27	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I note that the government is taking resignations to defend human rights in China as part of its new foreign policy. I'm not happy about it, but I have to accept it because the President didn't do anything else. The wholeness of China and the defence of human rights are two different things. And besides confirming China's integrity, he also resigned from defending human rights. It is sad information for me that the Czech Government agrees with this. Thank you for the information that the President did not represent the interests of Czech foreign policy on Rhodes Island, and therefore I repeat my question: What will you do to avoid repeating the excesses he could do there as a senior from the Highlands, but as president of the Republic, because the government is responsible, not him:
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u28	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an additional answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u29	In its foreign policy, the Czech Republic does not resign to the question of defending and promoting universal human rights. It is clear that this question remains and remains part of our foreign policy. That's based on our historical experience, our history, what we've been through. I think that whether right-wing governments or left-wing governments are here, the emphasis on freedom, democracy, the protection of human rights will remain part of our foreign policy. The debate is about how we will communicate these topics with individual states with which the Czech Republic is interested in maintaining diplomatic and economic relations. How we will communicate topics so that it is communication that will be as effective as possible. I do not agree that there have been any radical changes in the perception of China's territorial integrity or the policy of not interfering in China's affairs. Even when right-wing governments were here, the Czech Republic did not recognize the Tibetan government in exile. Even when right-wing governments were here, the Czech Republic did not recognize the independence of Taiwan Island, which means respecting the same principles as described by President Zeman during his recent visit to China. And I must say that it was confirmed in his interview for iDNES by Chairman TOP 09 by Karel Schwarzenberg, who clearly described that, even at the time he was Minister of Foreign Affairs, these principles were respected by Czech foreign policy towards China. On the issue of human rights, they are part of our dialogue with all countries with which the Czech Republic has foreign, diplomatic and economic relations. I also mentioned this question at the Czech-Chinese Forum, where we had the opportunity to negotiate with the Vice-President of the Chinese Government. I stressed that the issue of human rights is a characteristic part of our foreign policy and that we will talk about human rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u30	I thank the Prime Minister for his follow-up answer. Next, Mrs Pavlína Nytrová will give her fourth interview on the Prime Minister's case of reduced working hours. Mrs Dana Váhalová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u31	Thank you for giving me the floor. Dear Prime Minister, let me ask you about the issue of the agreement between employees, employer and state, the issue of so-called cursarbeit, the shortened working time, when it is primarily about overcoming the period of weak demand for employers. Let me ask the following questions: what choice, what form of sharing of work is being considered at the government level? Is there an analysis of the impact on the state budget that confirms or disproves the appropriateness of dealing with unemployment by agreement between employees, employers and the state? What are the results of this analysis, and how will cursarbeit be financed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u32	Thank you, Mrs Nytrová. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer to this interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u33	Thank you. honourable Members, I would like to inform you that the government is actually preparing a contribution in the context of active employment policy at a time of partial unemployment. The name used in Germany and Austria, where these contributions work, was used for this. It's so-called. cursarbeit. The contribution will be part of an active employment policy. It is considered that it would be provided in cases of extreme economic problems, either as a result of an external recession or as a result of an external recession. as a result of economic problems related to the application of international sanctions. Or it could be used in natural disasters that would hit the Czech economy in a large way. In such a case, the employer will have to prove that the blackout is caused by a disturbance in the national economy, i.e. that it is caused by a situation which he himself has not caused. The criteria for assessing this economic impact will be laid down and we are counting on the Commission to decide on the grant of the contribution, which will be created at regional branches of the Labour Office. The government will decide on the state of affairs where cursarbeit can be used and the use of these funds will be controlled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as well as by the Ministry of Finance. Within the framework of the Cursarbeit, a contribution should be granted to partially refund employers' wage costs, with the fact that we are debating whether this contribution, which will be provided, will be linked to the ongoing training by employees at the same time. We would like to achieve that, and the option that is being discussed at the moment is that the employer's contribution to wages would be 40 percent, the government's contribution of 20 percent. This means that an employee would receive a contribution of approximately 60 per cent in case of a company's failure. We would like this new tool to be applied from the beginning of next year. Therefore, we assume that on Monday the government should definitely approve the concept of cursarbeit in the Czech Republic. A concrete amendment should be prepared, and we would like to take advantage of the fact that an amendment to the Employment Act is being discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can anchor the cursarbeit in it. I think it could be a practical measure that could actually cover the company's temporary blackouts. This could help to stabilise employment, because it will allow us to do so, and it will allow companies not to have to release people if they have a temporary blackout in terms of their sales, they can keep employees until they can, for example, get new customers or get new markets, or until the economic situation improves, for example, when the consequences of a more significant natural disaster subside. So it is an instrument that should promote employment. It is an instrument that has been tested positively in Germany and Austria. So we have positive patterns here that we would like to inspire. At the same time, however, it is important that the rules are set in such a way that their abuse will not be possible. We simply do not want it to be an instrument that companies will use as an unjustified economic advantage. We don't want companies making excuses for a situation that didn't actually happen. There just has to be a clear set of rules. The provision of the contribution must be ruthlessly controlled so as to avoid problems in terms of the drawing of this money and to avoid any unfair distortion of competition. So these are the basic parameters that we are now debating within the government coalition, we are going to have a debate on the government. The coalition parties agreed to introduce a cursarbeit system in the Czech Republic. Now all we have to do is get him into specific legislation. But I hope that in January, February next year, the law could be part of our legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u34	I thank the Prime Minister, and although he seems very satisfied, I ask if he has an additional question. He doesn't. I thank the Member and the Prime Minister. Next, Mrs Dana Váhalová, on the European Council, will give the fifth interview. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Prime Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 and 24 October the European Council held a meeting in Brussels. The main agenda was the European Union's climate and energy targets by 2030. In this context, I would like to know what compromise has been reached and what these European Union objectives will look like. One of the main tasks of Czech energy policy is to guarantee the sovereignty of the energy mix in relation to the fulfilment of the objective of the share of renewable resources and energy efficiency. Has this objective been reflected in the results of the European Council negotiations? So what is the current information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u36	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u37	Thank you. honourable Members, I have described the mandate of the Czech Government before the European Council began its meeting at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs. The position of the Czech government was not surprising even for our partners within the European Union, because the last eight nine months, when the new Czech government is here, we defined the position right at the beginning and we communicated very intensively. We also agreed with employers on our position, we agreed with the unions and we tried to get an ally, which we succeeded because the position taken by the Czech Republic was also supported by the positions of other V4 countries, which means Poland, Hungary and Slovakia. We have also been communicating with states like Romania or Bulgaria on this matter. We have tried to ensure that the outcome of the agreement on the climate package at European Union level is sufficiently ambitious in terms of climate protection and the environment, but at the same time to take into account the need to maintain the competitiveness of the Czech industry. I think it worked because we managed to protect several important parameters within the climate package. Firstly, the climate package does not mean any interference with our national autonomy to choose an energy mix for the future. This means that the Czech Republic will not be bound by European regulations in terms of determining the share of individual energy sources, including the energy we obtain from the core, when we discuss the update of the raw materials policy. So keeping the freedom of the energy mix. Secondly, it has been achieved that the share of renewable resources, which has been set at 27 per cent at European level, will not have to be broken down between the individual Member States of the European Union. It can be assumed that a number of European countries will reach a higher share of renewable resources by 2030 than that set target. This means that it will be possible there to meet the overall parameters at European Union level without each individual member country being forced to achieve this objective. The position of the Czech Republic was logical because individual Member States have different natural conditions, have a different share of renewable resources, have different budgetary options for supporting renewable resources. Unfortunately, we have, to a large extent, narrowed our budget options in the past years with the rapid increase in solar capacity and the need for significant public support with the financing of solar resources in the Czech Republic. So here we have prevented the risks that would be associated with other pressures on the rise in electricity prices, on the increase in budget spending, if we had to achieve a mandatory target of 27 percent at national level as well. So the pace of increasing the share of renewable resources is once again up to us. How quickly we go towards a higher share of renewables. The last objective that has been set is the question of energy efficiency, which means reducing energy performance. The target at European level was set at 27 per cent, it was set as indicative and, once again, there is an explicit ban to mechanically define the objective among the individual Member States of the European Union. So here too, although it is undoubtedly important that we invest in energy efficiency reduction in the coming years, not only in industry, but also in households and the public sector, and we will do so, so here too we have freedom in terms of the pace of energy efficiency increase in the Czech Republic. [[15.30 hours]] That's what I think is the three key results of the agreement, the debate. We supported the reduction in CO2 emissions at European level by 40 per cent by 2030. Here we agreed, it was a compromise between all the Member States, and at the same time we negotiated such conditions. And one final point. What has been done to countries that have a lower standard of living within the European Union than the average, this also applies to the Czech Republic, is the issue of emission allowance trading. Two funds will be created here for the poorer Member States of the European Union. We'll be able to draw on both of these funds. Allowances that we will then be able to use as an investment support tool for our companies in terms of reducing energy performance and reducing CO2 emissions. So the last success that has succeeded is the question of the reserve for less wealthy countries in the European Union in the area of allowances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u38	Thank you, Prime Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps not an additional question, but just a thank-you for actually defending our objectives as we talked about it on the European Committee and as promised by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u40	I thank the Member and the Prime Minister. Mr Václav Klučka will give another interview to the Prime Minister on the commitment to raise salaries. Sorry, about crime in the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u41	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. That was really good. Dear Prime Minister, the social opinion and opinion of citizens in the Czech state regarding the assessment of crime is not good. It is also demonstrated by the figures that we will be able to get acquainted with after we discuss the 2013 Internal Security and Public Order Report in this House, and I assume that this will actually happen. Crime increased by 6.8 percent year on year compared to 2012 and this concerns violent, moral, property, economic and other crime. Violent crime, thus the number of murders, has dropped by 3.2 percent, but a new phenomenon of extreme brutality is emerging. More Markant was the increase in property and economic crime - by almost 10%. Drug crime detected - drug crime detected - increased by almost 27 percent. [[repeats with emphasis on the word found]] This concerns our citizens very much. There are new phenomena. There is abuse of disease names - ebola, blackmail. There's a lot of tension in society. Prime Minister, how does the government intend to deal with this situation further?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u42	I thank Mr Klučka. Before I ask the Prime Minister for an answer, I'll read the apologies. Today, from 16 o'clock, Mr Volný for working reasons, Mr Čihák also apologizes from 16 o'clock for working reasons, until 16 o'clock Mr Petr Kořenek apologizes for the seminar, further apologizes from this afternoon's meeting, Mrs Chalánková apologises for working reasons, Mrs Lorencová apologises for the afternoon's meeting for working reasons, and Mr Pavel Šrámek apologises for the afternoon's meeting for working reasons. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u43	Thank you. honourable Members, I must say that the fight against crime is one of the key priorities for the Government of the Czech Republic. I already talked about this when I outlined topics that we want to focus intensively on in 2015. One of these topics was the fight against crime, organised crime. I would like to inform you that the Government Security Council has repeatedly discussed the strategy for combating organised crime in the Czech Republic in recent months. I want to mention some concrete measures here concerning the security of citizens and our efforts to increase the security of citizens. The issue that has long been called for and called for by both citizens and self-government is the question of creating a register of offences. I am glad that the government has approved and has already sent here to the Chamber of Deputies a bill amending the Act on offenses. The proposed regulation should allow the recurrence of offences to be punished, in particular by decreasing the amount of sanctions to date, particularly in respect of property offences, civil coexistence and public order. To this end, for the first time in history, we are introducing a central record of selected offences, which will be carried out through the criminal record. That means we will use the capacity at the Ministry of Justice's disposal and follow up on criminal records and records of selected offences. If, after two or three years, it turns out that the list of selected offences will need to be extended, it will no longer be a complex operation, because we will simply change the law, we will expand the number of offences and we will be able to use the existing information system. We are increasing the fines that will be linked to the repetition of the offences. What is also important is that we are disrupting significantly the system that it was possible to avoid misdemeanor because of its limitation. At the original time of the year, people who committed misdemeanors tried to escape in various ways. The proceedings will now be suspended if they do not communicate with the authorities. That means there's a better chance that those who commit offenses will also be punished for those offences. So the first area we want to deal with is the small crime involved in the commission of offenses. But even the petty crime of course bothers people, annoys people, disrupts and complicates their lives. The second thing that is important is the gradual fulfilment of the number of police officers on planned states. I think that's an important thing. This means that we will have enough funds to ensure that the police can actually gradually fill all planned states and the number of police officers in all their departments. Cops, firefighters get new service vehicles. That means it's also an effort to invest in police equipment. I have already mentioned here the issue of the government's strategy to combat organised crime. Organized crime naturally has a number of forms, a number of pages. I want to mention some of them here, because there isn't much of that time. One important area is the fight against drug trafficking. In this area, cooperation has improved in combating drug crime with the federal states of Saxony and Bavaria, because unfortunately, the Czech Republic serves as a place where drugs are produced, and much of the production is directed towards richer markets in terms of drug dealers and dealers, and this is Saxony and Bavaria. It is possible to implement an event that disrupts the production of drugs in the Czech Republic. We are also trying to deal with Poland and we are trying to negotiate with Slovakia to harmonise rules on free-market drugs so that Poland does not provide quickly, cheaply available raw materials for the production and sale of drugs in the Czech Republic unnecessarily. So we have repeatedly discussed this with the Polish side and we support its efforts to tighten up legislation in this area. I also want to mention the part of organised crime that concerns stealing from the state, particularly in the form of tax fraud. It's important that the tax Cobra has started. This means strengthening cooperation between the police and the financial administration. I'm glad that the tax Cobra already has concrete results. I'm glad the central accounts log is being prepared. I am glad that the law on proof of the origin of the property is being prepared. All of this could also help in the fight against financial crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Klučka has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u45	Thank you, Mr President. That's the fact that the time for an answer is sometimes very small. But let me just say one more number. In 2013, 117,682 people were prosecuted and investigated, of which 52.6 percent were recidivists. This is the result of amnesty. But that's also a matter that relates at the moment to the quality of probation and mediation services. I would only ask, Prime Minister, if we expect some correction in this area, too, of relapses and probation and mediation services. Otherwise, I think that the statistics for 2014 will clearly show what you said today and that we can confront the results with 2013.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u46	Thank you, honourable Member. The Prime Minister will reply with additional answers. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u47	Thank you. I think that the analysis of statistics will be very important and interesting in terms of whether all the measures that we are committed to and we are trying to bring them to an end will have an effect in terms of reducing crime. And probably some of them will have a longer-term impact. But as far as probation and mediation services are concerned. What awaits us is the reform of prisons in general. This must also be followed by changes relating to the probation and mediation services. I would also like to achieve savings from the point of view of the operation of our prison system, if the Ministry of Justice finally succeeds in bringing the home arrest project to the end in the sense that there will be electronic surveillance of delinquents. The system is much cheaper and much more efficient. In my opinion, the money we will save in this area should be devoted to working with people who are based on prison to preventing the recurrence of crime. I think that could be very interesting for society and it could be very effective. So save money in prison and modernize probation and mediation services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u48	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. With the seventh interview, Mr Ladislav Velebný will speak, asking about the commitment to raise salaries. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u49	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, fellow Members, the government has passed its first budget, which, by its composition, priorities and by fulfilling the various chapters, characterizes a clear change in social and economic policy. A change that aims not only to correct the mistakes and social reform missteps of previous right-wing governments, but above all to improve and stabilise public services, to ensure the influx of new investment, to significantly support families with children, seniors and, above all, to help create new jobs. I therefore ask, Prime Minister, what particular impact this will have on the citizens of our country, including the commitment to increase the salaries of civil servants, and in what time frame this will all take place. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u50	I thank Mr Velebný. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I describe the timetable for which the Government of the Czech Republic has decided to raise salaries, I just want to return to the question of increasing salaries. Because he himself is very inaccurate in some categories of public sector employees. I think a lot of police officers and firefighters would be upset if we said we were increasing their salaries - now from 1 January it should be about 5%, respectively. from 1 November by 3,5 %, 1,5 % should be added to this from 1 January next year, i.e. by a total of 5 %. So it's not really any salary increases, but we're just returning the police, firemen and people who work in the security services, e.g. in customs administration or e.g. In prison service, part of what Nečasův' government took from them on their tariff payments. This also applies to other public sector employees, because the austerity measures that have been implemented in recent years have either led to a reduction in tariffs for public sector employees or led to funds being emptied for remuneration, i.e. The average rate of remuneration decreased. So in any case, if I count inflation, in recent years, real wages for people who work for the public sector have declined every year. For the first time in years, real wages for people working for the public sector will rise from 1 January next year. That's important. For the first time in years, the purchasing power of people working for the public sector will be higher than it was this year or last year. The second myth, which is very often mentioned and found in a public debate, is that the government increases the salaries of officials. I want to remind you that those classic officials who work for the state, whether in the financial offices or in the employment offices, or in the ministries, there are a total of about 65,000. These are the people who fall under the Civil Service Act. The rest, the few hundred thousand other public sector employees, are not officials. They're teachers, they're cops, they're firemen, they're people who work in social services, they're people who work in culture, they're people who work in health care. And I don't think it's possible to talk about them as officials. It's at least inaccurate. Thus, the increase in salaries applies not only to officials, but to public sector employees whose salaries are financed from the state budget or whose salaries are financed from the health insurance scheme. From 1 November this year, public sector employees' salaries will thus increase by 3,5 percent. Meanwhile, wage negotiations in the health sector are aimed at increasing the salaries of people working in the health sector from 1 January next year. Whether they are doctors, nurses, medical assistance, or technical staff, the salaries of health workers should be increased by 5% as of 1 January. At the same time, from 1 January to the November salary increase of 3,5 percent, for people working in security forces, these are police officers, firefighters, customs officers, people in prison service, an increase of 1.5 percent is added. So these are the changes we are counting on in the state budget. It's the changes we're counting on in the health insurance balance. And money will be provided for this increase. The government's aim is to increase tariffs, not to increase non-tax components of wages, but to increase the volume of tariff salaries to ensure that this increase reaches all public sector employees as a result of tariff tables. And perhaps the last comment concerning employees who are paid out of the budget of municipalities and regions. Because, of course, with the exception of employees in social services, where we expect to increase subsidies relating to social services, there will be an increase from 1 January and they will receive funding from the founders, so for municipalities and regions and their employees, most often officials, municipalities and regions will have to look for funds in their tax revenues, just like the government found these funds. This means that we will not grant special subsidies to municipalities and regions to increase their employees' salaries, but it will depend on their decision whether, like the government, they will decide to allocate part of their income to increase their employees' salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u52	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Velebný has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u53	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I'm really glad you explained the concept of civil servant here. And I'd be especially happy if the press noticed, too, because such a broad notion of what's hidden under a civil servant... They don't write about it. So thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u54	I thank Mr Velebný. Mr Antonín Seďa, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the financing of political parties, is prepared with the eighth question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u55	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, for many years, the public rightly criticizes the non-discriminatory financing of political parties and various political movements. Everyone talks about the need for change, but so far, not much has happened. The electoral campaign to the Senate and the municipal elections also showed that a number of places once again saw a close link between politics and entrepreneurs, namely by non-discriminatory financing of political parties. [[15.50 hours]] An example can be the ODS communal campaign in Uherské Hradiště, which I have mentioned here before. Speaking of this political party, I'm going to remind you that this party owes the state social and health insurance, and it's running an expensive election campaign, at least in our town. That is why I want to ask you, Prime Minister, how far is the preparation of the Act on the financing of political parties? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u56	Thank you, Mr Seďa. The Prime Minister has the floor and will answer how far the preparation of the Act on the financing of political parties is. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u57	Thank you. I believe that we owe the public legislation in two areas. The first is the one mentioned by Mr Seďa, and that is the question of funding political parties, but then there is the question of financing political campaigns, and I think that is a separate problem, which is here, because in elections are not only running for political parties, whose funding is controlled by me from a certain point of view today. and the Chamber of Deputies, but candidates are running for independent or candidates for the so-called House of Deputies. political parties that are essentially their private political parties, and there is absolutely no control of electoral expenditure or any obligation to publish any electoral expenditure. So we have different rules here today for individual participants in the political competition in the elections, and I think that's a mistake. So the first thing is the amendment to the Political Party Act. First of all, the Government's legislative plan envisages that the proposal should be submitted to the Government by January 2015 at the latest. Here we expect political parties to have an obligation to use a transparent account for their financing. We expect a limit to be set for donations from natural and legal persons of 2 million. CZK in one calendar year. We are counting on a more detailed overview of revenue and expenditure in the annual financial reports of the political parties. These should be published on the Internet. And we are also counting on the fact that, after five years, there should always be a mandatory exchange of an auditor who audits political party management reports. These are the fundamental changes our proposal is counting on. What I think is important is that we still discuss spending limits on individual types of electoral campaigns, which is related to the amendment of electoral laws, and remember that all candidates have to submit a report on the financing of their political campaign by a certain date after the elections, and that false data in such reports should be subject to a penalty. So I think that there are changes that must go beyond the amendment of legislation concerning the management of political parties. I think it is absolutely essential that we adopt these regulations, so that electoral campaigns do not really turn out to compete with marketing plans and to compete between those who are able to raise one-timely greater funds to implement these marketing plans, because we have seen this now in municipal elections, we have seen it in Senate elections - there have been huge differences between funds that, for example, have been able to invest individual Senate candidates in election campaigns, and in my view too large differences between these financial resources of individual candidates are already distorting the rules for fair competition in individual elections. So I expect that there will certainly be a heated debate here in Parliament, but I think that these are questions that we should be discussing in any case and which we should be dealing with in any case. Unfortunately, this has not been resolved in recent years, nor has it been resolved in the context of the adoption of rules for the direct election of the President of the Republic, and I think it is absolutely necessary that, in this parliamentary term, before the elections to the regions and before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, we are able to approve these regulations which, in my opinion, would strengthen the functioning of the democratic system in our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u58	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Seďa has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u59	Thank you. Prime Minister, I agree that this is also about financing election campaigns, or perhaps just about financing election campaigns. I was gonna ask you about a two-mile limit. CZK, if the government does not consider that it would actually increase the contribution of political parties, because from my point of view this will require a certain degree of control. And you said yourself that there are different choices, like the community's now running for independent, unspoiled candidates. There's no campaign billing report at all where they got the money, where they didn't take the money. Big political parties usually already have transparent accounts, or at least they're trying to do so. So if it's not better to go the way of the raise, maybe the contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u60	Thank you, Mr Seďa. The Prime Minister and his follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u61	We do not count, ladies and gentlemen, on increasing the state contribution but not reducing it either. During the term of office, the government does not count on such a thing. I personally consider it a mistake that in recent years the contribution to the political parties has been reduced. I think that was the result of such relatively cheap populism, and I think that any weakening of public funding for the functioning of political parties is something that promotes the privatisation of politics. And if we do not want to privatise policy in our country and privatise public space, then we should maintain the share of public funding for political parties, among other things. because political parties also fulfil certain social functions of integration of interests throughout society, and of course, it is necessary to ensure that political parties fulfil the public interest, so that political parties do not serve to promote the private interests of a commercial or commercial nature. Therefore, measures to strengthen control of the financing of political parties. So we don't want to increase the contribution, we don't want to reduce it. I think it is fair that the state contribution is distributed on the basis of the voter's decisions. This means that the parties receive only the kind of money they have of social support in each type of election as set up. And I consider it absolutely necessary, given that more and more entities are running under no control at all, they have no obligation whatsoever to account for anything in order to really remember these electoral bodies and set a clear obligation to provide information within a certain date of the election, to provide publicly available information on the resources for financing the election campaign and on the budget of the electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u62	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another one, Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel the Prime Minister on agricultural subsidies, will probably be speaking today. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I must say that I would forgive my intervention, Prime Minister, if the House's meeting was regularly attended by the Minister of Agriculture, who ignores us very much and misses us both in discussing his points and in the interpelations. That's why I'm sorry, but I can only ask you and ask you to do one thing. I recently registered in the media a dispute between the Minister of Agriculture, who expressed himself in the sense that the Minister claims that some of our joint debates with Mr Faltýnek with the President of the Agricultural Committee were intrigued by the tendency of us to set up a common agricultural policy with regard to the activities of Agrofert. We talked about this here today. I think we have given this a lot of time, but the chairman of the agricultural committee, in response to the blame, maybe not only his person, but also Mr Andrej Babiš's people, where the Minister of Agriculture says that he, unlike the Minister of Finance, has ended his business and transferred the company to his wife, says that he generally knows why the Minister has decided to increase the allocation to the sugar beet subsidy from the originally proposed 100 miles. 450 miles. CZK, while the text further states that so apparently - and does not want to blame anyone, here says the chairman of the agricultural committee, but could also stand with regard to his friends who sell seeds of diabetes. It would be something that adults just don't do. I am quoting the chairman of the agricultural committee, whom I have already said here today, I consider to be an expert, he has a number of information in the agricultural area. That is why I would ask you, Prime Minister, to examine the reasons for increasing the allocation of sugar beet subsidies from the originally planned 100 miles. 450 miles. Kč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u64	I thank Mr Bendl. Given that the time is up in a minute, or the time for interpelling with the Prime Minister is over, the Prime Minister will answer if the House doesn't object, and that concludes the interpelling with the Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u65	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also noted the shooting between Mr Faltýnek and Mr Jurečka, who has now appeared through the media and has been mentioned again today in the Chamber of Deputies. I can assure you, then, that Mr Jurečka, when we discussed and approved the conditions for agricultural policy in the coming years, did not mention such a thing and Mr Faltýnek did not mention such a thing at coalition negotiations, where he, of course, has access as club chairman. So it's strange for me personally that these things are being ventilated through the media in this way, but they have never been the subject of discussion at the Coalition Council or at the government's meeting. If there were such things and colleagues Faltýnek and Jurečka had comments about them, the main place where they should have raised it was the negotiating table where we agreed within the coalition and where we then aligned our positions within the government of the Czech Republic. I would just like to state, as regards the question concerning the increase in sugar beet commodity from CZK 100 million to CZK 450 million, the reason is that the Czech Republic is preparing to abolish sugar quotas in 2015. This is an objective phenomenon that will occur, and of course the sugar market will also respond accordingly. We have tried to set the conditions for agricultural policy under the common agricultural policy in such a way as to maximise the financing of development investment projects in agriculture, both agricultural primary production and processing itself. We tried to set them to strengthen the food self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic, which is also our important objective in terms of the country's safety as such. The aid will focus on micro- and small farmers and processors, such as family farms and other farms. So what I think is also important to say, given the briefness of time: the government has approved an increase in the co-financing of the Rural Development Programme through the state budget from 15 to 25 percent. This, I think, is also an important positive report for those who will apply for EU subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u66	I thank you, Prime Minister, and we will now continue to interpelise individual Members to the members of the Government. To begin with, in agreement with the President of the ODS, I will make one statement here, and that is that, in protest of the fact that the ministers are not involved, the ODS withdraws all its interpelations. It's about interpelling - I'll only say the numbers: 3, 6, 9, 16, 17, 20, 27, 28, 29 and 32. So all the other interpelations will take place in the order that they were drawn. First of all, Mr. Rom Kostřica has his interview, and he is intersecting Minister Svatopluk Němeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u67	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister Němeček, for the second time I have tried to present my intervention, which I canceled last time because of your absence. However, this time I would like to use this option and at least get your written answer. My interpelation concerns the Act on Medical Devices, namely their dispensation. I would like to clarify the problem on an example from my own field. Headphones are complex aids whose choice, setting and delivery are a direct part of the therapy that is qualified only by the doctor. They cannot and must not be assigned to a pharmacist or laboratory in the dispensary of medical devices. All over the world, headphones are included in risk group 2A. Their incorrect choice or setting can damage health and even cause permanent disability in children. It's not just my opinion, it's the official opinion of the professional medical company ORL. For these reasons, the Ministry of Health has correctly classified hearing aids as hazardous medical devices, which may be issued only for vouchers. This was done in Section 10 of the Working Version of the Act on Medical Devices, which was submitted to Members together with the first version of the Parliamentary Press 87. So what's the problem? The new Medical Devices Act does not specify how and where a hearing aid can be issued. Patients and their doctors are concerned that following the entry into force of the law, this treatment should be available by earphones. The Ministry of Health also realized the urgency of this issue in my field, but also in others. That's why it called for ten. 6. this year the representative of all professional companies, discussed this topic with them and then sent them the following draft solution. Section 48 of the original draft paragraph 1: A medical device may be issued only in a pharmacy, dispensing medical devices, optics or in a contractual dispenser, a doctor or dentist who prescribed or indicated the medical device if the release of the medical device is related to the medical care provided. The list of medical devices issued by a doctor or dentist shall be laid down in the implementing regulation. In the final version of the Act it is Section 49, which only states in paragraph 2 that a medical device can be issued only in a pharmacy, dispensing medical devices or optics or at a contractual dispensation. There's no clear indication of who's going to be the contractor. Therefore, we are still in some uncertainty, so please clarify and, in particular, assure that we doctors will be able to continue to provide treatment with earphones to our patients without complications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is not here, so the answer will be delivered in writing. I'm only asking you when you're intersecting to keep the time that's meant for each intersect. Another winner was Mrs Marta Semelová and Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared. Mrs Semelová is intersecting Minister Marksová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u69	Thank you. Dear Minister, about 1.5 million people are at risk of poverty in the Czech Republic. Another divides from the official integration income by a few ten crowns higher. Unfortunately, poverty also affects children. People get chilly when they see parents in debt just to pay for basic life needs, school supplies, and other education costs, and even lunches in the school cafeteria. More and more families are turning to schools that they don't have children to pay for their lunches. We have come so far that this created an account for which restaurants and individual donors send money. Last year, 370 schoolchildren who hadn't had lunch started coming to the school cafeteria. Now it's 600 children, and other requests are waiting for a settlement. I must say, it is unimaginable for me that whether or not a child eats depends on charity. That we're in a situation where poor children are being held. A few days ago, I noticed on Czech Television that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs wanted to help deal with the situation. Supposedly, it's not just about lunches, but it wants to focus on school supplies and the transport of children to schools. Of course, the best solution would be to eliminate the causes of poverty. Giving people a job and a dignified salary, which is impossible in this regime. I therefore want to ask what specific steps and in what time sequence you want to take. If you discuss this with other ministries, such as the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u70	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u71	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all, I wanted to say that I have accepted the patronage of this project, which is therefore from a private foundation, because I am aware that this is a problem and because I welcomed that at least the private foundation has raised it as a subject. We know that there are growing numbers of children whose parents don't have enough to pay for lunch, but at this point, we don't have any numbers in our hands. As for questions about cooperation with other ministries, a meeting has already been held this week at the level of the Deputy Ministers between our Ministry and the Ministry of Education and we are beginning to discuss two issues. So, once there is a lunch allowance for poor children, and the second question I'm dealing with is school buses, because I think that in our country, when someone lives in a excluded locality, but even normal villages are enough, so children have discounted fare, but they still have to pay for it. I think that the idea of really special school buses that drive around the countryside in some less accessible areas and only carry children, and it's free, is very interesting. But we're at the very beginning of these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u72	Thank you. The Member will have an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u73	Just a little something already. I would like to see any systematic solution that is definitely needed. I welcome these steps. It might also be good to make a deal with the Ministry of Regional Development, because I know that in some regions or even here in Prague city parts do certain accounts, so put these things all together to really be a systematic solution
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u74	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u75	I forgot to specify that we are setting up a working group and we are also counting on inviting other departments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u76	Thank you. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, who is intersecting Minister Svatopluk Němeček, is next in line with his interpelling. Mr. Antonín Seďa will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u77	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Minister, from publicly available sources and from information from my fellow Members, I have received information that the new Decree List of Performances with Point Values will contain two new performances, namely the collection and application of autologous stem cells in the ischaemic disease of the lower extremities. It is supposed to be a joint initiative of the Angiological and Diabetological Society. Can you please state the reasons for the introduction of such costly treatment? According to the information available, this performance is to be evaluated by about 100,000 points, which is equivalent to the remuneration from health insurance of approximately CZK 100,000 per performance. Minister, can you answer a few questions, please? One. Why was the possibility of introducing this new performance not discussed in a working group to prepare a list of performances where expert and economic justification would have to be provided? Two. In what European country or country of the European Union is similar treatment carried out by stem cells except for hematology? Three. In which country of the European Union is such treatment covered by health insurance? Four. How many patients are to be treated with this exercise in 2015 and in which medical facility? Five. In this case, is clinical research completed in the third stage and is standard treatment authorised by the State Institute for Drug Control? Six. Isn't the payment of this performance contrary to the Public Health Insurance Act? Dear Minister, can you confirm or disprove that you, as director of the Ostrava University Hospital, have requested the General Health Insurance Agency to pay for a similar treatment for about 2,000 patients a year? And isn't this a performance to secure revenue for the newly established 4MEDi science centre - the Center for Cell Therapy and Diagnostics in Ostrava? I ask you to submit a request from professional companies to include this new performance, its proper justification and the relevant calculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will be answered in writing. Mr Antonín Sedya, with his interview with order number five, is now Mr Antonín Seďa and Mr Jan Farský will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I know that Mr. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec is currently in the Zlín Region at the site of the explosion of the ammunition warehouse. However, I will allow myself to present oral questioning on this issue, because I think that the two problems I will be discussing are serious enough for the Ministry of the Interior to act, by the way, by the Ministry of Defence. The explosion of ammunition in the ammunition warehouse in Vrbetice pointed to two possible problems. The first is the danger of these ammunition warehouses for citizens of surrounding cities and municipalities. The other is the fear of illegal trafficking in ammunition and, in general, military material. I therefore understand the concerns of the citizens of the municipality and the representatives of the Zlín Region about my safety and the safety of the population. I know you're personally at the scene of this disaster today. Nevertheless, I use this interpelation to ask you for immediate verification of the safety of all ammunition warehouses, including verification of whether the storage of ammunition, explosives or other military material is in accordance with the applicable laws of the Czech Republic, with applicable regulations and decrees. It is now about the speed of checks carried out, because there is a legitimate suspicion that not only the safety of the storage sites, but also its own trafficking in ammunition does not comply with the rules and security interests of our country. Thank you for your answer and especially for your quick response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The eighth draw was drawn by Mrs Alena Nohavová and Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. Mrs Nohavová intersects the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u81	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I ask for your opinion on the completion of the D3 motorway. I've already intersected you about the completion of the D3 in the direction from Tábor to the border with Austria. This time I ask you to tell me what the situation is in the opposite direction, i.e. from Tábor, respectively from Miličín to Prague, i.e. the extension of the Central Bohemia Region. On some sections, the situation is very trivial. I mean the sections around Benešov, Bystřice and Olbramovice, where continuous columns literally separate the village into two parts and the inhabitants of Olbramovice suffer from excessive noise and smog. So the question is very simple: Is it already decided which way will the route lead? There are two variants, which means through the Sázavská valley or towards Mirošovice and D1. This is followed by a second question: At what stage is the preparation? I am therefore referring to land purchases, which often make it impossible to build both motorways and roads. And the third question: When is the start of construction planned, or in what part of this route through the Central Bohemia Region will be started with construction? One final point. Building D3 will be greatly relieved even D1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u82	Thank you. The minister has just arrived, so I assume he'll be ready to answer your question. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u83	Good afternoon, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the question of the completion of the D3 motorway in the direction of Tábor-Prague, I would just like to say a few basic points that need to be addressed at this point. Its stabilisation in the principles of the territorial development of the Central Bohemia Region, or ZÚR, has been abolished, is a prerequisite for continuing the preparation of the D3 motorway in the Central Bohemia Region. This means that once the principles of territorial development of the region are approved, we can continue to stabilise the leadership in the Central Bohemia region. The Corridor for the D3 motorway in the Central Bohemia Region was abolished in the principles of territorial development by the Regional Court in Prague J. 50A9/2013-85 of 14. 6. 2013, including the Václavic clutch, that's Benešov's connection. Here is directly the judgment, which was based on the submission, and thus the principles of territorial development were abolished at the Regional Court in Prague, without which it is not possible to continue. [[16.20 hours]] The representative of the Central Bohemia Region approved Resolution No. 77-9/2013ZK of 9. 12. 2013 acquisition of an update of the principles of territorial development at the request of an authorised investor. ŘSD asked the Central Bohemia Region to approve the new principles of territorial development of the region, and we did this 9. 12. 2013. So if you take it that the principles of territorial development were abolished in the ninth month, and we asked the Central Bohemia Region as an investor in the 12th month to renew the principles so that we could move on. 27. 11. 2014 convenes the Regional Authority of the Central Bohemia Region, the Regional Development Department, a joint meeting on the proposal for the first update of the principles of territorial development and discussion of their impact on sustainable development of the territory. The institutions concerned may apply their opinions within 30 days of the date of the joint negotiations, until 27. 12. 2014 and, within the same period, neighbouring regions can make their comments, so we assume that the decision on the principles of territorial development of the Central Bohemia Region could be terminated this year. Then, once this has been settled, any contradictions between the opinions of the institutions concerned and the comments made and their possible contradictions can be resolved several times. Unfortunately, we can't control it. There will then be a public discussion of the updating of the principles of territorial development and it is not possible to estimate the date of consultation with the public. All of these things I have mentioned fall within the competence of the Central Bohemia Region, not the Ministry of Transport or the Directorate of Roads and Motorways. Once an update of the principles of territorial development is approved, it will be possible to continue the preparation of five motorway sections between Prague, Prague Circuit and the border of the Central Bohemia Region. For the sake of completeness, we state that the D3 motorway is already in operation from the Central Bohemia Region to the city of Tabor, so what it is is is really the primary issue of the Central Bohemia Region. About your question about the Olbramovice. We are preparing a solution for the city of Olbramovice, a transport security measure that should improve the situation when crossing from one side to the other. This is being discussed with the council of Olbram. I know that the Road and Motorway Directorate has this study prepared, and if you'd like, of course, I'll give you the more detailed information I have here in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u84	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if you'll have an additional question. It's not like that. Thank you. Next, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, who interpels the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek, was drawn as the tenth. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Home and Defence Ministers were duly excused by the justification that they were found at the site of the explosion. In the hope that there is a Minister of Foreign Affairs at the site of the explosion, I am withdrawing my intervention. I don't like talking to walls.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u86	Okay, thank you. Now, then, Mr Jiří Zlatuška, and after that, Mr Ivo Pojezdný will be prepared. Mr Jiří Zlatuška intersects Minister Marksová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u87	Mr President, the Minister is not here, but my question, which I want to interpel, is very simple. In connection with the preparation of the law or the negotiation of the Children's Group Act, tomorrow we will face the veto of the President of the Republic. During the hearing it turned out that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had no idea how many children were taking an event. The negative impact on forest kindergartens or on education, which was highlighted in the press release by Man in Need, maybe applies. I do not consider it a problem that the Minister herself does not know this, it is only one of the sub-areas, but if this law has been in question for several months and at least since the law came from the House to the Senate, that it is a real problem, that it could adversely affect a large number of forest kindergartens, or, as the People's Press Release in Need, published by EDUin, by tens of thousands of children, and in this situation the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has no idea what the specific number of children that could have affected this would actually be, I think there is a big problem on the part of the employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I expect that there will be redundancies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u88	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time is up. If that's the way you can ask it as an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u89	Yes, the question only concerns how many people will be released for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u90	Thank you. And I'll ask Secretary Marksová for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u91	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, if I had been really politically seasoned right now, I would have said a number and it really would not be a lord of God to say if it was wrong. If I said 10,400 kids, none of us would know if the number was right or wrong. It's just like an introduction. Otherwise, I would like to say and remind you that the Children's Group Act has been established here for seven years and started to be created on the basis of the requirements of non-profit organizations and employers as well. We have a 2013 study available for our ministry. It was attended by 52 companies of different sizes up to 250 and over 250 employees. These companies were from different regions, from different areas and expressed their wish to have a law that would allow them to set up some babysitting, which, at the same time, would not be as difficult as kindergarten. Of these companies, 84 percent said that their previous return on maternity or parental leave was very important to them, especially in order to maintain knowledge in society, because it is simply a problem when people leave them for parenthood, while 60 percent said that at that time, in 2013, they were unable to provide employees with corporate pre-school facilities. So the stimuli really came from downstairs. We also need to realise that we are moving until now in a situation where the nursery has been de facto abolished in our country, that is, a child care facility under three years of age. At the moment, if we were to take the public facilities that are already at the very minimum here in the Republic, I think around 90, it is capable of providing the care of about 10 percent of children under the age of three, which is completely ridiculous, and we are repeatedly criticized by the European Union. Of course, a number of non-profit organizations have started to deal with this in some way recently. And what actually came out of that big debate about the Children's Group Act was that here an incredible number of organizations of all kinds care about preschool children and drive in a strange gray regime, it means the rules kind of, but not completely. So one of those intentions of the law was to give the rules to everyone, because I still think that when we talk about caring for preschool children, we should probably know who cares and under what circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u92	Thank you. I wonder if you'll have an additional question. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u93	Madam Secretary, I'm not at all happy with the answer. I asked about the unwanted impact on the forest kindergarten specifically. With člověk in distress, it's about 10,000 children they report in a press release. I understand the God-like intentions of general, but if there is an unwanted impact on forest nursery and parents are interested in these forest kindergartens, not some other facility where the sinks or toilets will be adequately dimensioned, I would expect the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to find out for those plus minus two months at least how many children are really concerned with this, how big the problem is, whether we have or not to adopt a rather special legislative structure tomorrow. The rest is uninteresting to me. If they don't have this data at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, then somebody in there has failed uglylylyly and should bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u94	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u95	A refill. Firstly, forest kindergartens, as I have already said here during the negotiation of this law, have been seeking inclusion in the network of kindergartens for several years. And now, about a week ago, the Minister of Education made it clear that he included them in the school law and that some details need to be resolved. The Minister of Health also said that he was applying for this and that he would deal with hygiene. That means it's a thing that goes and always went completely outside of our law, first of all. The number that they probably have about 2,000 kids, that's what they said. And we don't know because they're not registered anywhere in any network, and we don't have the strength to add up the children in the forest nursery. That's what the association has to tell us, and all we have to do is trust her. First of all. Secondly, with regard to Man's equipment in distress, I would like to say here, and as if we are communicating with Man in distress, so for years when the law was being prepared, he prepared himself in cooperation with the parent centers, which normally declared that he cared for the children. A person in distress woke up, so to speak, sometime in the summer, when the legislative process was almost completed. We have not yet received any official information about which facilities we are talking about, exactly what they are operating and why they are afraid of falling into children's groups. And again, we have almost no way of knowing the number of children. How would we do that when they're unregistered and when basically, as it turns out, it's only now in the last two months that they're basically running black kindergarten? But these are social-service facilities, they're low-level facilities, so they're not supposed to be kindergartens, and they shouldn't apply to the Children's Group Act. We don't know that. They would have to tell us clearly how many of them they had, exactly what they had in mind, and why they thought the Children's Group Act would ever apply to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u96	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now the twelfth is Mr Ivo Pojezný, who intersects Minister Marcel Chládek, and Mr Miroslav Opálka will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u97	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am pleased to be able to interpel you directly, that I am lucky that you are present as a minister. Career system for teachers of kindergarten, primary, secondary and higher vocational schools, which also includes so-called. standard teacher, raises quite a lot of questions in pedagogical public. Not only because it should result, as the authors of the project say, in increasing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, but also because, or for example. because it is intended to affect the remuneration of teachers, but also the running of schools. I would like to know in this context, firstly, what stage is the preparation for the career system of teaching staff, secondly, where the professional pedagogical public can keep getting acquainted with the work on this project, and thirdly, whether there are already some of the first outputs from 102 schools involved in the piloting of this project. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u98	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question at the same time. What I can say, I will say on the microphone, and given that I have taken some material that has about 25 pages, which collectively describes the career system, I can possibly give the honourable Member an individual insight into this system for some additional answers. It must be noted that this project is from European systems, European money, so-called. IPn. The project was launched in 2012 and the project will be completed 15. 1. 2015. During the completion, of course, there will be a pilot start-up of these individual systems. There's three ways. You. you mentioned in particular the way of developing professional competences, when teachers will be divided into four career degrees. The first two will concern the vast majority of teachers, the third and fourth levels will concern selected teachers. The start-up phase that you referred to in relation to funds should be fully launched from 2015 to 2019, i.e. from the first July 2018. Even though there was a commentary procedure that I can then let you look at, it is also expected that the authors of this project will debate with teachers about this system in individual parts of the region and it will be modified. With two parts. The first part is the IPn career system, and the second part is the real implementation of the career order, which will be based on IPn, and of course we have to keep gros for one simple reason - because there is sustainability of this project. As far as the specific time sequence is concerned, I don't want to read the whole system here, but there are individual steps, i.e. I would like to give you an insight into the selection procedure for candidates in the certification committees, the appointment of these commissions sometime for 2008, the submission of supporting documents in the certification procedures. Then, of course, there's the whole process of running into individual school systems. But since the material is really twenty-five pages, if I may, in such a way as to shorten, allow the Member to peek into it or give him a copy of the material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u100	Thank you, Minister. I ask the Member whether the answer, as it has been given, is sufficient, with the Minister sending you the documents he has brought with him. Thank you. We'll proceed as the interpelations have been drawn. Mr Miroslav Opálka will now have his intervention and Mr Jiří Štětina will be prepared. Mr Opálka is intersecting Mr. Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u101	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I would like to wish you a pleasant family vacation in France, but since my interpelation is quite acute, I will allow myself to present it and ask for a written reply, even though I assumed that you would be able to defend yourself publicly and set the matter straight. I'm talking about the material that goes around the Internet. I'd take the liberty of giving him a little quote, which is actually gonna be a problem. The Ministry of Finance reported that it compiled and analysed a database of hospital cost data and a comparison of health insurance payments. For example, it wants to use this analysis to optimize health insurance or increase the economic efficiency of health care provided. However, it turned out that the Ministry of Health was completely hugged. According to the medical journal, the Ministry of Finance exceeded the law of competence. Moreover, he hides who processes sensitive data for him from health insurance companies, which strengthens the suspicion that he entrusted them to the chosen private company, and also without legal support. [[16.40 hours]] Dear Minister, I ask if this information is based on the truth and if so, what explanation do you have for this? Personally, I'm in favour of making amends when public and public budgets leak money into black holes. On the other hand, I think that the correction must take place in a legal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u102	Thank you. The reply will be sent to you in writing. Mr Jiří Štětina, who intersects Minister Helena Válková, is now on the 14th in order and Mr Daniel Korte will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u103	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, I appeal to you with an interview on ongoing criminal proceedings against the former Director General of ŘSD in the Czech Republic . Alfred Brunclík. Construction and management of the motorway and road network in the Czech Republic, the situation at the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate-General of ŘSD has long been a matter of interest to political parties, politicians, professional and lay public, but especially lobbyists. We are criticized by the European Union and especially by neighbouring states because of the bad transit of our republic on high-quality roads and motorways. From media sources, but especially from the SAO's audit report, I prepared an analysis concerning the role of all directors on the overpriced low-quality network of motorways in our Republic. . Alfréd Brunclík served as Director General since 5. 3. 2007 until 25 August 2010 and was the second longest acting director of ŘSD since 1997. During its entire management in the ŘSD, there have been no problems in the construction and management of the motorway and road network that we are discussing today. Therefore I am very surprised that against Ing. Brunclík is currently being conducted several criminal proceedings in connection with the performance of the Director-General's duties, even from the time when Mr Hala was working on ŘSD. I therefore have serious doubts, Madam Secretary, that criminal proceedings are conducted objectively, are not influenced politically, and the charges can be purposefully designed. In the Ing case, I believe. Brunclík is not respected for human rights and international legal standards in the field of criminal law. I will be very happy if you check this case from your post, and if you find the shortcomings mentioned above, you will draw the appropriate conclusions and name who is behind this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u104	Thank you. I'll ask Secretary Válková for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to comment on such a specific question in the criminal case. As you all well know, even in the media and taking into account applicable legal standards, I am not entitled as Minister of Justice to intervene in any way in criminal proceedings, but, of course, I can use my competence under Section 13 of the relevant Act 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, to request more specific information on the current state of the proceedings, how the matter is going, whether all guarantees of an impartial, fair trial are respected, whether there are unwarranted interventions in the fundamental human rights and freedoms of the accused, whether there are delays and whether the investigation is actually conducted impartially. Whether that's how both the D.A. and the judge are progressing. So, in this case, I understood rather from the question that was addressed to me that it was a prosecutor's office. I will collect the relevant information and inform you of the result I will request in writing. I cannot say more on this matter now and thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u106	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I wonder if that's the answer. Okay. Thank you. Mr Daniel Korte will now speak with his intervention and Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Since Minister Zaorálek didn't come, I'm withdrawing my interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u108	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Věra Kovářová, who is intersecting Minister Karla Šlechtová, and Mrs Anna Putnová will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u109	Thank you. Madam Secretary, according to my information, the Government of the European Commission has been returned to the recasting of one of the operational programmes, the Rural Development Programme, which is managed by the Ministry of Agriculture. I believe that one reason may be that, rather than the Rural Development Programme, this operational programme should be named, in view of its proposed form, a programme for the development of farmers. For example, cultural monuments and their restoration become the proverbial cinderella in the new programming period. Not that they are not supported at all, but their circle is considerably narrowed and the amount of funds reserved for their renewal is reduced. But back to the back-to-back draft operational program. Rather than my assumptions about the reasons for his return, I'd like to know your explanation and, above all, information about the next procedure. I also wonder if similar negative developments can be expected in the case of other operational programmes. As for the aforementioned restoration of cultural monuments, which I consider worthy of your attention, I would like to know whether you are planning to finance it in the framework of the adaptation of operational programmes, or whether the necessary resources can be found in national resources. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u110	Thank you, Madame. I will now ask Mrs Anna Putnová, who is intersecting Minister Marcel Chládek. Mr. Jan Farský will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u111	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention on Minister Chládek concerns a development programme aimed at increasing the salaries of teaching staff in regional education for 2014. This surely bountiful activity would be welcomed by the entire public, because the Ministry has the authority to declare such programs. However, according to the school law itself, all discrimination in access to education under Section 2 point 2 is prohibited. 1 and no type of founder is privileged above others. This development programme, which you have declared, Minister, is intended for all regions, but only for some founders, virtually. private settlers and churches are not included in this. So my question is simple. How is it that you have approved the announcement of such a clearly illegal development programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u112	I thank you and ask Minister Chládek to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u113	Thank you. I do not think that this development programme is illegal for one simple reason, because it is intended for the staff of schools and educational establishments, which are set up by municipalities, associations of municipalities and regions, on the grounds that their employees receive salary and are remunerated in accordance with Government Decree No. 564/2006 Coll., on the salary ratio of employees in public services and administration, whereas employees of schools of other founders, such as those mentioned by church or private schools, receive a salary according to contract wages, and its amount is therefore not subject to regulation under the above-mentioned government regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u114	Thank you. I ask if you will have an additional question, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u115	Dear Minister, when you announced this development programme, you made it clear that you wanted to strengthen the prestige of teachers. So how do you justify not remembering the founder and thus discriminate against one part of the founder? So for this reason, you have bypassed your development program of a kind of founder, which I understand as discriminatory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u116	Thank you for your follow-up. The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u117	It's not against the law anymore, if I understand correctly. I'm glad we explained this. The second part of the question. Since we are preparing a new method of funding for ecclesiastical and private education, and we are counting on the fact that, on the basis of this debate, which is attended by both the Church and the private school, a new method of funding will be invented, including both the contribution from the State and the contribution from the founder, that is, the Church or the private entity, and we will do the financing of this system of education in a different way, so that means that the State now does not discriminate against any of them, but gives its contribution according to who the founder is. As you know, there is, of course, another way of financing for schools that are set up by public bodies. In private, it is a little different, but the state also makes a significant contribution to these subjects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u118	Thank you. And I will now request an interview from Mr. Jan Farský for Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. The Member is not present. Well, in that case, we'll keep going. I would therefore ask Mr Ludvík Hovorka for his intervention on Minister Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Minister, the activities and management of subsidiaries in Hospital Na Homolka is a massive criminal problem and I expected you to take decisive action on this matter. Hospital Na Homolce went through public procurement through all purchases through subsidiaries HOLTE MEDICAL and HOLTE s.r. o. The existence of subsidiaries has been tolerated by the Czech Government since 1996 and since 1998. According to estimates, at least 700 miles per year are being taken out of the hospital. Crowns. Former senior managers of this hospital are currently under investigation, former director of Dbalý and former Deputy Director of Toběrný. The selection procedure for the director's post has been cancelled, and you have been appointed directly by doktor . Ivan Oliva. But he left all the members of the previous management, including the former director, as well as the people who are in subsidiaries. I think that you should have clearly ordered here, Minister, to convene extraordinary general meetings of these subsidiaries and to exchange statutory bodies, since so far there are people in these statutory bodies who were there a year ago and who are responsible in many cases, whether they are Mrs Bieleszová or former lawyers of Shachta and partners. I think it is necessary to fully uncover the cards, save the documentation, conduct a forensic audit and prepare subsidiaries for extinction. Instead, in the reply you gave me, Minister, you said only that you turned to the Office for the Protection of Competition to see if there was something illegal in subsidiaries and whether they were entering contracts in accordance with the law. I'll tell you, they didn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u120	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Unfortunately, the time that was meant for your interpellation is up. Ask the question so that it can be answered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u121	I ask you, Minister, to state whether you will file a criminal report on specific persons and specific companies in respect of violations of the rules in the management of foreign property, because it is your duty as the supreme representative of the Ministry of Health and, of course, the superior of all faculty hospital directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. And now Mr. Antonín Seďa will have his interpellation with the Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. Mr. Rom Kostřica will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I understand, I even welcome your visit today to the site of the ammunition explosion in Vrbetice, Zlinsko. However, I fear that both the Ministry of Defence and the law enforcement agencies should act as quickly as possible. In particular, because there is a suspicion that the storage of ammunition did not comply with safety standards. It is also interesting how the media informed that IMEX GROUP, which had already rented the warehouse from the Military Technical Institute, had illegally traded military material. In my opinion, it is necessary to immediately check all ammunition warehouses in the Czech Republic for compliance with the security regulations and laws of the Czech Republic, as well as whether the landlords of the state organizations or contribution organizations established by the Ministry of Defence promote consistent compliance with the applicable security measures. I believe that it is necessary to immediately start checking the handling of ammunition and military material. I therefore ask, Minister, if you have already started it and if you do not, whether you will start it as soon as possible. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Kostřica. Mr. Daniel Korte will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given the absence of Minister Němeček, I am withdrawing this second interview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u126	Thank you. I will therefore ask Mr Korte with his interpellation to Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u127	Thank you for the floor. As I have already said here, because Minister Zaorálek was not coming, I am withdrawing my intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u128	Thank you. I shall therefore ask Mrs Věra Kovářová. Mr. Antonín Seďa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u129	Dear Minister, I am addressing you with the following problem, with which I contacted Minister Šlechtová just a moment ago. The point is that, in my view, the current form of the draft operational programme of the Rural Development Programme for the new programming period is a denial of the meaning of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The purpose of this Regulation is to reduce poverty in rural areas and increase their economic development. Why do I think that? In my view, in the new programming period, the topics for the restoration of rural development, including infrastructure and services, cultural heritage and wider entrepreneurship, should be launched in the Rural Development Programme, and I think this is very bad. In this context, I even have to say, as I have already mentioned, that the rural development programme in the current concept should be changed to the Agriculture Development Programme. As you know, putting an equal between the countryside and the farmers is foolish. My question is, therefore, whether, as part of the adaptation of the Rural Development Programme, which has been returned to the Government by the European Commission, you will try to include the above topics so that the Rural Development Programme is not a name misleading and, in particular, I am speaking of cultural monuments. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u130	Thank you, Madame. Mr Antonín Seďa now has two interpelations, the first is for Minister Antonín Prachař and the second for Minister Daniel Herman, so I ask you for the first interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, the Czech Railways have long-term problems with the capacity utilisation of passenger transport. However, due to the repairs of the D1 motorway, the opposite effect occurs when capacity is overloaded. It is mainly about the transport of persons to Moravia, especially on Friday afternoons or before public holidays or extended weekends. At the same time, trains outside some international or Pendolina through certain modernizations do not match the quality of passenger transport of the 21st century, unlike the competition that has bought new train sets. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, whether the Czech Railways are planning to strengthen the connections in these incriminate terms or whether there is a plan to modernize the train sets of our state carrier. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u132	Thank you, and I think we can proceed directly to the second interpellation. The Minister of Culture has arrived, so you can continue the second interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u133	Thank you. Dear Minister, the Baroque cemetery in Střílky was built between 1730 and 1743 from the impulse of Antonín Petřvaldský from Petřvald. After the reconstruction, which, among other things, is still not completed, the stairs, balustrades and walls were repaired. Copies of previously stolen and still unfound statues were placed. In 2010, the Baroque cemetery was declared a national cultural monument. However, the state is not very helpful to this memory. The Civic Association for the Rescue of the Baroque Cemetery in Střílky has done and is still doing a lot of work and activities to complete repairs. For example, a year ago, when they did not receive a subsidy from EU funds, they organized a public collection. For these reasons, Minister, I am calling on you to support the completion of the correction of this national cultural monument. Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u134	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, I thank the honourable Members for this impulse for this interpelation, because I know the Baroque cemetery in Střílky, I visited it and I consider it truly a unique Baroque monument, which really has no equivalent. As far as factual information is concerned, as has already been said here, the cemetery was declared a national cultural monument in 2010. The cemetery reconstruction event was included in the architectural heritage rescue programme between 1999 and 2003 and then for the second time between 2006 and 2014. Over this period, a contribution of almost 16 million was granted for its renewal. CZK, specifically it's 15,706 miles. Crowns. The area including the chapel was statically secured, stone elements were restored. In recent years, even this year, the chapel has been renovated because there are some blocks that need to be replaced. This year, i.e. 2014, an allowance of 800 thousand was granted for the reconstruction of the chapel's masonry, including staircases. Crowns. By restoring the remaining northern part of the crypt casing from the block masonry and two spindle staircases, including the repair of two wooden windows, the first stage of the project would be completed. According to the owner's information, the costs to complete the restoration of the monument are estimated at 11 million. Crowns. In an ideal condition with a prerequisite for the distribution of repairs up to four years, including this year's restoration of the monument should be completed in 2017. Unfortunately, ten original Baroque statues were stolen on 9 June 2001, with an estimated damage of 300 thousand. Crowns. The village would like to make copies of the statues and place them in the original places. Unfortunately, however, there is no documentation of these sculptures and so far the intention could not be implemented. Of course, it is our concern to maintain this unique Baroque memory in its best condition and in the future, and we are ready to continue to participate in its restoration, because I consider it really one of the priority events in this area of cemetery architecture from the Baroque era. Thank you for your concern and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u136	Thank you, Minister, and I ask the honourable Member - so yes, he will have an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u137	Thank you, Minister, for your response and for supporting the completion of repairs to this national cultural monument. I recently intervened with the new Minister for Regional Development, who promised that European funds would also be some money to repair cultural monuments. So I think that if the second stage were to be completed or actually complete the whole repair before 2017, it would certainly save what you were talking about, which means that the masonry gradually airs and even the cost of repairs is increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u138	Thank you. I wonder if the Minister will still respond. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u139	Thank you and thank you for this impulse. I spoke with Minister Šlechtová and her predecessor, Commissioner Jourová today about the possibilities of drawing European funds for the restoration of the conservation fund and both assured me by their interest and support. So I firmly believe that we will be able to make the most of the funds that will be made available to restore the conservation fund, to invest, and of course we will not forget the Baroque cemetery in Střílky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u140	Thank you and I note that we have exhausted the oral questioning for today, and for this reason I am terminating the oral questioning. Mr Kalousek has applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the degree of presence, or rather the absence of government members in today's interventions and the level of response to us, is about as disparaging as the President of the Republic's behaviour on October 28th. There's not much we can do about the President's behavior, he's elected all people. To the government, we have our duty to the opposition. We must consult on how we will proceed towards this obvious contempt for the Government by the Chamber of Deputies. For this reason, I request a two-hour break for the TOP 09 meeting. And I'm afraid our frustration will be that we don't sleep out of it and that tomorrow will be quite problematic. Anyway, I'm asking for a two-hour break now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-009-133.u142	Okay, thank you. In that case, I must agree on what time we will continue the negotiations. [[A brief meeting with Mr Glass at the President's table.]] Since we agreed to work today until 7:00 p.m. and TOP 09 took a two-hour break, which means 7:08 p.m., I am interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning when we continue the program. Thank you, and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
