ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u1	1. Request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Ms Zuzana Kailová This item was dealt with at the 8th meeting on 15 May and was interrupted by resolution 282, pending discussion by the mandate and immune committee. The resolution of this committee has been distributed to you on the bench, and I am asking the chair of the mandate and immunity committee of Mrs Miroslava Němcová to report to us on the discussion of the request of the Police of the Czech Republic, the Regional Directorate of the Ústí Region, to give consent to the criminal prosecution of the Member. Madam President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, I would just like to brief you on the course of this police request on the ground of the mandate and immunity committee. After me, the rapporteurs will come forward to this point and provide you with more extensive information. I mean, about the process. On 23 April 2014, the President of the Chamber of Deputies received a request from the Police of the Czech Republic, the Regional Directorate of the Ústí Region, for expressing the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Ms Zuzana Kailová. I took over the original of the application together with a copy of the criminal file the following day and on the same day the members of the committee were informed of the receipt of the request and the possibility of getting acquainted with a copy of the criminal file. The discussion of the police's extradition request was initiated by the Committee on 29 April 2014, the hearing on the matter was suspended due to the preparation of the intelligence reports and also because we invited Ms Zuzana Kailová to the committee's meeting, as it is customary. [[14.30 hours]] In accordance with Article 12 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Court of Justice of the European Union may, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, decide to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies were included in the 8th session of the Chamber of Deputies, the hearing, as the President said on 15 May, was suspended by the resolution, adjourned until the hearing by the Committee by the mandate and immune. On 13 May 2014, our meeting continued with the participation of Mrs Zuzana Kailová and her legal representative. They were allowed to comment personally on the police's request. For the purposes of determining whether the conditions for prosecution are laid down, a personal participation of the representatives of the police authorities, who delivered their views at the 14th meeting of the committee held on 22 May of this year, has also been requested under the Committee's resolution. That's all I wanted to tell you about the process itself. The mandate and immunity committee closed its negotiations today when we met at the meeting. As has been said, you have the resolution put on the bench, and it is now in the Chamber of Deputies to decide on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I ask the rapporteur of Mr Matěj Fichtner's mandate and immunity committee to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Good afternoon, everyone. Briefly. Police department Police of the Czech Republic, Regional Directorate of the Ústí Region, Regional Department of Ústí nad Labem, Department of Economic Crime, requested by letter the reference number, etc., of 23. 4. The Chamber of Deputies on the extradition of a Bachelor's Member Zuzana Kailová to criminal prosecution for criminal offences in breach of the obligation to manage foreign property pursuant to § 220 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the Criminal Code, on the misuse of the authority of an official body pursuant to § 329 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Criminal Code, with a copy of the criminal file attached to the application, as has already been said here. What's going on? In short, Mr Kailová's police authority blames herself that during 2011, in the position of councillor of the statutory city of Ústí nad Labem, together with the accused Mr.Vít Mandík, Mayor of the statutory city of Ústí nad Labem, she awarded a public contract, the purpose of which was to secure the "Welcome of the citizens' event, in a way that, in the opinion of the police authority, contradicts the requirement of economics, because the amount of 5.2 million including VAT, that is the price of the contract in question, according to the police authority, it was not necessary to incur the contract at all because it was unnecessary when part of the performance relating to the mediation of the "Welcome of the citizens' event was not necessary at all, and the remaining part of the performance relating to organizational security could be provided by its employees and by its own forces with minimum financial resources. In doing so, Ms Kailová and Ms Kailová should have committed infringement of the provisions of Section 38 of the Municipalities Act, which states that the property of the municipality must be used efficiently and economically and in accordance with its interests and tasks, thereby causing the city considerable damage within the meaning of § 138 para. 1 of the Criminal Code. As far as the mandate and immune committee are concerned, they have discussed this request at several meetings, which has already been said. Members of the mandate and immunity committee have studied the submitted application and file documentation. Subsequently, the mandate and immunity committee invited Commissioner Zuzana Kailová, who informed the committee of further information on the matter, to the meeting, invited a representative of the police authority at which the criminal proceedings were conducted. He also provided some information. The mandate and immunity committee concluded today when it adopted Resolution 66 by which it proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to decide on the motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution is on everyone's desk. As regards the opinion of the mandate and immunity committee itself, in contrast to the previous extradition requests that were here, this means, for example, the police's request for Bohuslav Svoboda's extradition for prosecution or Bohuslav Schwarz's case, so the mandate and immune committee came to an opinion there. He has not adopted any such resolution in this case, which means he has neither recommended nor recommended that the Chamber of Deputies be delivered. So much in general as regards the intelligence role of the mandate and immune committee. I will do this again with subjective evaluation, but I would not like to mix the two roles, so much for the rapporteur's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, and I am registering your application for a general debate, which I hereby open and give the floor to the first one registered by Mrs Jana Černochová. Mr. František Laudát will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think it might be useful if Mrs Kailová's speech had preceded our applications for a detailed debate, because it was customary that when one of her colleagues stood in this role, he had previously given his opinion to the House. I wouldn't postpone my performance until after Mrs. Kailová's performance, if possible. I know the rules of procedure are what they are, but they used to be a habit in the past. So if I can refer to any customary law in this House, I would be at this moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u7	Yes. I am, of course, following the Rules of Procedure and giving the floor as the individual requests for a speech are. However, if Mrs Kailová wishes to speak, and if MEPs, Mrs Černochová and Mr Laudát and Mrs Benešová and Mr Fichtner agree, I would give the first word to Mrs Kailová. I see no objection here to this procedure, so Mrs Kailová has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, I have come to the Chamber of Deputies to work and take stock of my ten years of experience in community policy. I have come to defend the interests of families with children, seniors and citizens in particular, not just of our region. That is why I am very sorry that we have to deal with this case today. Let me sum up the important facts, in my opinion. The "Welcome to the Municipalities" project was the most successful project for families with children in the modern history of the city and has been going on since 2008. He was conceived as a big social event, as a thank you to young families who decided to start a family and raise children in Ústí nad Labem. Each first-born baby also received a five-thousand-dollar check. Since 2008, we have welcomed 2300 children, and cultural events have been attended by 10,000 family members in that period. In connection with the "Welcome of citizens" event, a standard approval process took place at the City Council of Ústí nad Labem. The financial framework of the action was approved annually by the Council in its budget. Subsequently, there was an open sublime tender. All the materials relating to the approval of the "Welcome to the Municipalities" framework contract have been checked by the Legal Department, including the material that has been approved by the City Council. This material was signed by the Head of the relevant department in charge of the action, the Secretary of the Office and the already mentioned Head of the Legal Department. The winning project was approved by ten councillors present, i.e. representatives not only of social democracy but also of other political parties. For the sake of completeness, I also state that the project has been implemented since 2008, approved annually by the Council, signed by former Mayor Kubata for the ODS and the annual costs of the project were higher than for the framework contract, which is now subject to criminal proceedings. And now, let me make a few thoughts that come to mind in connection with this absurd accusation. Please, is it okay that I learned about the police's request for my extradition from the lady at the store where I was shopping with my two-year-old son? Is it okay that the other people who contacted me were journalists with the fact that the Police of the Czech Republic published a press release with my full name and the names of my colleagues and placed it on their website? She said it was in the public interest, even before she made the request to the President of the House. It is also striking that the criminal proceedings in this case, which the police have been saving since February 2013, come now, five months before the municipal elections, and concerns only the three highest representatives of the city for social democracy. Me, the mayor and the mayor of the district. Only three councillors for the ČSSD, although the project was approved by ten councillors present, where the councillors for the ODS and for the association of athletes sat on the town council at the time. [[14.40 hours]] I must also say here that the criminal complaint has been filed by a regional representative who is not hiding the ambition to succeed in the upcoming municipal elections. And all the more alarming is that the charges are based on the claims of a former official who no longer works at the City Council after the reorganization of the office. Apparently, what was meant to be succeeded. The best event for families with children appreciated by parents and grandparents was demolished not only by my colleagues, but also by me and my family, who suffer greatly. Unfortunately, the criminal announcement is becoming the cheapest form of election campaign, the cheapest way to destroy political competitors. Finally, allow me to make a minor appeal to you, fellow politicians. Any political decision that we have made can be viewed by the police subjectively as incorrect and treated as criminal behaviour. The police should not, not only in my opinion, interfere with the democratic principles of our decisions. honourable Members, I respect this Chamber of Deputies, and I will therefore respect your decision with humility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Mrs Jana Černochová now has the floor, Mr Laudát will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u10	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. My performance, even if it's short, will be a little personal. Perhaps I should begin by saying that as a person who is a believer, I am baptized, so I understand the welcome of the citizens as something that was an alternative in the previous regime, and I understand that today parents who want their child to be accepted into the community in some way choose this form, but that does not change the fact that we also welcome it in Prague 2 because the public wants it this way. I think it may be a mistake that the proposal to issue a Member and my colleague Bohuslav Svoboda was here three months ago. Because the atmosphere in this country, the atmosphere in our justice system, the atmosphere in the state's attorney's office in the police department was a little different than it is now. And I believe that many of you would judge in the same way as I consider the case of Mrs Kailová, the case of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, and that this House would not allow Mr Bohuslav Svoboda to be released. You know, I'm in communal politics as well as a colleague. Kailová also for many years, eight years I was deputy mayor, eight years I was mayor of the Prague 2 district, and in the election week before the elections to the European Parliament, we became so special. I'll share it with you. At eight o'clock in the morning of May 20, my colleague, who was in the parliamentary term, last term, councilman of the city district, called me that she had been charged with four other colleagues. I note that the charge would probably have been brought to me if I hadn't been on vacation in June 2009, and I would have been standing by Zuzana Kailová's side today, although she probably wasn't, but that is another continuation of this story. At eight o'clock in the morning of 20 May, five former city councillors of Prague 2 were charged with the case of a competition for heat and hot water in 2009. Who don't remember what year it is - it's 2014. Time passed, the newspapers took over this wonderful information on all possible servers and printed editions, and what happened next? On Friday, the day the polling rooms opened on May 23rd at 2:00 p.m., a lawyer called, hired by my colleagues to represent them, and said that he had learned that the investigator with whom he had an appointment for the next week had called his associate and that the charges had been dropped, but that he did not have it supported in writing, because it hadn't come into his data box yet. Well, my colleagues and their attorney were waiting until Monday. On Monday, after the election, it was actually delivered to the data box that the charges against five former colleagues, my colleagues from the council of the city section were lifted. And when I looked at the date on which the D.A. canceled this charge, please the date was May 21st. So they've been charged for less than 24 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, does this chase on municipal politics seem normal to you? We want to participate as Members of the legislature by voting today and some other time for people who fly for years in municipal politics, who are going through elections, the public can be the only one to evaluate whether or not they have stolen. It's people who have something behind them, who, whether it's the welcome of the citizens, or preventing it from drowning or the hot water from flowing in the winter months, each of us is getting to the edge of what's still going on, and it's moved somewhere in the last two years that we probably didn't want any of us to move on. I am asking you at this moment, even though I am from an opposition party other than my colleague, that we should take this as a precedent for other cases in this House if Zuzana Kailová is not issued today. And they most certainly will be. There's a local election coming up, so I don't have to say what we're all thinking back here in the head. There are a number of local politicians, whether past, present, possibly future. Please keep what I'm telling you today with my experience in mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u11	Mr Laudát, Mrs Marie Benešová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already heard the information here, the report of the mandate and immunity committee, that he has not agreed, virtually. There is no resolution from him. I don't know whether the vote ended with a tie or a vote didn't take place. Either way, the mandate and immune committee did not give us a clear recommendation. I will be much more resolute in this, and I say no to Mrs Kailová's categorical extradition. First of all, I think the criminalization of local politicians has gone too far. I think that's what voters are for to decide whether or not the money is being dealt with by the property of the community's elected representatives. I think that in a number of cases, there are still mechanisms other than simple economic calculations. And I would have serious doubts about that, because today you can actually buy an expert and write you anything. I don't think the police are here to do anything besides super-serious economic analysis and then criminalize people. That's one of the reasons. I think, and it is a matter for the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior to actually look down on whether criminal proceedings or actions relating to this have been prematurely initiated in our country in recent years. It was obviously some kind of social pressure. But who's creating the social pressure? Media, disgruntled people who, instead of going into the free competition of individuals or political parties, want to mentor - I am not talking about those who really have a fair need to improve and push to improve conditions - and fear their own competitions and then relativize everything. [[14.50 hours]] It doesn't just destroy the fates of particular people, their families. It is indeed "excellent" when you enter the House and see the first point on the board: the extradition of Mrs Kailová for prosecution. How do you think that lady must be? And I just don't think there's any way I'm gonna be involved in this. And it's already hurting our country. If someone with risky projects who can have an overlap in the public sphere and even doesn't have to, please, who will judge? Police? Whether this is a fraud, a violation of the law in the jungle, which we have done for ourselves, is it dictated to us? So no one in this country today can declare responsible that they honor and understand the laws of this country. That means another reason for me. And really people who want to take risks, so they're not going to invest in our country, they're not going to do business here because they're afraid. Let this also be a warning to those who think they will solve everything, corruption in society, etc., property statements that, for example, tax evasion will automatically be initiated as a deliberate crime, and so on and so forth. It's about the whole convention of laws. In our country, I think the atmosphere for free entrepreneurship, for functioning, common, courageous and fair is getting worse. We're not gonna set society up with tough laws. That's not freedom anymore, that's totalitarian. We're not gonna fix the company. She either has morals or she doesn't. We can put some boundaries, but please, we're having a public welcome here today, there might be some dog walk tomorrow that somebody embezzled the bag holder and so on and so forth. Looks to me like we're really getting to Absurdistán. Therefore, what I started - in this case I say categorical no and I call you to the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Mrs Benešová has the floor. It will be followed by Mr Fichtner, who is also the rapporteur for this press. Since I have more applications from my seat, I just point out that Mr Zavadil will then be Mr Blažek and then Mr Blažek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u14	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my Lord. Originally, I didn't want to perform, because I still feel for the D.A., because I've worked there almost my whole life. But I'm asking myself where the D.A. is going today. So do I... and I have to give the truth to the opposition MPs as well. I have read the resolution, and I have seen a lot of resolutions in my professional life under § 160, but I have clearly called this 'literary diarrhea'. Forgive my expressive expression, but otherwise I cannot name it, and I believe that if a superior prosecutor has a complaint to review, reason must cancel the resolution. Our previous teachers have always taught us: If criminal prosecution is initiated, there must be at least 80% of the probability that the crime has occurred, a certain person has committed it and in what way. There's no such thing as a resolution here, no specifics of this type at all, and there's a sense of purpose out of his shoes. So I don't like it at all, either, and I call it selective justice, and unfortunately this expression has already started spreading not only here in Prague, but I have heard it in different regions. I don't want selective justice to work with us. I've always held the principle of falling to whom, and I believe we're going to get back to the phase where it's going to fall the way it's supposed to. I'm not sure - I've always wondered who's to blame, let them answer, tell the police what they know, and let them defend themselves. But this is the number one time when real purposefulness right here is felt. In this situation, I will not vote in favour of Mrs Kailová's extradition because I think that this must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u15	Mr Fichtner is now signed in, Mr Zavadil will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will now come forward with my opinion on this matter. Again, I am separating the role of rapporteur and speaker in this debate. So, as far as the statement of accusations is concerned, the charge is more or less interesting in the sense that it is aimed not at violating the law in the course of the award of a public contract, namely binding procurement rules, resulting in damage to the public corporation in question, but on the very intention of the public contract to award certain services, supplies or works on the market to demand and conclude a contract for which they are subject. The violation of the law as a necessary sign of a criminal offence is introduced here from a breach of the principle of economy enshrined in Section 38 of the Municipalities Act and not from a breach of any provision of the Public Procurement Act, or from proof of corruption in this case. In the opinion of the police authority and apparently the prosecutor, therefore, the representative of the municipality with the appropriate authority, usually the mayor or the councilman, may commit an offence of infringement in the management of foreign property by not only failing to comply with binding procurement rules, but only by awarding a contract at all. Even if the procurement procedure itself does not have to show any legal defects. That's how the charges are based, and in the case of Ms. Kailová, potential charges. In principle, such an approach permits the criminalisation of an inefficient decision made by a representative of the public administration. In the same way, whether it is the mayor of the municipality, the minister or the chief official, because each of them is legally required to dispose of public property economically. Thus, the decision itself may have criminal consequences for the person concerned without having to be a corruption or at least a breach of the procedural rules governing the award of a public contract. In this case, the law enforcement authorities blame the councillor of Ústí nad Labem only that they were to award the contract economically. It is a pity, because, of course, there are a lot of public procurement offences, of course, there are logical offers of some of the corruption crimes, there is a violation of competition rules, I think it is Section 241 alinea second paragraph 2 of the Criminal Code. However, in this case, the charge is very general. The police authority, one might say, has made the work easier because it does not have to examine the course of the procurement procedure at all, it does not have to examine various economic links, financial flows. It only examines whether or not the decision met the criterion of economy. Unfortunately, this approach of the entire criminal proceedings is coming to the level of legal disputation, which we will hardly be able to solve here. Only the court has to deal with this. So I would recommend, given that whether the House decides to issue or not to issue Mrs. Kailová for criminal prosecution, the entire case will still come to trial. Because there are other charges, the accused mayor Mandík is there, so I'm sure it'll come to trial. [[15.00 hours]] It'll be interesting to watch the court stand up to it. Because if the court finds that the crime has been committed, that means that our laws, or that criminal law, are such that the conduct we are discussing here is a criminal offence. This means that all the arguments that have been made here fall, and then we should talk about not how criminal law is applied here, but how this criminal law of substance is built at all. However, this debate should be conducted more in the direction that corresponds to what immunity is set up for, what it exists for. Immunity is designed to protect the legislative body against excesses by power executives by exerting power in some way to influence the legislative body and its functioning. From our point of view, this is not the case. Of course, we can have a debate on criminal proceedings within the meaning of the arguments that I have put forward here, whether it was not a purpose, whether the decision to award the contract was or was not inefficient, if it was inefficient, whether it was indeed a criminal offence or not. However, the nature of the institute of immunity and the extradition of a Member to prosecute is whether this charge or potential charge affects or does not affect the execution of the Member's mandate. In our opinion, it doesn't. On the one hand, the offence concerns the work of Ms Kailová on the Board of the statutory city of Ústí nad Labem and, on the other hand, how the accusation or potential influence is designed, so we believe that she simply does not interfere with the exercise of the mandate of the Member. For the reasons that I have mentioned here, therefore, the ANO parliamentary club will vote in favour of the consent to the prosecution of Ms Zuzana Kailová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. I now have one factual remark from Mr Stupčuk. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I still haven't been clear as to what's behind the unlawfulness. And if this unlawfulness is imported only from an abstract provision in the municipal law, about the regions, that we should proceed economically and effectively in the management of municipal property, then there cannot be a breach of this provision without committing any unlawfulness in connection with this obligation. I just want to make the argument ad absurdum. I'm a municipal politician. On Saturday we open a public swimming pool in Petynce and decided as elected authorities that we would renounce the entrance fee. That means those people are coming in for free, and unlike the future, we're not going to be collecting admission fees. Well, it's certainly not efficient and economical. But I'm asking - is that against the law? Well, it's not illegal! So, in some way, the injustice does not exist automatically, in itself, in custody of these resolutions! [[Very loud speech.]] And I, through Mr President, would turn to you, members from the political side YES, to realise this crucial categorical difference. Because if there was a breach of duty, for example. legal, resulting from the Public Procurement Act, that is what stands in relation to the effectiveness and economy expressed as an obligation for municipal policies to manage in some way under the principle of efficiency and economy. Please, no legal standards have been introduced here. In my opinion, there is an extensive, excessive interpretation of criminal standards here, which we lawyers know is forbidden! You can't do that! So I'd like us to really distinguish that. For the sake of objectivity, I didn't even vote for the release of Mr. docent. Freedom, where there were some indications, considerations about the unlawfulness of the law on public procurement, but I think that this is the fundamental argument that we should be aware of at the moment. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too. Two more factual points. Mr Vondráček, with a factual remark and then Mr Laudát, also with a factual remark. So two minutes for Mr. Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'd like to start with a little less emotional, try to calm down the debate. Please note one fundamental difference. We're not dealing with guilt or innocence, committing a crime. We're dealing with extradition or extradition. I know it's tempting, especially if it's a legal education to think about it. I think I'll surprise you. I have a very similar opinion. I think the police haven't done their job well here, that the interpretation is really extensive, but that's not the subject of discussion. If I am one of the addressees of your speech, through Mr President, I must say - please note what we are discussing here. I've already stressed this in the extradition of Mr. former Mayor of Svoboda. We need a clear precedent in this matter, a clear ruling from the court that this is not a criminal offence. And that's not what we're gonna get. We need a clear signal from an independent court as to the legal opinion of an independent court. We're not a trial. And I've said it repeatedly. Let us remember that this Chamber of Deputies should also protect itself and its reputation. There are more co-conspirators. While the others will be prosecuted, they will somehow be involved in these criminal prosecutions, so thanks to their immunity, the MP will be relieved. Please look at trends abroad, how immunity is perceived. There are a number of states that don't even have our concept of immunity. It's to a certain extent a historical excess. That means I'd calm down the debate. I beg you, let's talk about extradition or not, whether this House's activity as a sovereign is threatened, as a legislature. Immunity is not an individual's privilege. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. I will read one apology, it is Mrs Dobešová's apology from 14.30 for work reasons. There. And now we have to deal with applications. There are factual points: Mr Laudát, then Mr Benda, then Mr Stanjura, Mr Stupčuk, then Vice-President Filip. All factual points. And then there's Mr... [[A deal off the mic.]] Very good, for debate. So now we'd deal with the facts. Mr Laudát has the floor and two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I am merely referring to what Mr Fichtner said here, that this has nothing to do with the performance of the mandate. Of course it does. Don't be mad at me, if anyone starts dragging a man for this kind of thing, the performance of his mandate is gonna suck. First of all. Two. As was not linked to the initiation of the prosecution with the execution of the mandate, e.g. Vlasta Parkanová? It's been a while. It ruined the lady's health, ruined her career. What do you mean it has nothing to do with anything? Of course it's connected. And please don't say that here again. And even if I took it on the human plane. So if you have this matter ahead of you, the public will remember what happened now, or what the police or prosecutor will do now, not that a notic will come out in five years, that nothing has happened. It's related.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr Benda, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was provoked by the speech of Vice-President Vondráček by not taking a stand here. No doubt we won't. But you new ones in the new movement may not have realized that the Constitution of the Czech Republic had changed. Criminal prosecution is not forever ruled out. Criminal proceedings may normally take place after the end of the mandate. It's the change this House has made in the last parliamentary term. And it is merely said - as long as you are carrying out your mandate, you are not being harassed by such senseless prosecutions. [[15.10 hours]] And I think it's right that we don't always look like... we don't replace the trial. We're not. We only replace whether this House has or should not be harassed by such criminal prosecutions. Criminal prosecution will be possible. If the other accused were to end in any way, Mrs Kailová will be prosecuted in three years when she is finished here. I'm sure it won't happen that way, of course. So let's not hide, please, for not deciding the court. We decide whether the person who is to vote here in this House for his constituents will be harassed for the next two years and perhaps at some point from this House being called upon to take urgent criminal action so that he cannot vote here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u25	Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u26	I would like to respond to the same speaker, Mr Vondráček, by your means, Mr President. He said here the words, "We need a final ruling from the court." Not me, maybe you. Then you contradicted each other. You said if we didn't give up our colleague, he wouldn't go to trial. And then you said there were other charges, and the poor guys would get to court. Well, either the trial's gonna happen or it's not gonna happen. We don't decide whether the trial will take place. You said yourself that the other charges might get into court. We heard a description of two cases today: Mrs Kailová and Mrs Černochová described the case from Prague 2. If they canceled in three weeks, not in one day, which I think is very strange that the charges will be dropped within 24 hours, at least it had its purpose in the election week, so we were discussing the extradition of Ms Jana Černochová. You would perform here with a clever sentence: "We're not a court, our club has decided that we'll just hand it over." Of course, the reputation of a person is at risk the moment we publish it. Voters, and I'm talking to them, they're saying, "I think there's something to it when the House released it. That's suspicious. If it wasn't all weird, the House wouldn't have released it." I'd like to ask the Home Secretary. I heard from Mrs Kailová that before it was delivered here and to her, it was posted on the website of the Police of the Czech Republic. I'd like the Home Secretary to investigate and report back to us. I would also like the Minister of Justice to investigate how it is possible that the charges are initiated and reported on Tuesday and that they are cancelled on Wednesday. It's not normal! Those people are being mediated, they're all gonna read about their names, and someone's gonna cancel it in 24 hours, maybe the same guy who signed the charges the day before. That doesn't seem normal to me. I would ask the members of the government not to forget to inform the House of the results of their investigations. If it doesn't, we'll interpel, we'll ask for a written answer. It's not normal what's going on here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Stupčuk, I would like to inform you, in response to your speech, that, as has also been communicated in the media, I have turned to Mr Police President and I have an answer at my disposal, so I will make it available to Members of the Chamber of Deputies, so that everyone can see how the Police President has responded to my initiative on this matter. Mr Stupčuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be among my previous speakers. If I understand them correctly, there's something going on here, not that it's not happening. We make decisions. And in my opinion, we decide what the next legitimacy of the Member's mandate will be. That's what we decide. Because, as correctly mentioned, if we had decided not to publish today, this does not mean that criminal proceedings can be carried out after the end of the mandate. And that's a question that may concern all of us. After all, legitimacy lies in how I can be proud or proud to represent the people of my electorate. So, of course, if there's a criminal trial against me here, it's a handicap for me like crazy! In a social climate where there is a presumption of guilt against the constitutionally enshrined presumption of innocence, I think we should think damn well about whether a police request is well enough to justify the facts in the evidence to prove that the action has been done and that it is fulfilling the true nature of the crime! I am of the opinion that I have had the opportunity to speak with my colleagues on the constitutional committee that the police request is not sufficient either quantitatively or qualitatively. And at this point, I dare say it's even premature! Let them prove it and ask for it next time, sometime in the future, if they gather sufficient evidence, but at this moment I say again that they are not here on the table! And to believe and hope in the caselaw, in some precedent. Friends, that's at least five or seven years old, even at the Supreme Court criminal college, they are often unable to agree. Of course, justice has its relative value expressed at a time when you can do it. What good is it to me when I'm being dehonested today, and I'm only five, seven, ten years from now, I'm gonna get an apology when somebody's gonna make it public somewhere and it has no more effects to heal the difamation I had to undergo. So please think not populistly, but wisely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u29	Now, with a point of fact, Vice-President Filip. Mr Vondráček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, briefly. I ask my colleagues and my colleague when she talks about the Institute of Immunity so that it does not interfere by being a historic advantage. Either the principle of power division applies or it doesn't. And if the principle of power applies, then the principle of immunity must apply! So please stay out of this and don't seduce your inability to decide on trial!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mr Vondráček, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. Once again, I may try to make a calm argument in vain. First of all, a colleague of Stanjura. You seem to be referring to the Czech proverb "there is a bit of truth on every racket." That's a very nasty saying, by the way, I never liked him. Of course, it is possible that it applies to us and is attached to everyone, but this is not an argument in this discussion. Is it okay for the other co-conspirators to be guinea pigs that could be handled in any way possible, and who is a Member, so it doesn't concern, he is simply excluded, is he privileged? I just don't agree with this. With all due respect to Mr Filip, I simply view immunity differently philosophically and doctrinally. There are just countries where they don't know that concept at all. Where they simply hope to be independent police, an independent judicial system and fully respect it. And if a judge decides something, that is true, and that is true for a Member, and a Member can easily sit down in England, even if he is a Member, and maybe he sits down on purpose, because it is his political protest against some senseless tax. And after five weeks of prison, he'll return to the House as a hero. [[Cheer up in the left side of the hall.]] This is not an example for us, I rather give it for amusement. But this is simply about the principle of immunity. I fully respect the principle of indemnity, any speech made on this land cannot be affected, but I have my particular personal opinion on immunity from criminal law as far as we Members are concerned in general in society. And I think it's more bad for us now than good for us. I'm sorry, I don't think I'm a populist. It's my legal opinion. I have already said once that with the police procedure, because I am a member of the mandate and immune committee, I also have serious reservations about how the application was formulated and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u33	Thank you for keeping time. According to my records, that was the last point of fact. So we will return to the duly registered and Mr Zavadil has the floor, followed by Mr Blažek and then Mr Komárek. Only to explain that only one name shines on the board, but there are three logged ins. It's because some report from the scene. Just to be clear, and so that we all know where we are in the debate, I would ask you to report in writing to the table on the left, because then it is clear how much longer a debate awaits us, but, of course, I do not want to restrict your right to report from the point of view. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u34	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, when we decided three months ago to issue or not to publish our colleague Bohuslav Svoboda, I voted in principle in favour of non-release. First remark. Second point. What kind of environment do we put Members into, but not just Members, in what environment do ordinary people get into? Is that a normal environment? Is there law enforcement here? Very bad. Justice is spoken of in such a way that I don't even want to publish it here. Same thing about the police. So what kind of environment do we want to put people from this House who have notabene's justification for their activities, now I will not say criminal as it was called here. I liked that very much - literary diarrhea. We should think about this if we really do have Mirnix dirnix people mainly from the Chamber of Deputies who have their mandate in this environment that currently exists in our country. And what has been said here by my previous speaker, through Mr President, trends abroad - please, let us not bring that here! While he returns to England after five years as a hero, here he is a wreck. No, after five days. Sorry. So it's about the environment again. So if we let all this stuff get mediated, these people would get in the middle of their interest, so the media would sort of take their breath away, et cetera. etc., so I think that if it is not clear what has been said here by fellow Benešová, as has been said, 80 percent of the assumptions that the crime has been committed, if this is not clear, then I think that we should not issue anyone from this Chamber of Deputies on the basis of such stupid and banal mistakes that may have been made in the investigation of the Police of the Czech Republic. I will, of course, vote against extradition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u35	Mr Blažek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. It's been said a lot. I'm just saying, in addition, that we don't decide that a person will escape the police and the prosecutor's office forever from prosecution. We are only voting that this person will not be released for criminal prosecution for some time. And, you know, he's one aspect that's important. If I were convinced that there was some evidence that couldn't be done in, like, two in three years, when this House period was over - scent marks, or some witness when he was dying there and he just wouldn't be able to go to trial after that, then maybe I'd go to the argument that there was a need to be published. But it still needs to be realized that it doesn't just have a legal dimension, it has a political dimension, and let's not be ashamed of that! The work of a Member affects the lives of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people, and now I ask you: Can a Member who is criminally prosecuted for something that has nothing to do with it, even if it has nothing to do with the negotiations in this House, which is being pursued by the media in every interview he receives, in every paper he receives, can he really properly perform this function? The criminal prosecution - whether it goes on or not - will certainly not result in such a Member being able to carry out his mandate. I don't want to talk about any guilt here at all, it's just gonna be a court decision one day, but I think it's wrong to give up on this matter to any of us, because then he's not able to carry out his mandate normally. He's not capable. And who has enjoyed a little bit, and there are a lot of colleagues who still know it only abstractly, what is a media hunt, so I guarantee you, in this situation, you are not able to perform the work of a Member in a quality manner. The police and the D.A. can wait, nothing will happen, and then they can make decisions in a normal criminal trial with a normal person called our colleague. So I certainly can't be for extradition, and I think the reasons are completely rational, they're impersonal, and I don't care what political party that person is in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u37	Yes. Mr Komárek has the floor now, and after him is the chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Vondráček has already started this, but I would like to point out here that in the statements of most of my previous speakers, there is a logical contradiction. First of all, many, and I would say that most of us went to this House with the intention of supporting a law that limits the parliamentary immunity. I don't think anything's changed since then. I'm sure the justice work hasn't gotten any worse here, the police work hasn't gotten worse. This argument is therefore pointless. Two. Of course, I am on the side of all those who are being bullied or unjustly prosecuted by the police, and although a legal layman, I am leaning toward the fact that this is the situation of colleagues that we have already published, and yet we have published them. I refer to the fact that this is the situation of Mrs Kailová, whose publication we are now deciding on. But be careful. All that has been said here, how will it be able to carry out its work, that it will be dragged by the media, that it will be blamed by some evil people, and I must say evil people who do not distinguish the accusations and the guilt of her family - are not in the same situation other colleagues from the city and municipal authorities, representatives? We don't want to be double-class people here. It's exactly the same battle, let's say the battle for the state to work, the battle against injustice, that is, the honest ones, and in that battle, we send one person, that is, the mayor and the representative, completely light, even without ring armor, and the other, the MP, in a completely comfortable armor. It's just completely unfair. And that's why we want to, and I think it's right to limit immunity and at the same time improve the work of justice and the police. I fully agree with what Mr Stanjura said, that we should not only get to know the position of the police president, but it is really time to ask the relevant ministers, even though they are from a coalition, of which I am a loyal member, what they are doing against what they have done to make the police and justice work better, because both have committed themselves to it. So let's make a logical distinction between two things. For one thing, the fact that we don't want immunity, at least most of us, I admit it - I don't want it for myself, I don't want it for anyone else in the legislature, because it seems unfair to me to fellow citizens to have this privilege. It just seems unfair to me. That's all. And society is supposed to be fair. So I don't want immunity and at the same time I want to have a functioning, good, good quality and fair police and justice. But there's no connection. On the one hand, please, we are on the agenda for this meeting, if I am not mistaken, the law that limits the immunity, I would say that in a reasonable way, even if it is not perfect, let us talk about it and accept it or accept a similar proposal, on the other hand, let us try as this House, and it is also our duty to exert reasonable and effective pressure on the authorities of the state, so that the work of police and justice is improved so that not only the Members but also the normal people do not have to fear it. We don't want normal people to be persecuted by unfair accusations and engulfed because it bothers everyone. The work of a Member is important, but the work of a doctor is also important. I'm sorry. And the prosecution is interfering with the doctor's work. So, please, let's distinguish, limit immunity, and on the other hand, let's make every effort to make the police and the justices work the way they're supposed to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u39	I apologise to Mr Kalousek, but the speech by Mr Komárek triggered another avalanche of factual remarks. They will act in order: Mr Svoboda, Member Novotný, Member Stanjura and Member Sklenák - all factual remarks. The first, then, is Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u40	Have a good noon, all of you. It is difficult for me to perform here, but I would like to say to Mr Komárek that I am not only a Member, but also a doctor, so I know both the two options. I am the one who has already done this, and I can tell you that the work of a Member will affect your decision in a fundamental way. No interview with me is made by any journalist other than that he launches: you are charged and even published by the House. That's what everyone thinks is a crucial decision. I myself voted in favour of my extradition, but I fundamentally reject the fact that someone should issue as a political programme. It's just not possible! The law applies and says we have to make a decision, not that we know it in advance! [[A round of applause for Members of the ODS and the ČSSD.]] [[15.30 hours]] I'm just telling you all that you know ahead of time, you're gonna damage every single one of you in a horrible way. [[Sponsors of approval in the part of the hall.]] He doesn't do anything but answer the question of why you were released. What am I supposed to say? That it's their election program? In any case, today I will vote against the extradition of our colleague precisely for these reasons that I consider it a completely scandalous wrong political decision in advance, that I will not abide by the law and that I will regard immunity as bad and will always issue. I can't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u41	Mr Novotný has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to one sentence from the speech by my colleague Komárek concerning whether the work of the police has deteriorated in any way recently. I'll surprise you. I have a clue that I do. I know a number of cases where police members of municipal councils are treated by ingers directly into the fundamental, inalienable rights of self-government and tries to enter into their interpretations, completely innovative, into what self-government can and cannot do. I experienced the most flagrant example about 14 days ago, when I was - I point out as a witness and the case does not concern me at all - called for interrogation in a case, the essence of which is that the self-government of the city I once led had an expert opinion drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, not overpriced, not bad with its contents, but the policeman and the state's attorney concluded that the government didn't need that expert opinion. If you're wondering why, it's because there was already a policeman who came out differently. That's why the council members and city council are repeatedly interrogating, because the elementary interpellation of what the government is about has completely collapsed, and the policeman thinks he can interfere with those completely inalienable rights. That's why it's as important to me as the police's request is written. I even think about this case, but if it isn't properly formulated, if the interpretation is really on the water and it isn't supported, I can't vote for the issue, even if I think about the individual case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u43	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for ODS.]] I beg another Mr ODS President, Mr Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. My colleague Martin Novotný spoke of Mr Komárek's comment or rhetorical question whether we think the police work has deteriorated. He asked the same question in the same sentence whether we think the work of justice has deteriorated. Then I will answer you with the mouth of your deputy, the former deputy at the Ministry of Justice. This is your guy who gives interviews and who says "dark circles in justice conspired against me, pissed against me, created an environment that I had to leave the Justice Department" Then the answer to your question must be "yes, worse," when your nominated deputy says so. We're not saying it. So ask at home, in your movement, the ministry against which the supposed dark forces in justice advance, whether the situation in justice has improved, remained the same, or deteriorated. [[unintelligible]] I am glad that we have the same view that ministers have to give an explanation or some information and what they will do to improve it. It is a pity that you did not stand up for this at 14.10 when we voted on the proposal that the Prime Minister give us information about the situation in the Justice and Justice Department. That's nice of us to say it heroically at 3:30 in our speech. But you could have decided by voting whether this House would deal with this, whether the Prime Minister spoke to both the Minister and the former First Deputy Minister, to give us his opinion, his information - so you voted against it. Well, I don't know if you're up for it or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Please, with another actual chairman of the ČSSD club, Mr. Sklenák. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. I also applied in response to Mr Komárek's speech. He said, among other things, "I don't want any immunity for myself." I don't want immunity either, but I want immunity here for this legislature, because that's his point. It has already been said here - children in elementary school learn about the division of power, the division of power by legislative, judicial and executive, and the principle for democracy to work must be that one of those powers must not ingerate into the other. And it's thanks to that immunity that we can protect our power, and every time we decide here whether or not we're going to hand someone over, that's always the question we have to answer. Not if the man is guilty, but if the police are not interfering with our legislative power. And I can tell you, last time we were discussing the case of Professor Svoboda, I had the feeling, yes, that the moment had come, that this was the moment when we shouldn't release him. I voted for his extradition then, and today I know I made a mistake. I'm not gonna make that mistake again today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. I now have six factual points, so please refer to Mr Komárek's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. Only that Mr Bohuslav Svoboda has somewhat distorted my statement. I respect him very much. I'm not for publishing as such. I am in favour of limiting immunity to speeches - to political speeches. That's a very important difference. Mr Stanjur. I think that there is no need for a report on justice as such, but what we are talking about here means whether the police and possibly some prosecutors do not exceed their powers. That's all. And I would like to ask Mr Sklenák through Madam President, and I do not know now whether he knows how many members of his club have signed up for asking for immunity restrictions, and whether he himself has done so. Maybe I signed off on it, and I'm still applying. I think it was a large part of the members of the social democracy club who also signed up for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and next time, please turn to your colleagues through me. [[Comrade Komarek on the way from the microphone: I did it.]] Not now, but never mind. Thank you. Mr. Petr's microphone, please. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, this case will also have huge implications for self-government, for the mayors and for all those who work in self-government. Remember that today we're talking about the mayor or anyone who's going to tender either through a certain firm or some company he hires to do it, so he's not going to be punished for having the tender run all right, but for doing it through the firm, and he could have done it himself. Do you realize the paradox of this that we are discussing today? So it will certainly have an impact on the members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Radek Vondráček's microphone, please. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to react anymore, it's addictive, I'm sorry. I'm just going to my colleague Blažek and then my colleague Svoboda. There was a term here as a media hunt. But, fellow Members, through Madam President, do you not think that by not publishing, we would change anything about this? Unfortunately, we have the media we have, and whether we publish or not, the media hunt could happen. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Only at the beginning will the question be otherwise formulated, it will be: Although you were not issued, but you were charged. So, unfortunately, that's not gonna help us. I agree with most speakers. I'm not so emotionally involved in this that I don't think it's objective. [[15.40 hours]] The conclusion of all this is that it is necessary to cultivate Czech justice, cultivate police, cultivate power executives. I don't know if not releasing an MP is the right instrument and if it will help this House. I would still argue for my person that it is not, therefore, that I am trying to follow the political agenda. He is my personal opinion that the immunity today, in the position in which this state is located, should be limited only to indemnity. That, I hope, is about all I have to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Bronislav Schwarz's microphone, please. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u54	Hello, fellow Members, Madam President, thank you for encouraging the Minister, he encouraged me to speak. I would like to see - is Mrs Kailová here? Is he sitting there somewhere? There she is. You know, I'm the second to speak from practice. I'm sorry, don't be offended, but Professor Svoboda and I, we're speaking from practice. Everything that's fallen here always pays a little bit. I don't even have those things sorted out to this day. I'm released for the second time in my case where you released me, but I had to be issued for the number of police officers waiting for it, because I did a real thing that had to do with police work nine years ago. It's been dragging me the whole time. I'm waiting for the Regional Court to decide what's gonna happen. I'm not ashamed to tell you here. Do you think I work well as an MP? Do you think today I would comment on the work of the courts when I'm waiting for the court to decide my appeal? Everyone think about what I'm saying. Then I'd like to go on. I'm sorry about the lady, because I think I know what she's going through. I'm not dealing with her guilt. But you know what's sad? And I'm talking to everyone. Sadly, the work of the police is always being dealt with, Minister, and the work of justice when it comes to the extradition of Members. And before that, don't be mad, even the dog won't bark. There's a regional election about me, a regional election, I've been through it, I've run like a police chief, no one's ever dealt with it, I've been talked about. So I ask all of you who are sitting here how you attacked the Minister so that the senseless 60s - sorry, the resolution on the initiation of a prosecution is called - is no longer Sunday for the police to influence the operation of Members with pointless tell-tales possible, when something that MP doesn't like, goes against the police, doesn't want to add money to them. This could all happen. I just want to say, the lady's in bad shape. Me, too, all the time. It's always with me, and when someone's mouthy or something, they say it -- he's been prosecuted. I've seen this place as the chairman of the committee. Right away, one of my colleagues just said he couldn't--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u55	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u56	I know, two minutes. I won't keep you. I just want you to think about it. It's about the individual person. I don't want to talk about extradition. Everyone has an opinion about it, but it's really about society, working. Let's not always hunt for something until we find out it is. We all know it's not working well. I'm a witness, the professor's been there, too. Ask us how it feels, how good it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u57	Mr Ivan Pilný is signed up with another de facto. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u58	Good afternoon, Madam President, dear colleagues. In this House, it is often customary to mix pears with apples, and today we added plums. We are talking about limiting the immunity of Members, and it is definitely a debate that makes sense. We're talking about police work and court work. It's a discussion that makes sense. And this point has been called a request for consent to Ms. Kailová's criminal prosecution for an hour and a half. It is quite obvious that the decision of this Chamber of Deputies will affect her professional personal life. And I just want to say that I will vote according to my conscience and my parliamentary pledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Gabal's microphone, please, with his point of view. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. Madam President, by your means to a colleague, Komárek. I was determined to vote in favour. You convinced me that I would vote against extradition. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] There are two reasons. First, it is your deep ignorance of the history of parliamentaryism and the sense of why this congregation is equipped with immunity. Secondly, because I'm sitting on the Opencard committee, the more I listen to it, the more I have to tell you that I'm glad we have the immunity, and I'm gonna insist on keeping it, and there's no way I'm gonna support narrowing it down. I'm gonna be begging my colleagues from the club to support me, because only when you get to the risk limit will you understand the meaning of immunity for the exercise of your legislative obligations. It's not a political program. You argue doctrinally, without knowledge of history. Read a little something and start doing something to get to the edge, and then you'll understand why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mr Stanjura's speaker's counter, please. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u62	Thank you in two minutes. I voted for Mr Schwarz by your means - I also voted against his extradition because I do not judge those cases according to the political jurisdiction of those whom the police want to prosecute and ask for their extradition. But I applied to the microphone because if I really don't like something, the phrase "the situation is what it is, we all know it," "the law is what it is, we all know it." And a colleague just said, "Medias are what they are, we all know it." Unlike you, your President is an important owner in the media world. He's got a chance to change it when you say "media is what it is, and there's nothing to be done." Unlike all of us. So you're talking about the diaries and the servers that belong to your chairman, aren't you? And don't tell me the situation is what it is. That's really zero information value.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u63	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, please, to Mr Blažek's speaker's counter. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u64	Thank you. I, by means of you, to my colleague Vondráček. That sentence sounded even better - we have the media we have. Yes, you have the media you have. Yes, that's right. [[Laughter and applause from the left.]] This cannot be said better and difficult to go on. But also about the debate we had together, sort of. I didn't say media hunting in general. In our country, the problem is, when the MP goes to interrogation, I don't understand, it wasn't like that at one time, so the media know that, and they're already standing there, and they're calling ahead "you have an interrogation." That's the media hunt. And it won't be if it's not released. Yes, they'll be writing something in your media for two days. Yeah? Then there'll be another topic, maybe Hana Marvanová will remember something else she hasn't said yet, and there'll be another topic. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Yeah? But the hunt would be just by going somewhere and always just standing there. I'm always interested in who's gonna tell the media. It's probably the police or prosecutors, because there's no other way, and I just don't want this to happen to anyone. That's what I meant about the hunt, not the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u65	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, please, with the de facto Vice-President of the House of Filip. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, I have one more comment on immunity and indemnity. If anyone here wants us to speak freely only behind this counter and wants to take the freedom of ten and a half million Čech, that's a really brave piece.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mr. Komárek's microphone and his two minutes, please. [[Screams from the O.R. No more!]] Calm down, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u68	Thank you. I will only remind Mr Gabala through your President that he knows that I have read something and that I know the history, so don't let him pretend he doesn't know it. And secondly, I really just want to regulate the law of immunity in a reasonable way so that it meets the current conditions, that is to reduce reasonably - and again I say, I don't want people to be double-class, one who can, as we say, be police illegally prosecuted, and others can not. It just doesn't give me my sense of justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking for a microphone with Mr Vondráček's actual office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u70	I'm just gonna make it quick. I'm new here. I'd just like to ask you a few questions about the situation 20 years ago in the diaper of those who have been here for a long time. Was it like that when it comes to the media hunt? Or is this some sort of historical development we're talking about? You know, fish rotting from the head. There were just things going on here that led to what we have here today. Otherwise, the only medium I have is when I eat a steak in a restaurant or I don't own a psychic. I take it from my previous speakers here as a certain commitment that we will deal with this and that the result of this term will be that power executives will not interfere with the legislative power, because they will do what they have to do and will obey the laws. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u71	Thank you, and I am now asking Mr Fichtner to take action. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u72	Thank you. This will not be towards you, it will be towards the citizens. I just want the citizens to see that, in short, as it seems, all the traditional parties are against us on this matter. And I can say that I don't mind at all personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, and now please, duly signed up for Mr Kalousek's debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have Kailová proposed the abolition of criminal immunity in the last parliamentary term, and I intend to propose something similar with my colleagues and this House. [[Voice from the O.R., loud!]] Even this House, I presume, also unsuccessfully. And I didn't do that, and I'm not gonna do that because I consider immunity an historic excess or privilege. I'm convinced it's not a privilege. I believe that this is basically a means of working for the legislator to be able to do his work independently. As I once had to wear an asbestos apron at Mitas's national enterprise for hot polymers, the legislator must simply have the immunity idol as a protective device provided that the chamber could deal with it. That's what I've been rationalizing in the last parliamentary term, and I'm going to justify it now. We just can't deal with her. We sometimes use it as a political struggle against our ideal opponents, or even against intra-party enemies, we sometimes use it to please the current media mainstream, we sometimes use it in such a way that we don't understand it at all, because we say: I don't think it should pay, so my constitutional obligation to consider it will be ignored. I repeat, I will propose the abolition of immunity, but as long as the law is in force, my constitutional obligation of the legislature to carry out that obligation and to consider at any moment whether it is an accusation that must continue to be processed without any delay, or whether it is so visibly purposeful stupid bullying, that it will wait until the end of the mandate, because there is no reason to believe that the motive is anything other than purposeful bullying. And that's my duty. I can disagree a thousand times that she's immunity, I can ask a thousand times for her cancellation, but as long as she exists, I simply have a duty to consider it according to my parliamentary pledge, according to my best knowledge and conscience. And since I have considered this, and I am deeply convinced that the accusation of Mrs Kailová is merely a stupid bullying, I will not resign from my constitutional right nor will I alibistically hide from my constitutional duty and vote against its extradition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u75	Thank you, honourable Member. Given that I have no one else entered into the general debate, I have no factual point here either, I conclude the general debate and ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to a debate in detail, in which I have no application, so I conclude a detailed debate and ask the rapporteur whether he wants to take advantage of the right of the final word. It's not like that. I will therefore ask the rapporteur of this press to give us a vote on the motion for a resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. We therefore have here the draft mandate and immunity committee, namely resolution 66 of the 15th meeting on 10 June 2014. You all have that resolution on your desks, or you should have it. That means we all know what we're going to vote on. The resolution is that the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 4 of Constitutional Act No. 1/1993, Constitution of the Czech Republic, and Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, agrees with the criminal prosecution of Mrs BC Zuzana Kailová, born 21. 7. 1974, for the deed that - and now a description of the deed is given in the written material. This is a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies that we should vote on. There was no amendment or counter-proposal for this resolution, which means we will vote on the original, as proposed by the mandate and immune committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-001-001.u77	Okay, thank you. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution in question. Before we do this, please let us all sign out and rejoin. Thank you. And I am now opening the vote. Who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is voting number 13, in which 173 Members are enrolled, in favour of 42 against 81. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. I'm done discussing this point, and we're approaching item 17, which is
