ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-010-046.u1	46. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income and property taxes and the Protocol to it signed in Brussels on 5 March 2013 /German press 94/ - First reading I ask for the opening words of Mr. Vice-President of the Government and of Mr. Andrej Babiš's Finance Minister. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-010-046.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a contractual document relating to international taxation. This is a completely new treaty to prevent double taxation with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. For information, this new treaty has already been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in the last term, but no second reading has taken place. It is therefore necessary for this Treaty to be renegotiated, including in the Senate, which has already approved its ratification. This Treaty replaces in the mutual tax relations between the two countries a double taxation treaty signed in 1991, which no longer reflects current relations between the Czech Republic and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, does not reflect tax trends and the like. The double taxation treaty currently proposed between the Czech Republic and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models. The conclusion of this international tax treaty certainly follows the intention to limit the tax burden on business entities when excluding unintended international double taxation. The conclusion of the contract will not have a direct impact on the state budget of the Czech Republic. The overall contribution resulting from its closure will depend on the pace of development of the various forms of economic cooperation. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has historically traditionally good relations with our country, even in the economic area. The new international tax treaty will allow better coordination of the activities of the tax authorities of both states to limit possible tax evasion and, last but not least, will enable the relevant exchange of information on taxes of all kinds and names. It can be concluded that the text of the contract fully reflects the development of the international tax area. On the basis of the above, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic take into account those facts when discussing the double taxation treaty with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and I propose that this international tax treaty be ordered at first reading by the relevant committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-010-046.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Jiří Mihola, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-010-046.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just add to the words of Minister Babiš that this Treaty builds on the previous treaty between the Czechoslovak Republic and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which was concluded in 1991. Let me sum up a few sentences that her goal is to avoid unnecessary reductions in the income of natural and legal persons. Therefore, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Czech Republic have agreed to conclude this new treaty, which should accept the requirements of the Organisation for Economic Policy and Development as well as the UN's requirements to evenly divide future income between the two states, the State where income is generated and the State where the real owner of such income is resident. The conclusion of this Treaty should strengthen legal certainty in particular when investing in one or other State. The principle is respected here that the property of natural or legal persons of a Contracting State may be taxed in a State whose legal or natural person is his tax resident. This Treaty also provides a number of other exceptions. It has a total of 29 articles and, among other things, we will find a solution to the taxation of athletes, a solution to the taxation of artists or also intellectual property. I propose that the contract be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-010-046.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate where no one is reporting to, so I am also closing it, and if the Vice-President or rapporteur does not wish to hear the final words, then we will consider the motion for a commandment. There is a proposal from the Organising Committee to order the Committee of Foreign Affairs. So did the rapporteur. [[10.00 hours]] I'll start the vote. I'm asking who agrees with the foreign committee's commandment. Who's against it? The vote has order number 53. There's 168 logged in for 138, no one's against it. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have ordered this press to the Foreign Committee. I'm done discussing paragraph 46. Let's continue with the point.
