ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the second day of the 23rd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Chalupa - card number 9. Mr Velebný has a card 6. Mrs Nohavová has card number 13. Mr Adam - health reasons, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - health reasons, Mr Čihák - personal reasons, Mr René Číp within 17 hours - personal reasons, Mrs Halíková - personal reasons, Mrs Koskuba - health reasons, Mrs Nováková - foreign travel, Mrs Nytrová - transport situation, Mrs Pecková - working reasons, Mrs Semelová - personal reasons, Mr Rykala from the morning hearing - personal Ženíšek, Mr Schwarz - working grounds, Mr Soukup from 11.30 to 15 hours - health reasons, Mr Šincl - health reasons, Mr Urban - health reasons, Mr Vozekka - working reasons, Mr Vozka - working grounds. Minister chovanec apologizes from the members of the government until 10.30 for work reasons, Minister Jurečka from the morning meeting and from 17.30 for work reasons, Minister Němeček - working reasons, Minister Válková - foreign trip and Minister Zaorálek - also foreign trip. So many apologies. Minister Stropnický votes with card number 17. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] I would like to inform you that today's meeting should begin with a fixed item number 1, which is the state budget, the House press 331 at second reading. We would also consider other unnegotiated points from the second reading block, which are points 13, 14, 15, 16, prints 299, 339, 154 and 144, and then, if necessary, points from the first reading block. So much information for the course of the day. I see Mr. Vice President Gazdík's priority right. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u2	Good morning, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. I'd like to inform you about an emergency that's happened. Approximately an hour and a half ago, a warehouse exploded in Vrbětice-Vlachovice, in the presence of the army and the police monitoring it. I am called by the mayors of the surrounding municipalities and our mayor Vlachovic-Vrbětice, asking the government not to really underestimate the situation, because citizens are more terrified of the new explosion than before. I have already personally asked the Home Secretary to personally address the situation. The minister has promised me, and he's already in contact with the mayor, and he's trying to deal with it personally. I thank him for this as a representative of the Zlín Region and I ask the government from this place not to really underestimate the situation, especially the citizens' awareness of what is happening and why this is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u3	Thank you. I have several applications here now. Mr Fiedler - I would like to inform you that at this stage you can only speak with the proposal for a change in the agenda because you do not have a priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. Yes, I precisely wanted to speak with this proposal, Mr President, because we have already proposed this point - our parliamentary club through me - once. And I think that the current situation in Vrbětice-Vlachovice is really recording it so that the Chamber of Deputies finally begins to deal with the situation that is happening there, with what is happening there. According to the information that I have at my disposal, which thus came to me, there were some problems already during the night. Delivery or supply vehicles were not admitted into this area in the morning. And leave the citizens and the children behind? We're gonna let the citizens take the kids to school? So the police or the proper workers who, according to the information I have at my disposal, emphasize - have prevented supply vehicles from driving in and let the residents take their children to kindergarten and now they're picking them up? I think this is a really catastrophic situation that is taking place there, which is why I propose that we place a point on the agenda of today's meeting in the situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice and in the ammunition warehouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u5	Yes. Now I have three priority rights here. First of all, Prime Minister Kalousek, then Minister of Defence and then Prime Minister. So, President Kalousek and after him, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u6	I would like to support Mr Fiedler's request and recall the words said by the Minister of the Interior. When we made a futile effort for the Chamber of Deputies to address this point, the Home Secretary said, "Don't scare people! There two people entered the warehouse and then there was an explosion. That can never happen again. The words were heard here. We do not want to scare anyone, but we also reject the totally reckless underestimating of such a situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u7	Now the Minister of Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My esteemed colleagues, on the grounds that the Minister of the Interior is not here, I will at least allow myself a brief piece of information. As you probably know, the government has dealt with the situation at least twice, not only did it, but of course it has taken some concrete steps, some measures, and the Ministry of Defence is involved in the fact that 34 soldiers are working on the decontamination in Vrbětice. It's just a detail. Otherwise, the police of the Czech Republic, its bomb squads, firefighters. As you know, there was a situation where after the seven days when no spontaneous explosion occurred, work began to remove the rest of the ammunition from the access roads so that individual warehouses could gradually start emptying out. In parallel to this, and this is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Defence, it was decided by the government that the ammunition warehouse Květná will again be put into operational condition. The army hasn't used it for a year, but it's possible to put it in a state at relatively low cost so that the ammunition can be safely stored there until we agree with the private subjects as far as possible. This is all happening. Of course, the explosions that we're talking about here cannot be completely ruled out in that context, but there are experts on the ground who have and must assess the situation as it develops. [[9.10 hours]] Apparently, there's been a slide of the crater, as it was mentioned, as you'll recall, under the object that exploded and caused it all. It should be a partial problem, of course, but very unpleasant. Of course, I understand that it has at least upset the residents, but it is already up to the local authorities to take measures such as kindergarten, school, which I, for the sake of the Minister of Defence, may be difficult to deal with. The explosions can happen, they can and no one knows exactly, and it is not human to determine whether they will actually occur and to what extent. These can also cause the movement of game or some partial land slide, or the whole area is a very risky place, but the deployment of people and specialists is the maximum to which you can reach. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] I believe the news will be more optimistic. They've been a number of days, and let's just say this is expressive, but let's hope it's a partial inconvenience. But I repeat again, if there's a need to reach out to any special mode of operation -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u9	I'm very sorry, Minister. But there was an interest in explaining the situation, which the Minister is doing, and he might also need to argue in a dignified atmosphere. Please calm down, it's a serious subject, so let's just focus on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u10	Now I don't really know if I understand the reminder, but I have a dead left ear. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u11	I, Minister, have tried to make peace in the Chamber so that you could speak in a dignified atmosphere. That was all I was trying to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u12	Thank you. I was hoping it was. Thank you. I won't do it again. It may not satisfy some of you completely, but the whole trouble is a big problem, it is being investigated and it is again a matter of the Police of the Czech Republic. We're preparing a replacement solution. In May, again, the government has allocated 83 soldiers to guard the area, so that we are preparing a replacement safe location, and if there is a need for special measures, I believe that this is within the competence of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u13	Now the Prime Minister has the floor and President Okamura will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u14	Thank you. Good morning, honourable Members. Let me inform you, as Prime Minister, of the Government's progress in the explosion in the ammunition warehouse area in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. First of all, I think it is important to note that this area previously served for the needs of the Czech Army and the Ministry of Defence. Then the army ceased to use these warehouses, the warehouses remained owned by the Ministry of Defence, namely its Resort organization of the Research Institute, and this Resort organization rented these warehouses to commercial entities. It is therefore state property, which is largely used for commercial activities, especially as regards the storage of ammunition. In Vlachovice-Vrbětice there was a significant concentration of stored ammunition. I must say that for me personally it was a very surprising finding that up to 15,000 tons of ammunition can be stored in this area. In his individual objects. This has not taken place in the last ten months. The stocking took place over the past few years. After the explosion occurred in one of these ammunition warehouses, which is a fact that is known, the situation naturally began to be dealt with immediately by both the Ministry of Defence and, in particular, the Ministry of the Interior, because the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic include the liquidation of such events and the solution of such events if they occur anywhere in the Czech Republic. Naturally, the government deals with these issues, I must say that at almost every government meeting either the Minister of Defence or the Minister of the Interior informs about how bailouts are carried out and the intervention of the Police of the Czech Republic in this area. I would like to inform you that the government has decided on the occupation of soldiers of the Czech Army to guard this area up to a maximum of 100 people. As I found on the spot from the representatives of the authorities, it is evident that the security of this area - especially the technical security, I mean the fence and fence, has suffered some wear in recent years and it is evident that this fence is not in the same condition today as it was at the time when the area was used under the previous regime or shortly after 1990. That is why I considered it important that the security of the entire area be strengthened to the maximum, and I am very pleased that the government has decided that this security will be carried out by members of the Army of the Czech Republic. At this time, the whole area is marked and at this time the whole area is guarded either physically or through the assistance of technical equipment. This means that no civilian person has access to the premises without permission from the authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic. At this time, neither the Minister of Interior nor the Minister of Defence nor the Prime Minister is in charge of the intervention on the premises of Vlachovice-Vrbětice. Based on the relevant regulations, this whole intervention is the responsibility of the Police of the Czech Republic and the main pyrotechnics company of the Police of the Czech Republic. The intervention takes place on the basis of all professional assumptions and also on the basis of the experience the Police of the Czech Republic has with similar events. At the same time, I have to say that I have been convinced on the spot and I have been informed on the spot that there is no precedent in recent years that corresponds to the situation that has been created in this very area. It is an area where there is a very significant concentration of stored private ammunition, and it is an area where a significant explosion occurred. In the last 25 years, there is essentially no analogy in the Czech Republic to the situation that arose in this former ammunition complex. The only thing that can remind us of this situation is the explosion in Slovakia in recent years in Novak, where the ammunition exploded again and it had similar, perhaps even more tragic consequences in terms of damage to human lives. At the moment the premises are closed for civilians, the premises are guarded, the premises are managed by members and authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic and the route cleaning has been carried out in the past days so that the ammunition is removed from this area. If I was informed by the Home Secretary this morning about the situation with regard to the last explosions, the point is that the crater, which was created by the original explosion, is being further retracted. There it happened, since the explosion of really highly dangerous ammunition type of air bomb or artillery grenades, that is, in the building that was destroyed by the explosion, were stored by air bombs, were stored there artillery grenades, created by this explosion crater, within this crater occurred in recent weeks to the greatest concentration of spontaneous explosions. The spontaneous explosions stopped a few days ago, but there's a crater slide, and there are other spontaneous explosions in connection with this crater slide. It is logical that the progress of the work of the Police of the Czech Republic will be adapted to the current security situation, which is on the premises. Perhaps you would like to ask why there is cleaning of roads on the premises and why ammunition is to be removed from this area Vlachovice-Vrbětice. I would like to inform you that the main pyrotechnics and the Police of the Czech Republic have reached an expert opinion that the overall remediation of the entire complex can only be implemented in a situation where it is safe for citizens and residents of surrounding municipalities. The maximum safety will begin with extensive remediation of the entire area only when all the ammunition that is stored there is gradually taken away, because the implementation of the remediation in a situation where the ammunition is scattered between the individual objects in which the other ammunition is stored would be very risky for the citizens of the surrounding municipalities. [[9.20 hours]] It was therefore decided that, first, all ammunition in storage had to be removed from the premises, and only then would it be possible to carry out a total bailout, which is estimated in the order of more than one year. So undoubtedly a few months, perhaps one to two years, will be carried out by the overall remediation of this vast area. The government therefore decided to do so and adopted the relevant resolution that a replacement facility would be prepared. It is again a complex that was used in the past by the Army of the Czech Republic as a ammunition warehouse, located in Květná u Polička, and a part of the ammunition from Vlachovic-Vrbětice should be reloaded into this area. Why do I say part of it? The ammo that's stored and that wasn't hit by the explosion is privately owned. Primarily, its owners, which are private companies, should take care of the removal of this ammunition and its storage. The government therefore invited private owners of ammunition to ensure its transport in order to ensure its replacement storage. Where these private companies will not be able to secure storage, they are ready to help the premises in Květná, which started to be put into operation, and at the same time the government has allocated a certain number of members of the army of the Czech Republic in order to guard the premises in Květná as soon as the transfer of ammunition from the premises in Vlachovice and Vrbětice is started. We therefore assume that part of the ammunition, as soon as possible, as soon as the approval of the main bomb squad is given by the Police of the Czech Republic, as soon as it is possible to start the transfer, will be initiated by private companies to which the ammunition belongs, or transfer to a replacement facility in Květná will be started. I consider it absolutely necessary, honourable Members, to ensure that the premises in Vlachovice and Vrbětice are cleared as quickly as possible as possible as government. After all, it is also a request for the mayors of the surrounding municipalities with whom I had the opportunity to speak personally about the matter. It is therefore absolutely necessary for the Police and the Army of the Czech Republic to act in such a way, with all care, on the basis of all the rules, that this area be prepared for the subsequent removal of ammunition. At the same time, honourable Members, the Government of the Czech Republic did not have any crisis plan prepared for the past years to allocate any alternate location in the event of such an occurrence. Here I think the state wasn't prepared enough for this crisis situation, and I want to assure you that nothing like this will happen again in the future. The government has asked the Minister of the Interior to analyse the relevant legislation, the relevant crisis plans will be adjusted. We will also consider the total amount of ammunition and where it is stored in the Czech Republic. I think it's a mistake that there isn't a clear crisis plan that charts how many ammo where it's concentrated. What happened in Vlachovice-Vrbětice was, in my opinion, an inconspicuously commercial basis, a mistake that such a large ammunition warehouse was not sufficiently taken into account in any type of crisis plans. Such a situation should not be repeated in any location of the Czech Republic in the future. I want to assure both Members and Members of this Chamber of Deputies that the government, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior pay sufficient attention to the situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. The Ministry of the Interior is in contact with the authorities, is in contact with the Zlín Region, which naturally also deals with this matter. The aim is to minimise any risks that might exist to the public, or, of course, to members of the Army and the Police of the Czech Republic, who will ensure the removal of this ammunition, as well as to representatives of private companies. At the same time, it is not possible for the government to resign to remove this ammunition from the premises and allow it to be stored elsewhere. Of course, only the ammunition that will be in a state to be transported will be taken away. Appropriate checks shall be carried out. But again, experts from the Police of the Czech Republic who are professionally prepared for this area and who are prepared for this area also in terms of their experience they have. At the same time, I would like to say and inform the Chamber of Deputies that not only there is a Vlachovice-Vrbětice case, which we will undoubtedly focus on, I assume that the Minister of the Interior will be prepared to inform the relevant committee of the Chamber of Deputies at its next meeting, but there are still areas that have been here since World War II, where there are a number of scattered ammunition in the territory of the Czech Republic, and today there are still conflicts of competence about who will deal with this. I would like to draw attention to the area of the former ammunition near Břeclav on the border between the Czech Republic and Austria. This munitions factory exploded at the end of World War II. To this day, there is still a dispute about who will bail out this location. There hasn't been a single ministry agreement to this day. I think it is necessary for the government of the Czech Republic to pay attention to this, too. It is simply not possible that there is a territory in the Czech Republic that requires remediation that requires the protection of citizens against possible injuries or deaths as a result of the ammunition finding, and the State has behaved in the way that it has been treated so far. The honourable Member, honourable Members, has so much information, which I have presented on the basis of the speeches of a number of Members and Members at the beginning of today's Chamber of Deputies meeting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u15	Yes. Thank you, Prime Minister. President Okamura is still on the list with priority rights and has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen. Well, of course I have to comment on that, because, as I was saying, it's my former senate district where I got the highest trust in Senate elections. This is the Prime Minister... On the one hand, I am pleased and thank him for expressing himself very much, but I did not understand the performance for two reasons. First of all, the Prime Minister has raised new questions that need to be answered, and secondly, I think that we could save these long speeches for the very point that the Úsvit movement proposed by Karel Fiedler, my colleague, to put this as an extraordinary point and to open a debate on this point for other Members from the Zlín Region, because I have noticed that other Members from the Zlín Region have also supported the inclusion of this point through the political spectrum in the past. Basically, everyone in the Zlín Region through the political spectrum raised their hand to vote here last time on this extraordinary point. So it follows that Members of the Zlín Region, which I see and know here, would certainly like to comment on this, and they are members of the ČSSD, KDU-ČSL and others. And I think that we should not defend the debate of Members through the political spectrum, because, on the basis of that last vote, it has proved to be our proposal for a point in order to include this as an extraordinary point so that we can all express our views on this in the debate. Because now under the programme, as we know, only those with priority rights have the opportunity to speak, and therefore the ordinary Member cannot express himself in the debate. So once again, I appeal to all of you, so that we can democratically allow and vote in favour of discussing this important point. And I'm just reminding you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u17	I'm asking for peace again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u18	I'm just reminding you that when we voted on this point on the initiative of the Dawn movement a month ago, it didn't pass. We were assured that there is no need to discuss the matter of Vlachovic and Vrbětic at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and then we stand here after a month and again the ammunition explodes. So I say again: let us discuss this so that the other Members, through the political spectrum, at least from us in the Zlín Region, can express themselves, because I do not know what the debate is. But to go specifically. So I think the Prime Minister has raised a number of very new and serious questions here. And I'll ask you about the one this morning, the current one, Prime Minister. [[9.30 hours]] How, then, is it possible that when the whole matter is under control that Vrbětic-Vlachovic was not allowed in supply vehicles this morning, but at the same time mothers and children brought their children to schools and kindergartens. This means, on the one hand, that the supply wagons will not be allowed to enter, so the state of the highest danger is that the supply vehicles are not likely to be harmed and, on the other hand, mothers with children and citizens are not informed. Mothers and children go to school and take their children to schools. So something doesn't work here. It doesn't really work here. It doesn't work here. So that is the point to which, Mr Prime Minister - and I wanted to thank you, of course, for the introduction, that you have devoted yourself very extensively to this subject, to begin with, but from my point of view very little, so it would be good to answer immediately. Point number two. I am stressing, and we have also published the photographs and got them into the hands of Minister Stropnický, who actually flies there through the air. Dear friends, I don't think you can imagine what's flying through the air there, but we currently have, for example. photographs from citizens that there are about 20 centimeter meteorites, for example, and I suppose in Vrbětice-Vlachovice it is not really a meteorite from space, but when, for example. Citizen sent us a photo of him noticing that next to his family house where he's storing wood, there's a hole like this in a sheet that covers wood. [[It shows size.]] The sheet with which the wood is covered. So he was wondering how the hole was in the tin, he uncovered the metal and pulled out this big, it looks like a meteorite, a stone. [[shows size again]] Yes, it's obviously a fragment of some kind of ammo. And this one's flying through the air. Just so you guys have an idea, because I don't know if you all have that idea why we're here on a mic repeatedly. So I'd be curious if you lived in a village where when you bring your kids to school in the morning, there are significant and provenly flying such large pieces of air, dear friends! So that's why I'm appealing to you again that it would be good to discuss this before there really is another tragedy. The next thing is. Well, I'm a little surprised at the Prime Minister's speech, which spoke on behalf of the government about the fact that the companies that are currently storing the ammunition will be asked to move the ammunition elsewhere, that it will be the companies that were storing the ammunition today in such a way that it is basically banging and it has actually occurred to such a situation. I know it's probably the easiest option, but it's a little embarrassing even outside Vrbětice-Vlachovice, when ammunition is transported to May, which is also in the Zlin region by the way, and actually the same company... [[Voice from the O.R. Off the mic.]] Sorry, yes. .... within the Czech Republic, so coincidentally those companies that have already failed once, so they will again arrange transport to another warehouse. So it's also a question of whether it's really appropriate, and I'd like either the Minister here or the Prime Minister to express himself and distract those concerns. I don't think it's a reliable path. And what are the guarantees? I also have a question here which also results from this speech by the Prime Minister. Minister Chovanec said on TV a few days ago that for a long time there were signals that everything was not okay in Vrbětice-Vlachovice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u19	I would ask especially the right part of the hall at this stage to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u20	So I would just follow up on the fact that Minister Chovanec said on TV a few days ago that there have been signals for a long time that everything was not okay in Vrbětice-Vlachovice. I think that this information, too, should be further discussed here, from the point of view of how long this information has been, that everything is not okay, and what has actually been done for action in this regard. I, for one, must say that, after I spoke to the representatives of the government, there is certainly an effort there, and I am saying that frankly again, that the Prime Minister has spoken this way, I am flattering in the name of the citizens. But really the information, how long, what is the specific time, when you had the signals, and what steps have been taken, so it's missing here, unfortunately, it didn't come out here. It's always like some kind of proclamation, but we're missing the specific stuff. Next, there's 15,000 tons of ammo in that compound. And I'm asking what the supervisory authorities were doing when we know, according to the information, that the supervisory authorities had weekly reports of movement in storage, and we all know that there was an inadequate amount of ammunition stored in that warehouse. So I'm asking, and I'm hoping after a month or two, we could get an answer to that question, and it's a crucial question -- who's to blame. Who? Is the name of the supervisory authority finally going to fall or someone who's actually responsible for all this? Because the Prime Minister said that legislation would change, that it would be adapted. Well, of course, we called for that a month ago, or even since the beginning of this case, but we can't change legislation unless we have a name for where the problem is and who's to blame, where the error is. That would be half-assed again. The way I always do it is to name my problems specifically, and then the solution is reflected. So I'm asking when the government says you've got it under control, so since you've got it under control, you've got an identified culprit. It can't be under control otherwise. So I'm asking who's responsible, who's responsible, who's the supervisory authority, who's failed, and then who's responsible. All this time these questions are not falling and I say again that I am asking questions on behalf of the citizens of Vrbětic-Vlachovic, whom we are talking about. The next thing is that, because when we're with those supervisory authorities that had a weekly report on the movement of ammunition, how is it possible that there was such a large ammo raid? This question hasn't been answered in all this time either. It hasn't been three weeks or two days since the Chamber of Deputies, which is why we couldn't even ask for it properly, which is why we're asking about it now. And after today, we see that this is a highly topical topic again. The next thing we're talking about here is the transfer of ammunition to another place and the same companies whose operation, during whose storage these problems occurred. I'm asking who's going to pay, who's going to pay for the transfer, if it's private companies that were supposed to store this ammunition on the basis of some legislation or some of their activities. Now we're gonna tell them again: there's already a huge problem, so you guys take it somewhere else - which is my question because it raises doubts. And I'm asking who's gonna pay if it was a private business and it's a question connected to the culprit. I'd hate to hear the taxpayers pay for everything again, because a private company failed or some particular body that wasn't named here failed, and it's gonna be swept under the carpet again. Please, let us at least answer these questions. And just the last supplement, that in the May, which is supposed to be a new place, virtually. One of the new places to store it is the capacity of only 2800 tons, but the ammunition is 15,000 tons. That means, once again, we're missing the question of what to do with the rest of it. Where's the rest of it going? So again, another question that hasn't been answered here. Therefore, I really thank the Prime Minister for opening the debate, but please, let us open it within the scope of the point so that we can really ask that question, because I assume that you will probably not know these answers from your head, which we are in no way blaming, but it would be good for either the minister concerned or for us to open the question and ask questions within an extraordinary point. I say again for myself, for úsvit, we're not going to make it a political point. We just want the specific questions, because the citizens are bombing us, and as you know, when the citizens of Vrbetic-Vlachovic started collecting the petition, there were 200 signatures, and after visiting the ministers of Mr Stropnický and Mr Chovanec, we thought the number of signatures would fall, and he went up to 1500. That means the opposite has happened, so we should respond. I will not delay this, please just answer these specific questions and I beg you to support us to open this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u21	The Prime Minister wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u22	Thank you. honourable Members, I do not believe that it is absolutely necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this at this time. I believe that the matter is competently clear. On the spot is the commander of the intervention, which is part of the structure of the Police of the Czech Republic. The whole Vlachovice-Vrbětice action is subordinate to the Fire Rescue Corps in terms of the integrated rescue system, which means the whole thing is controlled in the structure of the Fire Rescue Corps. Police of the Czech Republic are intervening on the spot. There's a responsible strike commander. Police bomb squads are present. And I do not, with all due respect to the Chamber of Deputies, believe that we are experts in carrying out such an intervention in an unprecedented situation in Vlachovice and Vrbětice. I don't think we're gonna be able to give any advice at this point in time to intruding police officers in this location. At the same time, the Minister of the Interior is ready to inform the Chamber of Deputies. I assume he is currently engaged in controlling the activities of the Police of the Czech Republic, controlling the activities of the Fire Rescue Corps, therefore he is not present at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And I assume that as soon as he arrives at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, he will be informed. [[Mr Okamura presents photographs on the speaker's desk.]] Mr. Chairman Okamura gave me photographs here. I've seen them, Mr. Chairman, so these photographs are familiar to me. I'm aware of this matter, and I know that the shrapnel you're showing here has flown within a distance of about two kilometers from the epicenter of the explosion. It was at the moment when the explosion occurred in the ammunition warehouse in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. That's not a photograph from today, but it's the original explosion that happened. And the shrapnel has flown up to two kilometers away! That's a very long distance, of course. So in Vlachovice-Vrbětice, if there is a need to evacuate the population, there will be an evacuation of the population. The commander of the intervention by the Police of the Czech Republic has at this time provided information that is available to him, which means that according to his information there is a crater slide and the ammunition explodes in this crater. This is currently available information available to the Minister of the Interior. There is no other information available to the government than information from the intervention commander at this time. So we're dealing with things. On the issues raised by President Okamura, very briefly. Private ammo will have to be taken away by the private companies that own it. At my own expense. If the State has to arrange a ride, it will require compensation from these private companies. If the state has to store the ammunition, it will require rent from these companies, and I believe it will be higher than required in Vlachovice and Vrbětice. I think it was a pretty convenient business for these private companies based on the information I have at my disposal to store ammo in this area. So private companies must participate in the reimbursement of the costs involved. But we can't wait for them. The state must act, and then it must enforce funds from these private firms. And the petition that President Okamura spoke of. I met the members of the petition committee. I spoke to the citizens who put this petition together. I was talking about their demands. The requirements were essentially two main ones. First, to ensure that the state delivers the ammunition from this area as quickly as possible. Second, in order for the future, if it deals with this area, it should act in agreement with the municipalities, in agreement with the citizens, so that such a situation does not develop there in the future. I think I can clearly say that the state will advocate that as soon as it is safe, the ammunition is taken away and that the area will remain state-owned as long as bailouts are carried out. When the bailout is completed, the state will discuss with municipalities, with the region, with citizens how it will be dealt with, how it will eventually be privatised and under what conditions it will eventually be privatised. It is also possible that the premises can be transferred to the municipality or can be privatised in another way. But in any case, this must happen in agreement with the municipalities, after negotiations with the municipalities, after negotiations with the region, after negotiations with the citizens, so that people feel secure in terms of the future use of this complex in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. So so much very briefly to this situation. And I really want to assure you that the government is dealing with this matter. Personally, it is very important to me that we allow people in Vlachovice-Vrbětice as soon as possible and also in the surrounding villages to sleep in order to know that ammunition is being taken away, that the risks have been reduced to zero. But at the same time, it is also necessary to provide room for the work of police experts, police bomb squads. Such an explosion with such risks over the past 25 years, as I have been informed, has not occurred anywhere in the Czech Republic. And when the crisis is resolved, please let us focus on how something like this may have happened. But we can't forget that either. How is that possible? How is it that the state didn't have any information that we've been focusing on this amount of private ammunition? How is this possible? What were the services of this state doing? What were the security forces doing? How did they monitor it? How can governments be informed? Have the previous governments informed us that such a large amount of ammunition was concentrated there? And if governments haven't informed, how is that possible? Why? How is it possible that the ammunition warehouse to this extent was not part of an integrated rescue plan from the point of view of the region? Crisis control. Once again, there's big holes, there's big gaps, there's no way to underestimate it, there's no way to sweep it under the carpet. But what I consider to be a priority now is the protection of the health of citizens, and then we will only be concerned with who doubted what rules are wrong so that this situation cannot be repeated in the Czech Republic again. And if we find out that past governments have been warned and have not responded, we will, of course, also make it public. But first, we want to take care of the security and property of citizens in this region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u23	President Sklenák is now reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. The situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice is undoubtedly serious. However, there is also a serious issue of the state budget, and I believe that the information from the Prime Minister and the Minister at this point is sufficient for Members and Members, and that we will do better if we focus on the budget. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and YES, I veto the inclusion of this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u25	Yes, so in that case, we're not voting on it. I'll ask President Kalousek if his application with priority rights is valid. Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u26	In fact, while I must respect the veto of two parliamentary clubs, let me express some resentment over the fact that none of us questioned the importance of the state budget, and they were representatives of the opposition who urged the Gremium to be discussed first of all, even today, in order not to delay it, so simply this extraordinary event deserved its extraordinary discussion or deserved it. I'm very disappointed that you don't feel that way. Because no one doubts that the Fire Rescue Corps, police and police bomb squads are doing their job on the spot and that they are doing everything possible. But it is a question of political responsibility that necessarily belongs here in such a case. And they simply answer to the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for political responsibility. The Home Secretary answers to the government, the government answers to the Chamber of Deputies, and the Chamber of Deputies answers to the people who elected it here. And I find it scandalous that we just don't want to deal with it, because the information just doesn't sound complete. If the Prime Minister here says that the people of Vrbětic should sleep easily, so the companies were asked to take the ammunition - it looks like it's going to be taken by Christmas. I don't think the problem is that simple, and at least someone should be politically responsible for that term. So if this is no longer the Chamber of Deputies to discuss, then at least, Prime Minister, when you have provided the information that your club president has called exhausting, I do not agree with it, at least tell the Chamber of Deputies the date to which you guarantee that the material will be taken. We'd like to hear that term because I don't think it'll be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u27	Mr. Prime Minister, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u28	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. I agree that there is a need to act and discuss matters in the Chamber of Deputies. I would just like to say to President Kalousek that the Minister of the Interior will inform the Chamber of Deputies as soon as he arrives at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So the information on his side will sound. Secondly, I must say that during the time when I visited the Vlachovice-Vrbětice complex, there were still spontaneous explosions there, a few days after that there were spontaneous explosions. The police bomb squad has set a weekly period from the last spontaneous explosion to the start of the transport preparation. But what I'm saying is that I personally haven't checked all the other ammunition warehouses that are in this area. Only their control, check the condition of this ammo can tell us when it will be possible to start a safe transport and to what extent. The government turned to the private companies that own this ammo instantly. Immediately after the explosion. Immediately after the explosion, I was wondering if these companies were contacting, if they were communicating with the Home Office and were ready to take care of their property. Here is the clear responsibility of the owner, meaning the companies that stored this ammunition there. That ammo doesn't belong to the state. The ammo belongs to private companies. These companies have only rented state property in recent years and have stored this ammunition in this state property. So, Congressman, at this point, I'm not going to give you a deadline on when the ammo will be taken away. I can only say that the government is putting pressure on private companies to take care of their assets. Where, for objective reasons, this will not be possible, the government immediately started preparing a replacement facility to which the ammunition can be removed. But at the same time, I have respect for the work of police bomb squads risking their lives and risking their health on the spot, and I'm based on their expert opinion and their expert opinion. If further explosions occur, it is evident that an additional period will have to be set, after which it will be possible to continue the preparation of the ammunition shipment. At this point, I cannot speak, nor do I have the authority to speak for the commander of the intervention. And it will be the intervention commander who will determine the next timetable for the procedure. As Prime Minister, I will respect the decision of the intervention commander because he is a competent man with police bomb squads around him and they are able to tell him how to proceed. But we won't be wasting our time. Meanwhile, the government will deal with private firms. We'll prep the transport. Meanwhile, the government is preparing a replacement location in May. I just want to point out that the alternate location was already ready for privatisation, which means it was no longer planned from the point of view of the state. If the explosion in Vrbětice were to occur two, three years later, the state may not have had any premises at all, where ammunition could be driven if private companies failed to take care of their property. So I just want to say that, unfortunately, here is the element of the private owner who has his responsibility, and the state has to put clear pressure on the private owner to live up to that responsibility for the ammunition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u29	Mr. Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u30	I'm so sorry, but thanks to the veto, my colleagues can't go without priority rights. Prime Minister, your answer is fair and no one can ask the impossible of you. We also believe that when the Home Secretary arrives, he will inform us. But please, the level of distrust comes from the last time the Home Secretary informed us, he said, "Don't scare people." That's where this happened, and it can't happen again. The information was here. And it happened in the timeline of the weeks. And yet there was very clear information, even regretting that we were haunted, the minister here said to me, "Don't scare people." That's where this happened, and it can't happen again. We don't want the government with the political responsibility that it has to paint the place pink. I understand you can't say the exact term. But it would be fair, Prime Minister, if you would at least give information that some of us believe is that next summer the ammunition will be there, that it will take not a few days or weeks, but that it will take many months, maybe a whole year before the shipment takes place. And that's probably not information that calms people down. From your performance, it looked like it would be taken if not tomorrow, no later than the day after tomorrow. So let's just say that the ammo will still be there almost the whole year. And what measures the government wants to take so that these people can sleep peacefully. This should have been the political debate in the Chamber of Deputies, because the Chamber of Deputies bears the political responsibility. Of course, you carry it, too, and you answer to the Chamber of Deputies. Your MPs didn't allow the debate, so they rejected the political responsibility, which I think is alibis squared, and there's nothing to be done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u31	[[The Prime Minister approaches the speaker's desk.]] The President of the Fiala has been given priority rights, then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u32	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to join the debate anymore because almost everything was said. However, last time we opened the topic, we talked about the need to calm the citizens, that nothing like this will happen again, that nothing like this is happening anymore. This morning, we talked about the fact that they wouldn't drop off vans, but that their mothers were taking their children to school and kindergarten. This morning, we asked Mr. Prime Minister and Secretary of Defense through Tomio Okamura, and we weren't even told what was going on. I just want you to know what's going on. Currently, two municipalities are evacuating, which are closest to the warehouse. Schools and kindergartens in other villages are evacuating, and people go to school and kindergarten for their children to happen. I'm not saying this because, of course, it's right, but I'm saying this because the situation is not simple and that it deserves our attention and deserves great attention. And perhaps it is, Prime Minister, also on the Security Council of the State. I don't know if people are calling here to see if any shrapnel is going through every minute. Those are the things that we should take care of, that we should ensure. So let's talk about it and not just let it go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u33	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have visited the premises. I would never dare paint the situation pink. I never would have dared to take it from any time point of view. This will be a problem for the state over the next few years, because even if we manage to transport the ammunition, we will have a long-term bailout of the compound. I just want to point out that I was the first to publish the overall range of ammunition stored, which can actually reach up to 15,000 tons of ammunition. 15,000 tons of ammo in this compound. So there's no way anyone in the government is painting the situation pink, they don't want to put it down. The government has been doing this repeatedly, and it has been dealt with and will be dealt with by the Security Council of the State. It's handled by the Home Office. I want to assure all Members that in no way do we underestimate this situation. It is a serious safety risk and adequate methods and adequate procedures need to be chosen. And if part of the population is evacuated, it is undoubtedly based on the decision of the Police of the Czech Republic to intervene. It's in his jurisdiction. I presume the House will be informed through the Ministry of the Interior of what further developments are in this area. I just want to point out the fact that the ammunition wasn't stored there in May or June, it wasn't stored there last month. We're dealing with a problem that we inherited, and we're going to wonder how it could have happened without adequate crisis plans, alternative solutions, places to store the ammunition. So I'm sure it's true. But I'm not gonna tell you the deadline for the ammo to be taken. I didn't even say that at a meeting with the citizens of Vlachovic and Vrbětic simply because it will depend on the state in which ammunition is found in individual warehouses, which are several tens. There are dozens of buildings where ammo is stored all over the premises. The compound's extensive. At this point, they must be thoroughly examined, examined, and this will only be possible when the spontaneous explosions have ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-000-000.u35	Since there is nothing we can vote on at this stage and there are no other applications, I will also excuse Mr Stupčuk from 11 to 12 hours for personal reasons and Mr Josef Novotný from today and tomorrow for health reasons and Mr Pavera between 9 and 11.30 for personal reasons. That's some apologies. We'll continue with the fixed point number
