ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 270/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Svatopluk Němeček, the Minister of Health, will present the proposal. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you, as a representative of the petitioner, the proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Protection of Public Health and its related laws. The proposal represents a comprehensive revision of the law in relation to changes in the legal order in recent years as well as certain requirements of application practice. One of the main objectives of the amendment is to bring the Act on the Protection of Public Health into line with the Administrative Code and other laws, in particular the Act on Chemicals, the Trade and Education Act, the Act on Social Services, the Act on Health Services and the Act on Specific Health Services. In particular, this objective is linked to the relatively large extent of the amendment. Furthermore, the proposal defines the facts of administrative offences in the area of public health protection. Another essential purpose of the proposal is to reduce the bureaucratic burden on people, particularly in the field of health protection at work. The bill complements the area of health promotion aimed at preserving, improving and developing individual and public health and healthy lifestyles to a wider extent than it has so far. In this context, the tasks of the Ministry of Health and Regional Hygiene Stations are being revised and individual regions are also involved in solving the task in this area. In particular, measures to protect against the introduction of highly contagious infectious diseases from abroad are complementary to the area of protection against the emergence and spread of infectious diseases. The definition of regular vaccination shall be inserted and the obligation of the establishment entrusted with the care of persons of 15 years of age on the basis of the court's decision shall be added to ensure that regular vaccination is carried out. The follow-up amendment to the Criminal Code also responds to the findings of the decision-making activities of the courts in this area and specifies the specific facts relating to regular, special and exceptional vaccinations and other obligations of persons to prevent the emergence and spread of infectious diseases. In the field of health protection at work, in addition to the already mentioned significant reduction of bureaucratic burden, they are adjusted on the basis of knowledge of the frequency of occupational diseases in the second risk-free category of employer's obligation and the authorisation of public health authorities, including the right to impose the objectiveization of the actual burden rate by risk factors. It is also worth mentioning that the regulation, in accordance with the Directive of the European Union for the area of water intended for human consumption, addresses the authorisation of public health authorities to prohibit the use of water which does not meet the quality of drinking water and for which the possibility of granting a more moderate hygiene limit has already been exhausted. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that The Chamber of Deputies will identify with the necessary amendment of the Public Health Act and will allow the referral of the proposal to the next legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr David Kasal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only happy to take a short look at the Minister, who has made a comprehensive report on this amendment. I recommend the release to the next reading, and it will be discussed by the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. At this point, I am registering a single application, and this is Mrs Soňa Marková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear colleagues, my dear government, this amendment of the law really is very broad is a testimony to what has been said here by the translator. I would like to take the liberty of touching the two problems that this law also contains, and which will probably need to be dealt with in some way on the committee afterwards and come to the conclusion that this law has no mistakes at all. The first heading of the problem concerns the proposed amendment of § 53 para. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) (e) and § 71 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) the Act on the Protection of Public Health, which, in the opinion of experts and especially of the Ombudsman, can promote stigmatisation and, consequently, discrimination against HIV positive persons. Information about the carriers of HIV and AIDS is not a common data on the health of a person, as this information leads to the stigmatisation of a person. In the surrounding area, this disease causes strong reactions, especially because people have it associated with risky sexual activity, drug use, death, and infection. Stigmatization of people can lead to stereotypes, stereotypes to prejudices and prejudices to discrimination. The Act therefore introduces an information obligation in § 53 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e). Originally, people infected with HIV had an obligation to communicate their carriers in social care facilities, which are considered primarily weekly staff members, homes for people with disabilities, homes for seniors and homes with a special regime. If this amendment had been approved, as it is written, as it would have been in the proposed form, HIV positive persons would have had to communicate their carriership in all social services facilities, namely -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u7	I apologise, Madame, but I will ask my fellow Members to keep their voice down so that we can hear what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u8	I understand that these are very marginal problems in terms of the entire Chamber of Deputies, but I would still like to draw attention to them. So in addition to listed social facilities under this law, there are 16 additional types of facilities, i.e. daycare centres, daily staff, sheltered housing, shelters, half-way homes, emergency assistance facilities, low-ground daily centres, low-floor facilities for children and youth, dormitories, therapeutic communities, social counseling, social therapy workshops, social rehabilitation services, early care centres, intervention centres and follow-up facilities. The explanatory memorandum to the amendment shows that the aim of this amendment is to align the wording of the Act on the Protection of Public Health with the terminology of the Social Services Act. The amendment brings not only terminological refinement, but just the substantial extension of the information obligation. An unclear definition of the conditions of the information obligation is also considered problematic. The relevant provisions of the Act refer to the information obligation upon admission to the establishment. However, the law does not specify what exactly is considered as the moment of adoption. If the practice would be such that persons would have to communicate their carriership before signing the contract, there is a concern that this information could be used for direct discrimination against those persons. The initiative to examine this paragraph of the law has been given by a civil association that provides advice and assistance to HIV positive persons, and it only records this year two cases where a person has been excluded from providing social services before signing the contract because of its carriership. The second uncertainty can then be seen in which person the carrier is to be told, because the law we are currently discussing speaks of the person providing care, and the implementing regulation, however, already speaks of the doctors of the social care institution and stresses that in these institutions the reception and treatment of natural persons is treated in a similar way to the admission of natural persons to medical facilities. So here the person who communicates carriership should be clearly defined in the law and not in the implementing regulation. At least that's Mrs. Ombudswoman's opinion. Furthermore, it also concerns its position and the specially established information obligation, which seems redundant to it, because persons who use the social service must submit an assessment of their health status before signing a social service contract. There is also talk about the situation around sensitive data and there is also talk about the problem of regulation and carriership, infectiveness, etc. In addition to this information obligation, we also see another problem in compulsory testing, which is regulated by § 71 para. Article 4 (1) (a) e) because the proposed legislation introduces compulsory testing for the presence of HIV in certain special cases into the Czech legal system. At present, this testing is mandatory, even without the consent of a person, only for pregnant women, for persons with impaired consciousness, for whom the test is important for differential diagnostics, for persons who have been accused of a crime of sexual illness, and for those who are forced to be treated for sexual illness. The amendment adds to the law another group of persons - persons who are suspected of being infected and who have been ordered to carry out the examination by an enforceable decision of the public health authority. So there is also a problem here, and I think it is necessary for us to deal with this matter, as well as for the fact that this provision does not actually introduce compulsory testing. Therefore, if I conclude this problem, the proposed amendment to the Public Health Act extends the information obligation for HIV positive persons and introduces mandatory testing for the presence of HIV virus in certain cases and this can be considered problematic. So much for Mrs. Ombudswoman's opinion. And now I'd still be dealing with a problem that has nothing to do with the first one. This law also amends the chemical law as discussed here, and here I received comments from experts who see problems in two circles, and this is first of all the protection of disinfectant, disinsectation and deratisation, when the problem is seen in unifying the requirements for the expertise of persons who are entitled to fumigate with biocidal and pesticide products, and the conditions of their use. The law only deals with the treatment of biocidal products. There is a contradiction with EU regulations and there is a requirement that what is thus written in the amendment to this law should be extended. [[17,00 hours]] First of all, it is Section 56 of the Act, which refers to the possibility of using only those products which are placed on the market in accordance with a specific legislation. It's a very complicated thing. I think it is enough to discuss this law in detail at second reading, and therefore on the committee, before the second reading on the committee. Basically, the conclusion on the problem of the chemical law - given that it is health protection at work, protection disinsectation and deratisation of fumigations should be adapted regardless of whether a biocidal or pesticide product is used. The same expertise should be required to work with both biocidal and pesticide products. It is very difficult, yet I hope that we can cope with this in some way within the Committee. The second heading then applies to the change necessary to the technical amendment of § 44a, b, § 58 and 61 and this also applies to the chemical law. Thank you for your attention, because it wasn't really very interesting. Thank you very much, though.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Sona Marková. We'll continue the discussion. Mr Leoš Heger is a member of the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I just wanted to say in general and briefly that this is a key law for sanitary services, which in itself is extremely complex, because it covers the whole issue in one code. I wanted to support the law, but I wanted to draw attention to the complexity, because there are a number of technical things, as my previous speaker has shown here, that she demonstrated well. I wanted to point out that it is necessary for this law to be discussed properly in detail, so that something is not neglected. In any case, it would not be appropriate and, in principle, it is not necessary, even if this is an exceptional matter, to shorten the time limits for discussion. It is certainly possible to expect some reactions from the public, because the law opens up a very delicate issue of noise hygiene. There have already been some voices from people who would like optional vaccinations that may be heard. So it's in order for the law to be dealt with with with a sufficient time limit. [[There's constant noise in the hall.]] I might still apply with a point of fact, but by standing here, I'm gonna use that time at once. About what Mrs Marková said here about the issue of HIV and the support of Mrs Ombudsman to the demands of people who revolve around this issue. I have a great deal of understanding for these issues concerning human rights and patient protection and their privacy and data protection. On the other hand, I just need to remind you how difficult the problem is, because we have actually witnessed two very unpleasant episodes of psychiatric patients in recent weeks, especially the other one in Žďár was very, very serious. And even as these cases were reported, there was some pressure on psychiatrists from the Ombudsman's office to tighten up the respect and protection of human rights. So the opposite of what the media and the public are calling for today, so that the rights become a little looser and the supervision of patients gets bigger. I am not saying this as a criticism of what Mrs Marková has put forward here, but I am merely saying this as proof of how difficult this issue is sometimes in these preventive matters. Otherwise, I will definitely support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u11	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. We will continue the discussion - Mr. Svoboda is reporting for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u12	Thank you for the floor. Have a good day. I would also like to say first that this is a law which we will certainly support for the procedure for second reading. But it is a law that will actually require very intensive work in the health committee. It is a standard that is immutable, which we must do, because we are really behind in these many things, but it will be very contradictory, and there will certainly be a conflict of views between health professionals, human rights defenders, various civic activities. The issue opened by colleague Marková is only one part of the issue, which is very complex and very problematic, because it is very difficult to balance what is the protection of personal rights and the protection of the entire society. Let me just remind you that we are absolutely clear on the issues of major epidemics and their spread, where all human rights go aside, but we are still a country that, for example, has already been mentioned by Mrs Marková - an AIDS epidemic at risk because we are still acting very, very unlearned and irresponsible. I think that we will have to deal with these issues very closely and in a very difficult way. Just for the margo of the whole problem, I'm going to open up the question of the risk to all attending doctors in medical institutions. Let me just remind you that I used to work abroad myself, where patients were admitted with this diagnosis. The measures taken during their treatment and surgery are very, very essential and we don't actually have them, because if you know or don't know, the patient may not have HIV tested in the delivery. And it's a big problem not only for her, for her child, but also for the attending staff from the last cleaning lady to the attending physician.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u13	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. It was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. Yes, please. Mr. Kostřica. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would really like to respond as a doctor and support the words of Mr Svoboda in particular, who mentioned the enormous risks. I myself operated on three patients who were HIV positive. I know it's very problematic. I took the part because I didn't want to affect my subordinates somehow. I think that's really one of the things that Mrs. Ombudswoman probably hasn't been able to appreciate. If we actually approach it in this way, we should treat each patient as if it were HIV positive. [[The noise in the room is getting stronger.]] And the other thing is, I remember when it was said that hepatitis B, which is also a viral disease, could only be transmitted by blood, contact, later found that it was possible to transfer this hepatitis through the conjunctiva. It is not excluded that HIV disease will also need to be countered in this way in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u15	I thank Mr Rom Kostřic. Is there anyone else for the debate? Yes, Mrs Soňa Marková in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u16	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to stir up the debate on HIV positive, because this is just about extending the information obligation to other facilities in social services, not medical facilities. This is about discussing something completely different. The point is whether the extension of our responsibilities to the social services I was talking about cannot lead people to be excluded from those social services. Not about a medical facility, but I was talking about social services. So that we don't get involved unnecessarily in discussions that have nothing to do with this. And it certainly has nothing to do with the terrible tragedy of the psychiatric patient. We could talk more about the reform of psychiatric care, which, in a way, at one time looked like we were going to release all the patients from the institutions to the public and leave them to their fate, and we are not going to take care of them. Some time ago, this was what it looked like when the reform was discussed. So it has nothing to do with it. All I wanted was for us to think about some things more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-003-016.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Sona Marková. I don't see anyone else, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? It's not. Mr. Rapporteur? It's not. Because there is no interest in the final words - has there been no proposal to return, to reject it, Mr rapporteur? Yes, it is. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Health. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. It is therefore the only proposal for a vote. We will take the vote. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. I checked you out. Please log in with your ID cards. The commandment of the Health Committee will be decided in the vote by order number 23, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 23, from 148 in favour of 147, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health. The time limit for the hearing shall be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 16. The next item is:
