ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u1	48. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to ratification amendment article. 8 The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court adopted on 10 June 2010 at the Rome Statute Review Conference in Kampala /German Press 161/ - First Reading Please have Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek present the opening words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u2	Thank you. Have a good afternoon. This is therefore a press of 161, a government proposal by which Parliament is to give its consent to the ratification of Article 8 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. So let me ask the House to discuss this change at first reading, which has actually been prepared for quite a long time. Let me just remind you that the change concerns the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which is based in The Hague and is entitled to judge individuals for genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. This means that if the State is unable to prosecute these crimes alone or for some other different reason, then the International Criminal Court was created, which is prepared for these types of crimes - genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity - to judge. I know that some of you remember that similar types of crimes were tried in the past without this International Criminal Court because they were tribunals that were created ad hoc. In this way it was created for crimes in Yugoslavia, it was an ad hoc tribunal. That wasn't a permanent tribunal. Or, for example, in Lebanon, when Hariri was killed, the Prime Minister, who was blown up by an explosive in his car, was also set up by a special tribunal in The Hague, but that was not permanent. Today we have a permanent International Criminal Court, which really focuses only on the crimes I have listed. In this court, what has been modified and regarding this change, I will try to explain it in some way to make it clear what the substance of the regulation is. Simplifies the fact that crimes between states are crimes, even if such behaviour is used within the state. This means that today it was so that, for example, chemical weapons were not allowed to be used between countries, and special chip shells and the like were not allowed to be used. However, if such charges were used inside the state, for example, against terrorists, it was evaluated differently, because experts said it was sometimes the only way to intervene. Here were the differences between what was allowed nationally and what existed as crimes committed in negotiations between states. I repeat: they are poisons, chemical weapons, and splinter bullets or types of these special charges that have been tolerated in national matters. In fact, the point now is that, after a long time, it should be that acts that are criminal in an international armed conflict should also be criminal at national level. This is actually the result of the negotiations that have taken place and which ultimately led to the same view that the difference that has been made here for a long time should not be made in the future. And that's the adjustment we should be dealing with here. This is essentially what we should now consider in the committees and assess this regulation of the Rome Statute. This is, in fact, the content of what I am presenting and what I would like the House Committees to discuss. So maybe that's enough for the first reading. I don't want to stretch it out. It could be enough to introduce this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u3	Thank you, Minister. Before I give the rapporteur's word for first reading, we must vote on the proposal to amend the rapporteur. It was originally designated by Mr Milan Šarapatka, who will not be rapporteur. There is a proposal for a new rapporteur, Mrs Jana Fischerová. I am opening the vote on the proposal to amend the rapporteur for this reading to Mrs Jana Fischerová. Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a 72-order vote. 173 Members are registered, for 127, against no one. I note that the proposal has been adopted and the new rapporteur for this press is Mrs Jana Fischerová. I ask her to take the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u4	Thank you for the floor. I will say the utmost that this press was delivered to Members and Members on April 1st, or April 1st. Oh, please, it's serious, it's okay. As the Foreign Minister said, the long-term concept of foreign policy in our state is to build an international criminal justice system. Since 2012 we also have our representative, or Czech judge. That would be all in short, and I recommend that you refer this House press 161 to second reading and, like the Organizing Committee, I recommend ordering the Foreign Committee to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u5	Thank you, Madame. Before I open the general debate, further apologies. Mrs Langšádlová apologizes for today's meeting from 18.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Marek Benda apologizes for today's 19 o'clock meeting. Thank you. I am now opening a general debate in which I have Mrs Konečná signed up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Honest colleagues and colleagues. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for the presentation of this treaty, but not one of them pointed out that in this Treaty, the Czech Republic negotiated at the Review Conference a condition which included in the amendments to Article 8 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court the provision that the ban on missiles which are easily spread or flattened in the human body, such as missiles with a hard cape, which do not completely cover the core or is perforated by a cut, does not concern police activities in the context of law enforcement and public security, which do not constitute direct participation in armed conflict, such as the rescue of hostages and the destruction of civilian aircraft hijackers. These two situations are listed here as an example of law enforcement and public security. These are, however, the concepts under which we could basically include any police activity. And I really don't see the only reason the police should be allowed to use these missiles to ensure public safety and not just in certain specified situations. [[18.30 hours]] From the text of the Rome Statute, the equation between the intent to cause man excessive suffering and the ban on the use of smashing missiles is obvious. We respect the ban on inhumane, cruel treatment and torture throughout Europe, in relation to all, including criminals. No one dares, no country, doubt this ban. No one makes exceptions. But at a time when the perpetrator is as serious as the criminal, or even less serious, it will be possible to use missiles against them, which will cause them suffering like no other, just on the basis of an exception for our police officers in the Rome Statute. We should respect these principles without reservation. I cannot support the proposal to ratify the amendment to the Rome Statute, subject to this condition, for the reasons set out above. If we want to negotiate something beyond that, we should do so only in closely specified cases, but such a broad concept is unacceptable to me today. Indeed, police activity in the context of law enforcement and public security is almost all the police are doing today, and I would not like to see these missiles being used in unjustified cases, such as the restoration of public order or in acts of civil disobedience. That is why I am making a motion to reject this change. And maybe I could just teach the government that it would be fair to negotiate something that couldn't be abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u7	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant if he is interested in the final words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u8	Yes. I would, however, intercede for the House to discuss this proposal for change. As far as I understand it, Mrs Konečná does not actually agree with the Czech Republic having an exception to what is being proposed here. Now I don't feel like an expert on the use of these special splinter bullets by the police, for example, and so on, even though I confess, I have learned a lesson from an expert who explained to me why, in the event of, for example, interference with terrorists, these types of weapons or projectiles are supposedly the only ones that can be used. I would recommend that Members listen to this argument, possibly in committees, to get to know it, because I am probably not an expert here to provide you with vital information. In principle, I am well-convened by the opinion of Mrs Konečný. I also think it's hard to compare myself to the fact that these weapons are being used against anyone, so I'm not going to argue with her very much. Assessment of the extent to which the experts and experts are right that the Czech Republic would like to have an exception here, I would really leave that to you. I think we have committees for that, we have second reading. We might have come to the debate in the next round after we've been through this. So I would like us to start discussing this draft amendment to the Rome Statute and to deal with these things and to clarify them during the debate, the debates in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u9	I thank the Minister and ask the rapporteur if she is interested in speaking with the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u10	Thank you. I agree with this procedure, that is to say, let go of the second reading and discuss properly the outcome of the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u11	Yes, thank you. We will therefore now consider the vote on the motion to reject the government proposal. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. Initiating vote on the motion... I'm sorry, there's a check-out request. So I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards again. So I am opening the vote on the motion to reject the present proposal. Initiating vote now. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 73, to which 135 Members are entered. For 30, against 81. I'm of the opinion that the motion to dismiss has been rejected. Therefore, we are going to continue and we will now consider the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. So I'm taking the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Foreign Committee for discussion. [[Member of the Laudat is reporting for the floor.]] Okay, I'll let you out. I take it back, I'm canceling this vote. And please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u12	I'm sorry. Please, it's no big deal that you didn't notice me. It's okay. I just wanted to say, since this is where Mrs Konečná said what she said, I consider this to be an absolutely essential matter, and I wanted to suggest that the Security Committee should deal with it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-005-048.u13	Okay. We therefore have two proposals on which we will vote individually. I am opening the vote on the submission of the proposal to the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 74, to which 140 Members are enrolled, when 139 are in favour. [[against no one]] I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to order the motion tabled for discussion to the Security Committee. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 75, to which 143 Members are entered. For 140, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee and the Security Committee. This is the end of the discussion on this point. Approaching item number
