ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u1	Good morning, honourable Members. I don't see any members of the government here yet... I see the Minister of Transport now. Initiating another meeting on the 10th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. I'm asking you all to sign up with ID cards and possibly tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. Mrs Kateřina Konečná has a replacement card number 1. First of all, allow me to apologize for not attending today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies: Mrs Markéta Adamová from 13 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Andrle Sylor Augustin Karel within 10 o'clock for reasons of work, Vice-President Jan Bartošek for reasons of work at the afternoon hearing, Mr Petr Bendl for reasons of health, Mr Jiří Běhounek for reasons of health until 10.30 pm, Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel for reasons of work in the morning, Vice-President Petr Gazdík for personal reasons, Mr Pavel Holík is on a foreign journey, Mr Jaroslav Klaška for Šrámek of work, Mr Jiří Koubek for reasons of work until 10.30 pm, Mrs Lorencová for health reasons of the Milan day, Mr Miloš Petera without giving reason, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková for reasons of work, for Pavel Polčák foreign travel as well as Mr Antonín Seďa, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg for reasons of health Vyzula of health Rostislav, Mr. Mr kolovratník has a replacement card number 6. They apologize to the members of the government: Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Vice-President of the Government within 16 hours for work reasons, Daniel Herman within 12 hours for work reasons, Mr Milan Chovanec for work reasons, Minister Michaela Marksová for work reasons as well as Minister Jan Mládek, Minister Svatopluk Němeček is on a foreign journey, I think in Kiev, Minister Martin Stropnickýý also apologizes for work reasons and Minister Lubomír Zaorálek is on a foreign trip. Those are all the apologies that were delivered to me at the moment. Today we would start with points 78, then 110, then 74, 83, 79, 80, 82 and 48. These are House prints 81, 201, 172, 176, 82, 175, 156. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at paragraph 74, House Press 172, we are at the third reading, the legal time limits for its discussion are not fulfilled, so we cannot deal with it and we will have to include it on Friday. We would continue with points 71, 72, 73, 76, 77 and 81. These are drafts of laws at third reading because it is Wednesday morning and their legal deadlines are fulfilled. We would then continue with the items under the approved agenda of the meeting. At 12:30 p.m., according to our approved programme, there is a fixed election point, namely points 85, 86 and 87. Let me remind you that we are also occupied by points 93, 95, 94, 95, 44, 43 and 32. Apologies - Mrs Zelienková apologizes between 10.30 and 11.30 hours for work reasons. Now the agenda of the meeting is announced first by the President of the ANO Membership Club, then by Mrs Jana Černochová. I ask President Faltýnek to take the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman. Just a little while longer. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind. We have many fixed points, and if we are to deal with those proposals that will be tabled now, I would like your attention. I'm asking you to calm the situation down. Mr. Chairman, wait a little longer. If you have a debate other than the agenda of the meeting, please transfer it to the galley. Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to ask for a firm inclusion of a new point in the meeting, which would be called the Proposal for a shortening of the time limits for the bills under discussion. I propose to include the item as the first point of the morning before the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u3	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. When I was here yesterday at 14:00 saying that we were witnessing the fourth act of the Star Wars, some of you were laughing, some of you were looking seriously and maybe thinking about my words. What happened yesterday in the afternoon proves that, for incomprehensible reasons, representatives of the government coalition are afraid, and the Chamber of Deputies deliberately want to conceal some of the information we are learning about the Ministry of Justice regarding public procurement at the Ministry of Justice, only and only from the media. If the Chamber of Deputies is to fulfil its audit role, and I firmly believe that all those sitting here want the Chamber of Deputies to perform its audit role, then I want to learn this information from the Minister here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and not from Czech Television. So I suggest that you include a point under the title Information of Minister War on the situation at the Ministry of Justice and the public contract of so-called electronic bracelets as item 2 on today's agenda, and I very politely ask you all not to behave cowardly and raise your hand to us, even to ourselves, so that we can learn the information on which we have the right here from the Minister's mouth and not mediated through the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u5	Yes, thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u6	Hello, thank you for your word. On behalf of the two MPs, the ODS and the TOP 09, I object to the vote on the inclusion of a new item by President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u7	Yes, so we cannot vote on this proposal due to the veto of two MPs. Who's next on the agenda? Nobody. We therefore have only the motion made by Madam President Faltýnek to vote on the veto. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u8	Mr President, allow me, in accordance with Paragraph 54 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 6 raise, on behalf of 47 Members of the ANO Members' Club, an objection to the proposal to complete the approved agenda of the House meeting presented by Mrs Černochová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u9	Thank you. So we have a second veto, so we're not changing the agenda. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u10	Of course, I respect the proposal, but it's really smiling how afraid you are of the debate. Last week we witnessed the media appearance of your president, who said: I met, both of the ladies from the Justice Department gave me an explanation, we solved it, everything's cool, everything's working. I still respected that, because both ladies were nominated by one political movement or one coalition party. [[9.10 hours]] Yesterday or since Monday yesterday, another crisis at the Justice Department. And once again, I'm told that the Minister of Finance will meet with the deputy nominated for the ČSSD and the Minister nominated for the YES and he will deal with it. This is quite an incomprehensible situation for me. At a time when this is a conflict in the leadership of the ministry, in which different political parties are represented, both customary and sound common sense says that this is a role for the Prime Minister and not for the Minister of Finance. I learned so differently yesterday that the Deputy Minister of Finance had already called off today and discussed that he had described the system to him, allegedly - I am saying, because I have it from the media - allegedly the Minister of Finance told him that his progress was in order. We just don't know what the truth is. And here is an opportunity for us to learn so that the Minister or the Minister of Finance can tell her story, or the Minister of Finance, or the Prime Minister can comment on it. Well, we won't. Well, let's leave it for interpellation tomorrow. You can't avoid it anyway. But then it is clear that the secretary's wannabe-clear position is not so clear when he is afraid of parliamentary debate. If it were so simple and unambiguous, you would not protect her from the debate, not only the opposition, but perhaps some coalition MPs. All right. Of course, by not discussing it today, that's not gonna solve the problem, that's not gonna work out, we're not gonna be quiet. We'll ask somewhere else. We're gonna ask about the next diapers, we're gonna ask about the committees, we're gonna ask about the interpellings. I think it's a rather non-standard situation where the Secretary of State dismisses a coalition deputy. Now, remember, the ANO movement said, "we don't want coalition deputies." The moment Mrs. Marvanová left, they said, "Well, that's our coalition deputy," and actually, she switched it in a second. So it denied itself, and they themselves return with their practice to a proven system - I do not criticize it - to a proven system where all coalition parties are represented in ministries, if that is what they want. There's nothing wrong with that. You guys have been saying it's wrong all along, and I'm gonna play the little prognostic. Now the Social Democrats will be wearing their proposals for a new deputy and we will hear: "That is not a good expert, that again. We don't think he's the one who can handle it. We really want someone very good there." We've seen it in another ministry. We don't really care, but we want to hear I would ask the President of the House of Deputies not to yell at me. ... hisproposal. So don't worry about it. We want to deal with this. The situation is not simple, it is a key resort. After four and a half months, the original lead is in ruins. It's not the secretary's fault, it's only the bad deputy. That's the kind of good king and the bad counselors, the kind of favorite fairy tale. Well, then we're going to wait to see if the Social Democrats find a well-founded person, or we're going to hear "that's not the right expert, we're imagining it completely differently" again. When the ministry set it up, let's see an opening press conference on the record, as the resort took over, as they stood next to each other, and the secretary said, "These are the real experts. Now it's gonna work, now you're gonna see the speed." We see this speed - not one proposal submitted to the Chamber of Deputies and the original leadership, which was so good and well constructed from so many experts, is essentially ruined. As we understand - from those media outputs only - someone's opinion is different from the Minister's and ends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u11	Thank you. Now they are signed in by Minister Helena Válková, then Mrs Černochová, then by President Okamura. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the substance of the matter is somewhere else. We would really like to work - Thank you for a smile or a laugh, because you yourself accuse that there are no drafts of some laws in the Chamber of Deputies. [[Laughter explosion from the benches on the right.]] There's work to be done on these laws. I think that even the fact that you don't have them here shows a certain process other than that which was typical of the past, when you have passed laws that we all have the opportunity to see for ourselves now, and which we need to correct, sometimes quite laboriously, see the related laws to the new Civil Code. And I could go on. So the reason why your proposal was brought here is about something else. We have a proper time and space and a reserved meeting where I will stand here before you and I will have to answer your inquisitive and less inquisitive questions, and that is interpelation. I see that you are constantly attempting to report negatively to the Justice Department and its management as a targeted campaign not only against me but also against the ANO movement. And don't be surprised that we choose legal means to prevent such campaigns. So that's one. Secondly, I would like to hear one former minister who would accept someone who, because of his opposition to the procedure of his minister, runs to the Anti-Corruption Police and announces there that non-standard steps are suspicious enough for him to consider it right for the anti-corruption police to investigate them. Not to mention that he's my former student who knows me from my student years, who I've been seeing over and over at different jobs, who I've had a high opinion of, and who well had to know that I've never been able to demand anything that could seem suspicious or less, and make the impression that it's a non-standard act. [[applause and laughter on the right]] And even that would be - not every minister, but some ministers would be able to accept it, but it's hardly a circumstance when I announce the anti-corruption police - he said "it wasn't a criminal announcement, it was just an announcement," I don't know what he meant - after I make the announcement, I come out, I take the phone and I call the People's Press to tell the whole story. So, cui bono? I'm asking. Probably in favor of those who are interested in just reporting negatively everything that is happening at the Ministry of Justice, and of course suppressing everyday work that is not seen, which lies in the higher controls of the enforcement authorities, which consists in the preparation of laws, which, of course, contains such small things as the start of prison reform, which you will be assessing here, is not really the reform that you would have imagined. But he who is at the head of the resort has his responsibility, has to settle accounts, and therefore has the right to choose his closest colleagues - first of all. And secondly, if these coworkers act in a way that goes against not only the legal custom, but also the normal moral attributes of a standard citizen's behavior, they say goodbye to such a deputy. That is what I have been entrusted with, and from that I bear my political, legal, but also budgetary responsibility, and I therefore have the right to take such a step. Moreover, it is not true that social democracy as a coalition party does not even know what is happening. I do not know and I am not responsible for assessing who Deputy Štern spoke to in his talks with social democracy, but, for example, on the Czech Justice server, he quite openly admitted that he led such negotiations on the weekend. So it must have been obvious at least to some members of social democracy what was happening and what was being prepared. But I honor the coalition agreements, and I would never call off the Deputy Director who was nominated for social democracy just because he criticized my procedures. However, I am obliged to withdraw him because he has done his particular act to cause the negative scandal of the resort entrusted to the ANO movement in my person, which I have run for them, and I therefore bear both political and legal responsibility. Then I must act as a minister, not as a party member or as someone who honors coalition agreements in those intensities and in the interpretation of how the opposition interprets them here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u13	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. I have duly signed up for both factual and preferential rights entered into the debate, and if you want to hold a discussion other than the subject that has been presented here on the agenda, please transfer your discussions to the frontstage so that the Minister can finish his speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. All I want to do is manifest my readiness to speak, to say my opinion, to state my position and to explain my decision. After all, it's always been here. I reject such interpretation and assessment that I despise the Chamber of Deputies, I do not attend committees, as I have heard. That's not true. And if it sounds at this speaker's table, and I suspect that in a few moments a criticism will be heard, so I say in advance, I am at your disposal, but I prefer a defined time, which would not take us the time necessary to discuss the laws, when you yourself criticize that the laws are being negotiated lately and that, for example. The Justice Department hasn't made any laws yet. It's not like that. Of course, some proposals have already gone into the review procedure, but the Chamber of Deputies did not really get them, and you know better than I do, for example. You failed to enforce the state's attorney's bill, and I'm not sure if, even if the government hadn't fallen, you would have achieved that success in 2013. But it's not my place to judge again. To conclude, it is not a lack of courage, it is not a lack of openness, it is not arrogance, it is not a contempt for your questions, it is the exact opposite. I want to answer them, but on the spot and at the time to do so, and I do not want to delay our actions, which should be working, constructive and conducted in the interests of the best possible approval and quickest approval of the necessary laws, unnecessary political scheming and intrigue, which I see, in particular the opposition is accompanied at every step by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u15	Thank you, Minister. In fact, Mrs Černochová, on her proposal. Please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u16	Peace of peace, amen. I would just like to point out, please, that when the chairman of the ANO club suggested the veto, he did not have the necessary number of signatures at his disposal at the time, as is customary. I suppose he's looking for the signatures now, but there's a reason that he should perform once more, and that the veto suggested, because he has to float the veto when the signatures, through Vice-President YES, you have. You know, I think what the Secretary of State said here is even worse than what we've been thinking. [[Noise in the hall, applause from several Members.]] It just seems to me that even they don't want to wear the fact that there are only one-sided opinions, that the only people who can speak here at this point are people with priority rights or I as the plaintiff and that other colleagues are being tricked into asking questions. And if I could tell my opinion about what I only know from the media, it seems to me that it's okay that Deputy Secretary Štern wouldn't let her get to know any documentation. You know, it's probably the same, there's a whole series of mayors between us. If the council of the city, the council of the municipality would delegate to the selection committee someone from the mayor's office, someone from the mayor's office, and then the mayor would only want all the documents because he's the principal. Can you imagine any of us mayors trying to do that to somebody like the Secretary of State tried to do to Mr. Štern? I can't imagine it, and that's why I want to ask you one more time, withdraw the signatures, withdraw the proposal. Let's talk about this, let's agree at the level of the political club presidents that we're going to spend an hour on this issue, and we're going to really try to figure out what the problem at the Justice Department is. In any case, I have no choice but to recommend to the Minister that she declare a transparent selection procedure for a psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have now signed up with the priority rights of President Okamura, Fiala, Kalousek and Kováčik, then there are factual remarks on the course of the debate, and if they do not concern the agenda of the meeting, then I cannot allow you to do anything other than the agenda of the meeting. In the order I read, with priority rights. I hope for the agenda, but with priority rights, I have to go to anything. President Tomio Okamura, President Fiala will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Dawn movement is concerned, we are normally on these matters, virtually. we have never behaved in any way offensively and we have not participated in any political games of the ODS, TOP 09 versus other political parties, but unfortunately I have to speak here with a few questions or comments to the Minister because I have actually recorded some illogical statements here that I cannot agree with at all and we must reject them immediately during the Dawn movement. First of all, who the coalition chooses as deputy ministers is really your business, Madam Secretary, and I'm not Mr. Kalousek's defense attorney, but he stomped right at the beginning of the last parliamentary term and said that the Deputys will agree on their own, and if someone is going to slip him another one, he just won't, and he's just not gonna be in control. Other Deputys just won't be there. That's how I'd do it. Nobody's gonna dictate to me if I'm gonna be a minister. And either I have a position like that, and I'm gonna make it clear, or I'm gonna have some, pardon me, some people put in there, and then I'm gonna get in their tow. I've run an international firm for 18 years, and this couldn't happen to me. This is a mistake right in the introduction from my point of view. Argumentatives, and I will argue really factually here. I wish you all to resolve the marast in the Czech Republic as quickly as possible. It is not possible for a minister of such an important department, and any minister, to take this as an argument. I don't think so. The second thing is that the Minister here was talking about the opposition, but that has really touched me, because we are also in opposition, the Dawn movement, and I think there is another opposition party that is not involved. We're not going against you in any way. We're not playing political soup here. The Dawn movement has always tried to speak correctly to you, even to the YES movement, and what we said we would put a hundred days on you to work, I did. That's what we did. When a hundred days have passed, we try to express ourselves in substance towards you. But for Secretary Válková to throw us in the same group with someone else we don't have anything to do with, I'm sorry, so I'd like to start separating things a little bit. Now I'm in a group with Mr Kalousek, I'm in a group with Mr Nečas, who is being investigated, and I hope, Madam Secretary, that you have the discernment to separate other political parties from others a little bit. [[Laughing in the hall, applause from YES]] That makes me feel very slandered, and very rude, and I would ask you to explain. I don't think that's ideal. I'm saying again, we'll continue to be things. We still wish you all the best, but please don't lump us in with someone we're not. We've always treated you right. And we'll always be material. [[9.30 hours]] Next, you were talking about the job of letting you work. I'm sure we want to get to work, but here I want to ask specifically about the executors' issue. We have been proposing the implementation of executor territory here last month, which is consistent with your statement, and with your plan. And they've been gone for four months. We also heard you at the seminar that our MP Marek Černoch held for the executors. You said it was a government priority. She did, but after four months, we don't see a government proposal or we don't know about it in any way. And I think that if about a million people were fired here, the subject would really deserve to stop fighting here. And I want to ask you in this context, Madam Secretary, and please answer me. So when are we going to have a specific, comprehensive solution to the executors' problem on our desk? I don't care about any coalition fights about the Deputys or anything. You guys figure that out. That's what I said right from the start, as I would have done. Because when it gets bad at the very beginning, it's true in any company, then it's hard to chase it after that, because these people are anchoring and then they're creating some kind of bond. And I would follow up on what you were talking about -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u19	Mr President, I know you speak with priority rights. Still, I'd like to lead you to the point. I'd like us not to discuss this discussion where it doesn't belong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u20	Okay, thank you. So you were talking about controlling the executors. So I'm asking you what checks have been made. That was a very interesting point. How many have been done? What's the result of the checks? Because the subject of dealing with executors is the theme of Dawn, we are pushing it as well as a referendum and a direct democracy. Next thing you know, when you talk about the job, Madam Secretary, you say it'll be time to work, but we're here last week completely... I was threatened when Minister Dienstbier told us that the legislative plan was to resolve the loan shark until 2017. Are you kidding me? It is said that the Government's legislative plan is a solution to usury until 2017, where Minister Dienstbier told us. So that's what I'd like to ask you again. So we were shocked because the resolution of loan shark practices and executors is a priority for us. So I'd like to ask you. The last question is, at least explain it to us if it's not a priority or if we're supposed to wait three years. But that means there will be new elections. And one last question. Ms. Marvanová on Czech Television said that the Ministry is under the influence of lobbyists from the Bar and the Executor Chamber. The question is. [[unintelligible]] I'd like you, Madam Secretary... In the meantime, you've been talking to the others, so I don't know if you've heard the questions or if you're even willing to answer us, but I was wondering if you could specify who's right. Whether or not Mrs. Ex-Deputy Marvanová, or how it is there, the Justice Department is under the influence of lobbyists from the Bar and the Executor Chamber. So that's all I wanted to say. I hope it was factual, but indeed úsvit must express itself for the first time on this subject in some way, because it is evident that it is escalating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u21	Thank you to President Okamur. Mr. ODS Chairman Petr Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor. A colleague of Kalousek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, you may expect me to attack you in some way, as was the result of your opening speech. I'm not gonna attack you, but I'm gonna try to explain some things to you. Relax on work, conspiracy, constructive atmosphere - these are words, wordings, sentences that remind me of something. And they remind me of a time I wouldn't want to go back to. There is one thing you have said, but I agree that it is necessary to work, that there is room for work. But be aware, Madam Secretary, that what this House has to do and what it does is also a function of control. And even the debate is the work to be carried out by Parliament. And we wanted to open the debate here because we have doubts, and reasonable doubts, about your work. And you are absolutely unnecessarily defending this dialogue, this debate, this work by Parliament. And what is the result of your obstruction? That we're still having this discussion, but only those with priority rights are holding it. We lead it in the form of your strange monologue and some of our responses, but we do not lead it as the Chamber of Deputies with the participation of all the Members who wish to comment on it, which would be right and logical in terms of the functions Parliament has. And the last thing I want to say to you, Madam Secretary, is that it is part of the Minister's work, and it is an essential part of ministerial competence, that includes personnel policy, the ability of teamwork, the ability to manage the office. And if you just get rid of two deputies for various reasons in four months who've become deputy for your work, it really raises questions about how you're able to run the resort, and who's really fine with everything at the Justice Department. And I can assure you of one thing. We have absolutely no interest in destabilizing the Justice Department, as you said here. We have no interest in harming anyone. On the contrary, we want the Ministry of Justice to work as best as possible. But precisely because we have doubts as to whether the Ministry of Justice can work well under your direction, we want nothing more than for you to explain your actions to us in Parliament's discussion, explain to us what is actually going on at the Ministry of Justice, how you are looking at it and how you can defend what you have done so far. I really do not understand why you are defending yourself through your political movement, because even defending your own actions before Parliament is part of the minister's work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u23	Thank you, Mr. Fial. Now, President Kalousek. Mr. Chairman Kováčik will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, for me, as a former civil servant, where we were beaten into the head that loyalty is one of the necessary prerequisites for qualifications, it is also an absurd notion that a subordinate civil servant is going to the police to turn in his minister. [[Fun in the hall.]] But please, times change, standards and patterns change with them. On this occasion, I can't remember the civil servant, I think I can name him, Mr. Michálek, who recorded his supervisor, ratted out. It cost that supervisor a political career. And even though it turns out that he didn't do anything in criminal proceedings, Mr. Michálek was celebrated, financially rewarded by the Anti-Corruption Fund with the participation of your chair of the movement. And to this extent he has become an indisputable person in the fight against corruption, that he was elected to the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in the first round, and with his inquisitive questions prevents you from working again as our colleague in the upper chamber. So I think it's... This is what I'm saying to think about, so that we realize what patterns and standards we ourselves are setting, and whether we're always measuring on a slightly different subway based on how we're politically suited. But I originally applied to another subject. I've reported that this discussion reminds me a little bit of last night's debate on parliamentary control over the Financial Analysis Service. And it can be generalized and combined in one sentence, and that is an absolute distaste for parliamentary control over executives. The Chamber of Deputies has two basic tasks with which voters elected us, the role of legislative and control. Yesterday we tried to convince you that the audit role over the Financial Analysis Service is nothing to fear either the Finance Minister or the Financial Analysis Service. But you just don't want parliamentary control because you wish to work, and you, Chamber of Deputies, don't look at us and don't talk. If the whole society is concerned about the situation at the Ministry of Justice, and it is, then the Chamber of Deputies simply has not only the right but also the duty to find out for what reasons. Why is that? We can argue. But until we submit this to a detailed parliamentary debate and ask the relevant questions and are able to speak out here and tell us our point of view, we will not know and we will resign from our constitutional duty to carry out parliamentary scrutiny. [[9.40 hours]] We, colleagues, especially opposition Members, cannot resign from this constitutional obligation because it is our job and it is our task with which the voters have invited us here. Therefore, President Faltýnek, through Mr President, I would like once again to ask you to withdraw the veto of 40 Members and allow this point to be discussed within this meeting. If you do not consider it and feel that the veto is quite appropriate, it is fair, colleagues, to say further developments. In agreement with President Schwarzenberg, Fiala and my colleague Stanjura, I would like to inform you that, in such a case tonight, President Hamáček will have a request for an extraordinary meeting with 40 signatures, which the President will have to convene on this subject within ten days, as the law says. We will consider the title of the special meeting point to make sure the Minister likes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u25	Now with priority rights, President Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I wish you a good morning, late, true, working, true, as it sounds. Maybe if we put that point in place, it's already over. The debate is still going on, in a plane that is, true, at the level of priority rights, or the right of a vast majority of Members and Members to comment on the matter is now denied, but on the other hand, I understand why the veto was filed. He wasn't quite lucky to have chosen the name of the point, in my opinion. After all, this is not only a situation in the Ministry of Justice and only, in quotation marks, caused by the firing of two deputy ministers, because it might even seem beneficial to mankind in a narrow view. I know both people, and I wouldn't associate with them, but that's a matter for the Secretary and Deputys. But it is a matter that concerns the entire government coalition, or at least its two biggest articles, namely social democracy and the ANO movement, and I see a kind of coalition dispute there. Therefore, I would like to rephrase the subject for discussion, but not only that the Minister should explain the details of why she fired the Deputy Minister, right or wrong, that is the competence of the Minister, but the point - I ask for attention now - I would call the Prime Minister's information on the situation at the Ministry of Justice and its solution, and I would like to propose it because it is a matter of hot interest not only to journalists, the public, a wider political spectrum, but it could result in a serious coalition crisis, so I will allow myself to place it as the first point today after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u27	Yes, thank you to President Kováčik. Since he checked in before 9:30 p.m., of course, I'm registering the motion as a voter. Now, Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u28	Thank you for the floor. I think it's a good thing they're making the tapes. Sometimes one has doubts whether it is useful, but I think it's a good thing that we can actually read what someone has said. In her speech, Minister Válková attacked the opposition and said that we wanted to destabilize it, that we were scandalizing it, we were going to the media. So let me try to remind you of the fact. First of all, you can look at the steno recording of our performances today - you won't find anything like that there. But I read in the media: ministryně Válková is an autocrat. Author of the statement of the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. The week before last, I read about the criticism of the Minister, which Hana Marvanová led in the media, who is certainly not a member of the opposition party, even though she was once, it must be admitted that she was once our member. This week, the deputy nominated ČSSD criticizes the Minister. Nor is he a member of genuine opposition right-wing parties. So the secretary complains that someone is attacking her for no reason, without evidence, accusing the opposition of the things that her chairman and her former Deputys are doing. So you can imagine for yourself whether the injustice of how the evil opposition hinders the Minister's good work corresponds to reality or not. We just want to discuss it. And I myself said that I don't know where the truth is, but that I was just quoting from the newspaper the statement of ex-Deputy Štern. If the secretary thinks that one of us who used to be a minister would have left the deputy to turn in the minister - well, he wouldn't have. We don't want to say that this is a common pattern of behavior, that the deputy doesn't agree with his minister or minister, so he runs to the police. Well, it's not. Don't put that in our mouths. We don't want to discuss that. If we wanted to debate this, the point would be called, for example. The reasons for the appeal of Deputy Štern. But they're clear to us. There are just things the deputy can't cross. If it was so serious and he thinks there's a suspicion, then he has to bear the consequences of his actions, which I do. It's perfectly logical to withdraw from office. I would like us to comment on what the opposition has actually said or done, critically, there is no problem with that, we are not saving the criticism either, but not that I will invent what the opposition has done, and then I will criticize it. I know it's a popular method, it looks good. You guys did it, and that, and I strongly disagree. So let me remind you, those last three weeks of media have always been unleashed by someone from the government coalition. He was never a member of the opposition. And the opposition is only asking because it doesn't sit there, nor at your meetings, nor at your coalition councils, where the truth is. We have offered you, Minister Válková, a chance to tell us what it is, as you see it. If anyone wants to stand up for ex-Deputies, they will have the opportunity to do so in the debate, and you will be able to respond. That's all. So next time, please criticize us for what we're really going to say or what we're really going to do, it's perfectly okay, we're ready for such criticism, or we're ready to defend our actions afterwards, but I'm not ready to take responsibility for being criticized by Hana Marvanová, Mr. Štern, or for your chairman saying that you're a carcrater. I really don't want to be responsible for that, and I can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u29	Thank you to the chairman of the ODS Club. This was the last one entered into this debate on the agenda. I see Prime Minister Faltýnek. Let me read the apologies from today's meeting. My colleague Podivínský apologizes from 9.50 to 11 o'clock, Mr Hamáček will not attend the meeting, then Mr Roman Kubíček will apologize for today's meeting from 14 to 16.15 o'clock. As for what my colleague Černochová said, I'm just saying that I've received a document with signatures of over 20, I haven't counted them, 20 is all I need, so I'll take it. As far as President Kováčik's proposal is concerned, it is voteable because no objection has yet been raised. Chairman Faltýnek reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u30	I'd like to ask for a 30-minute break on behalf of our club for a club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u31	Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm declaring a break for the ANO club meeting within 10.20 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u32	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. The break for the ANO club meeting is over. We have our agenda with one change that we can vote on, and that is the proposal of the President of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik, if he could briefly recapitulate him... It's the Prime Minister's information on the situation at the Ministry of Justice. It would be the first point after the fixed points. That's the only change that's been voted out at the moment on the basis of the debate that's been going on since 9:00. I'll check you out. [[Big move in the hall.]] I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'll have my colleagues know that the break is over. And once the number of applicants stabilizes, we will decide to extend the agenda in the next vote. [[Members are still coming to the hall.]] There's still a lot of movement, so I'll wait. [[Mr. Faltynek reporting.]] Okay, well, before the vote I didn't start, Mr. Faltýnek Club Chairman. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u33	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. I just have one sentence. Our MP will support Kováčik's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-000-999.u34	Thank you. We can decide in the voting order number 101 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of this extension of the programme. Anyone against it? Thank you. Voting order number 101, 148 for 147. The motion was accepted. We have extended the program to inform the Prime Minister of the situation at the Ministry of Justice. But that's not a point that's now up to date. We will proceed according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Today's first point is point number
