ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure, as amended /German Press 182/ - Second Reading I ask the Minister of Transport, under the authority of the Government, to present this press. Please. - Sorry, Mrs Nováková cancels her apology. He's present. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled regulates the partial and scope of the limited regulation of Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport water and energy infrastructure, which concerns the setting of the purchase price of non-built land, i.e. agricultural and forestry land, for the purpose of their contractual acquisition for the construction of transport infrastructure by the State. The existing wording of the Act contains in Section 3b the possibility to increase the price of such land by up to 100 per cent, the purpose being to motivate owners for their contractual sale in comparison with the official expropriation, and also for a quick procedure for accepting the offer - a higher price for quick acceptance of the offer. This amendment in the Act on Acceleration of Transport Infrastructure Construction has been effective since February 2013. However, practical experience in the application of Section 3b of the Act has shown that for various reasons, the amount of the bonus for agricultural and forestry land is not quite sufficient in view of the expected incentive effects. There are problems in property preparation during contract purchase of land, in some cases the contract purchase has even stopped since the law was effective. In particular, this concerns strategic communication R35 between Olomouc and Hradec Králové. The proposed proposal therefore includes an increase in the bonus for agricultural and forestry land in order to significantly strengthen the motivation for the voluntary sale of the necessary land and thus avoid delays in the property preparation of the buildings. In addition to the above-mentioned content change, the submitted material proposes a formal change in the method of determining the bonus, namely from the percentage increase of the expert's price to its multiplication by a legal coefficient. This formal change also concerns the bonus for construction land and buildings, but there is no change in the amount of this bonus, only to change its expression. For agricultural and forestry land, a possible increase in the estimated price of up to 15 times is therefore proposed, i.e. coefficient 16, compared to the current increase of 100 per cent - coefficient 2. The specific use of the increased bonus limit for this land will be determined by the internal act of management by the Ministry of Transport, which performs the function of founder in respect of all the state organisations mentioned. In particular, the management instruction will include setting clear rules for determining the specific amount of the bonus for each type of land in individual cases. The aim is therefore to unify the buy-out procedure and prevent possible discrimination. Owners of land of the same kind will be treated equally in the same situation. The basic principles of the order will be as follows: the legal maximum bonus for agricultural and forestry land will be used from one half as standard, and even after the increase the offered purchase price may not exceed three quarters of the estimated price of the land in the locality. The amount of bonus will decrease in time, i.e. the maximum amount of the bonus will be applied when quick acceptance of the offer for purchase of land, the price will decrease at later acceptance. The 90-day legal deadline for accepting the offer will be divided into three periods of time and will be assigned to them a specific amount of bonus, taking into account the time possibilities of local authorities. In justified cases, exceptions to this procedure may be provided by the Minister of Transport, in particular because of apparent injustice, i.e. an unused part of the bonus, in exceptional cases, at the request of the director of the investor organisation, justified, to correct the unfair impact of the normally offered purchase price, in particular when comparing prices before the effectiveness of the Act on 1. 2. 2013. This proposal was discussed in detail by the Economic Committee, the Sub-Committee on Transport, and they both recommended that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the Government proposal in the submitted version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u3	Mr Kolovratník's rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u4	Good afternoon, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, before the rapporteur's report, before the parentheses, I will apologize to you, colleagues and colleagues not only from the coalition of the government, but also from the opposition, for the confusion at the beginning with the inclusion of this point. I believe that this is a mistake that will occur no more than once during the term of office. So a big apology. I believe that a substantive debate on this draft amendment to Act No. 416 won't adversely affect that. In the position of rapporteur, I will now briefly recapitulate the path of this amendment by the House. On 7. 5. We refused to agree in the first reading according to § 90. The amendment was directed to the Economic Committee, which, by its resolution number 182/2, recommended approving this amendment as amended by the Government proposal. It may still be worth mentioning in the discussion that representatives of the professional public who, say, raised comments and questions about the construction and formulation of the internal material of the Ministry of Transport, which will deal with the petitioner mentioned exception, which is up to 16 times in the event of obvious injustice, were invited to the subcommittee on transport. By the plaintiffs, Minister Prachař and his deputy, First Deputy Minister Feranc, these objections have been discussed and explained. As we have already stated, the Economic Committee has recommended to the House to adopt this proposal as amended by the Government proposal. The latest information from me as rapporteur at the moment. Three amendments have been tabled. The first of the 13th. 6. is in the system, has number 951, served by Mr. Karel Šidlo. This amendment was also discussed in the Economic Committee and voted with a negative opinion. I also register two other amendments that have been included in the system today, both of which are submitted by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. These are proposals 957 and 958. I assume we'll be familiar with them. Thank you for this moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, I am opening a general debate. I have here an application with the priority right of President Stanjura, Mr Kučera will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u6	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to respond to the speech by both the Minister and the rapporteur. I mean, we want to deal with this, it's good. The solution proposal, and I've already said it on the Economic Committee, is such an excellent solution. I'm gonna make a spreadsheet, I want what's supposed to work out, and in the meantime, I'm gonna get a line that I'm multiplying by. I am afraid that this solution is not really a solution, and if we approve the government proposal as it was submitted, we will return to it in a few months. Maybe one question for the Minister. We say: The amendment, I agree that it was not good that prices were reduced in too great a way, and therefore owners, and I do not blame them at all, do not have the willingness for a few crowns to sell their land. That was one goal. The second goal was also to change and accelerate expropriation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how many cases of expropriation of the investor organisation ŘSD since March of last year, when it is effective, has begun, how many expropriation procedures have already been completed, with which result, or if they have not started, why does not it do so when the law imposes it on them. Now I would like to describe the two amendments that we believe are addressing the problem and can contribute to making people willing to sell their land voluntarily. I want to say that I am presenting it on behalf of my colleagues, members of Ivan Adamec and František Laudát's Economic Committee, on paper, however, when we insert it into the system, only one Member can logically insert it. Then I will propose to the rapporteur that we vote first when we come to the vote on the amendment under number 958, and then, if it is not approved, on the amendment which has the number of the House document 957. I will now describe both amendments to you. The first one I want to vote on as the first one, my number 958, is basically returning to the state before the 2012 amendment, which has been effective since 1 March 2013. I think that what the processors are saying in the explanatory memorandum, and I am also writing in the amendment that there is not only a text of change, for those who want to get acquainted with it, but there is also a brief justification to know what we are proposing and why we are proposing it. We think that if the way it's designed, we'll unblock it, that we're too optimistic. The government proposal says the owner can get up to 16 times. And what do you think the owner, the owner, will do if he finds out he can get up to 16 times? Well, he's gonna try to get that 16 times. Quite logical. There's no reason he shouldn't do that. However, at the heart of this amendment, the State will offer the owners a prize at the usual place, with the state not pretending to be agricultural land, but taking into account what is in the territorial plan when setting the price. The state's kind of making this up. On the one hand, the state says: we plan important communication or railroad, we have it in the zoning plan, and therefore we have the right to expropriate it in the public interest. And the public interest is that there is to be communication or railway or other infrastructure, because it is not just about transport infrastructure. But the current state of affairs says in valid legislation, even if we approve the government's proposal as it was submitted, that it is actually agricultural land and that the owner gets a prize for agricultural land, perhaps with some kind of bonification. So what's the truth? Is there a public interest and we view it as communication, or is it agricultural land? Those people, those owners, they're not stupid and they logically claim their rights. This is a proposal to return the situation to a novel that failed, in which we are in agreement with both the Minister and the petitioners, with the government. If it seems to you that it is not quite good, then we bring the second option, House press number 957, where we put away the subjective component "up to the height" because we as legislators have the will to interpret it in the law. And as the government's proposal is proposed, and the legislator's will is proposed by the will of one or more executive members. Or, and that's even worse, the will of an anonymous clerk in an investor organization that's worth negotiating for. We think we don't mean that at all, that it's not a good system, because the rules are not clear, simple, transparent and transparent. So instead of being able to do it up to 16 times, we're suggesting that the owners get a price of 8 times. First of all, with the most expensive land, it will reject excessive prices, secondly, everyone knows that it is not worth speculating about any further negotiations, about another more favourable offer, and no one is in doubt that the offer is clear, simple, transparent and permanent. We think that if you do not want to return to the original rules, to the price in the usual place, it is that we set 8 times, which will eliminate the lowest prices that are rightly criticised without the Minister becoming an opponent throughout the Czech Republic. He's optimistic, he says it would be dozens of cases. It's obvious he's not mad at me that he has no experience buying, that it's hundreds of cases on one construction site, not dozens in the whole republic. I'm afraid he or someone else would solve thousands of cases if we left the tolerance behind. We think that the proposal is simply more transparent, while it comes out to the owners, it does not offer them as low prices as it does today. I asked about the expropriation numbers because the novel brought good things after all. For example, the bid period has been reduced from 6 months to 3 months, the amendment that has been in force since March 2013. That's why I'm asking how many cases of ŘSD have been used, because 3 months and 6 months are just a completely different time, we've cut it in half. I'm afraid, but maybe you can disprove my fears that we just don't use the tool. Then we can't even check if the change was a good one. At the price we know that she was not well, we agree on this, there is no dispute between the coalition and the opposition, but with shortening and other paragraphs, which should simplify and make transparent the expropriation process, we did not essentially try it if I have good information that the cases were really, if not on the fingers of two hands, so on the fingers of three hands, but maybe I am wrong and that number is not quite accurate. In a detailed debate, I will then refer to both amendments. I believe that you will look at it factually and rationally, not only as an opposition proposal, but as a substantive proposal that could solve the problem. So we have a common interest in obtaining a building permit so that we have something to build. Then we can argue if all the D's named by the Minister are better - I was so sorry he forgot about R35 because I think that's priority number one. But until we have a building permit, and we don't have that without land, it's a debate whether R35 should take precedence or something else is actually useless. So I would ask that the legislation of the Ministry of Transport take a look at this if necessary, so that we try to debate the amendments in substance, so that we do not take it politically prestigiously, who is actually right, because there is a problem, we admit it and we are ready to solve the problem, and here we come up with our proposal for a concrete and rational solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Kučera has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to freely follow the words of my previous speaker, Mr Stanjura. A number of questions have already been raised here, a number of questions have already been raised during the first reading at the Chamber of Deputies, I have already had a number of questions already during the discussion of the Economic Committee which dealt with this, I think, twice. I have not been answered many questions, I have only been given half the answer to a number of questions, and therefore I am forced to repeat the questions here again. I hope I get the answer here. [[14.40 hours]] I would like to ask whether this current government proposal has been properly discussed in the inter-ministerial proceedings. This means, for example, what is the position of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, what is the position of the Ministry of Agriculture. If we realize that the same land will be purchased in another regime and especially at another price if it is a transport construction, in another regime and at another price it will be purchased if it is an energy pipeline and it will be realized by the Ministry of Industry, in another regime and at another price the same land of the same owner will be purchased by the Ministry of Agriculture, for example, if it is a water management construction. I have not yet been answered this question, perhaps I will see the answer today. What role will they play in buying out the municipal government? Will these municipal authorities comply with the internal regulation of the Minister of Transport? Do we realize that the same land, which is worth CZK 100,000 today, can use the maximum bonus of 100,000 x 16, that it will become a CZK 60,000 million land using the maximum bonus? Do you think there'll be someone, some owner or landowner who won't want to take advantage of the x 16 bonus? And that's why he's going to make the most of it, including court trips. It is clear to all of us that we are opening a huge area of corruption in establishing prices for land by resort investors such as ŘSD, SŽDC, ŘVC, and when granting exemptions for land according to the internal regulation of the Ministry of Transport. I am clearly aware of and strongly support legislative actions and legislative changes leading to the acceleration of transport infrastructure construction. I think we can all agree on that here, and I don't think there's a single Member, the only Member, who would argue otherwise. The question is, how do we do it? I see a single and legislatively clear path in the amendment to the law, which will go through a proper inter-ministerial procedure, to which the Union of Cities and Municipalities will properly express itself. Only such an amendment can really speed up the construction of transport infrastructure, it will not bring about a wave of lawsuits and disputes as the amendment proposed by the Minister of Transport, which will not speed up the construction of transport infrastructure, but will block it. If, of course, we want to act very quickly, in that case, I am in favour of the amendments that Mr Stanjura has already tabled here, and there was also Mr Laudát's amendment. It's still a chance to save this novel a little bit. Thank you. . [[Members' applause from the right side of the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u9	Thank you. Another party to the general debate is Mr Karel Šidlo. Minister Zaorálek votes with replacement card number 10.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, as the rapporteur has already said in the introductory words, I have tabled an amendment to the Economic Committee, so I have responded to the request of the management of the city of Pilsen, which drew attention to the very strong discrimination arising from the adoption of Act 416, which dealt with speeding up the construction of transport and other infrastructure. The discrimination lies in the fact that the regions, cities and municipalities did not have the chance to buy out under the same conditions as the State. Although they are building transport infrastructure in the same public interest as the Ministry of Transport is building it through its established organisations. That is why I believe that my signing up for this amendment is appropriate, because even in the premises and in the extraviles as well as in the interiors of cities, municipalities and regions, it is necessary to ensure a much faster way of obtaining the necessary land for the construction of bypasses, delays and other roads, which are co-financed by these municipal institutions. I have taken the liberty of entering into the House document 951, which you have certainly seen and found in this House press, to give a specific example concerning the locality of the city of Pilsen, and it is a difference in the cost of buying out the land price as a specific mathematical model of what can happen during the construction of the second stage of the urban western circuit in the section Křimická - Chebská Street - Karlovarská. I will not quote the figures here, but whoever had the opportunity to get acquainted with it certainly saw what I will say here completely at the end of my speech as a justification for this amendment. From the calculation, which is based on real numbers and on any adopted amendment that should apply to the State, and, by extension, on the basis of the accepted amendment for the city and municipalities, we would basically get to half the price when buying out all the areas concerned. And the half price, of course, has a major impact on how the cost of construction of transport infrastructure will be regulated for those entities I have talked about, whether it is a region, a city or a municipality. That is why I took the liberty of drawing attention to this amendment, which, I say yes, quite honestly, did not pass on the Economic Committee, but only by a few votes, and I think that the rejection of the position of the Ministry of Transport is not an obstacle to the adoption of this amendment, because their comments did not concern the error of content, but rather the way in which this proposal interferes with the competences of other ministries with which land purchases relate. That is why they have expressed a negative opinion. Let me conclude by asking for the support of this amendment, because I think it builds equal conditions for the construction of transport infrastructure in the public interest for the regions, cities and municipalities as well as for the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u11	Thank you. Mr Stanjura wants to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u12	Thank you. I will no longer speak to those amendments, but in general, I would ask the Government to address the problem that we discussed in the Economic Committee. It is a terrible confusion in the valuation of property, whether land or buildings - the price at the place usual, the price administrative, the price market, the price calculated by the yield method, etc. A terrible problem, they don't have a chance to orientate themselves to owners, but neither to self-government, because once you choose one method, someone thinks that the other method could have been better for the city - either to buy cheaper or to sell the price. So I think, and this is not really on the amendment or on the parliamentary bill, this calls for a thorough legislative debate on how to simplify the rules on the valuation of land, including infrastructure land. So I would ask the government to deal with this as quickly as possible by some standard legislative process as possible, so that we can find simpler rules together. This will help all - both those who buy out, but also those who are asked by the public administration to sell their property, whether to the city, the region, the municipality or the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u13	Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would really still ask the Minister very urgently, because we feel as much as he does that something needs to be changed quickly in order to consider it. I see the huge risk of the Plzeň bypass in this presentation that we are officially discussing. The House once adopted a special law, and if it were to be built, there was a risk that the exact opposite would have been achieved, which means that the deadline would have reached enormously, because according to some legal opinions actually, if someone had given it to the Constitutional Court, the law would not have had a chance to survive, and on the contrary, everything would have been delayed, so the classic D5 around Plzeň was built according to standard laws. And here I fear that there may be a similar situation, even the enormous efforts of people who negotiate contracts can be squandered, citizens will be introduced - those landowners concerned - there is an unequal right of purchase between municipalities and, in fact, state institutions more or less for a similar purpose and the like. [[14.50 hours]] I see a huge risk in this, and please consider before the third reading whether to go the easy way that colleague Stanjura, Adamec and I are proposing so far. I'd rather go down that road than take a chance. It won't be me and it won't be anyone here, but you know for yourself how much effort is being made to prevent the realization of virtually all buildings today, not just roads, but railway and others. So please, it would be a big coincidence if any NGOs or individuals didn't catch it, they didn't put it in court, and it would block another one until some decision was made. I'm really worried about a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u15	Thank you. Mr Vácha, with a factual remark? [[Mr. Vácha agrees.]] In that case, you have two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not such a factual remark as a warning or a question. We will now decide - or you will most likely agree that one single person will decide whether a meter of land will cost CZK 100 or CZK 1,600. By snapping his fingers, he decides whether it's going to cost one metre of CZK 100, or CZK 1,600. Without any control. I'd like to ask Mr... [[Clue right: It is possible directly.]] Can I do it directly? I would like to ask the Minister if he is able to resist the temptation to decide on such amounts himself and what mechanisms will be in the Ministry to control him so that this decision cannot be used by various interest groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u17	Thank you. So much for the general debate. I don't have another logged in. I conclude the general debate and open the debate in detail. I have Mr Šidla's application here, and I have registered Mr Stanjura's application. Mr Šidlo, then Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for my amendment, which is listed as House document 951. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u19	Yes. Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u20	I formally sign up for two amendments, which are listed as House Document Nos 957 and 958.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u21	Thank you. I will ask who is next reporting for a detailed debate. Mr Koloverstvík, rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u22	Colleagues, colleagues, I'd like to see another procedure now. I would make a motion to shorten the deadline between second and third readings of this amendment to 48 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u23	Yes. We'll vote on it. If no one wants to speak in a detailed debate, I will end the debate in detail and allow the final words, I will ask - perhaps the Minister wishes - yes, he wishes the final word. You mít room, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have made a few quick remarks and will try to explain and refute some of the objections that have been raised here. As regards 16 times and the concern that each of the citizens will wait for 16 times and will not automatically address the proposed deadlines and bonuses that are in the competence of the director of the investor organisations. I'd like to remind you that we still have a law here, and our proposal doesn't interfere with the expropriation institute. That means we don't have a duty to wait for an offer of 16 times, but in justified cases, we can get into the expropriation process right away. I'll get to what's a valid case in my performance on a story. It is said - Law 416, whether it is agricultural land or other land. Indeed, Act 416 deals with the purchase of agricultural and forestry land and this land is bought out in the way it is registered in the cadastral. This means that this law, which was adopted in 2009, solved one major issue - prevented speculation. It worked by buying out agricultural land and then selling it as a construction site according to the zoning plan. This law prevented this and we do not change this principle, i.e. We're still talking about farmland. As regards the number of expropriations. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I'm sorry, but I don't have current reports on the number of expropriations, but I just know that on the R35 road that was mentioned here, there are hundreds of potentially expropriating procedures. However, from last time, I have one piece of information for you to make a comparison. There were 72 expropriating cases of 104 cadastral land and the process lasted four years. So if we go into expropriation proceedings and respect generally court deadlines, we're having fun over the years. This is not to accelerate transport construction, transport infrastructure. This is the final stop. Plus the cost of citizens and the cost of the state in administrative proceedings. As far as the regulation is concerned, we propose a maximum of 16 times the current twice. We don't make any other changes. We limit this by three quarters of the cost of construction land at prices and places of usual. As regards valuation conditions. Law 416 does not address valuation methods. There's no change here either. This is a question of another legislation. And now I'm going to allow myself to tell you the story of where that 16 times is and why that is. Previously, before the effectiveness of this law, agricultural and forestry land was sold in the order of 100 crowns, in the range of 120 to 250 crowns. Let us pick an example that the price of this land is sold for 160 crowns. Today it is worth 15 crowns, according to the cadastral, price and place. If we use eight times the director's competence according to the precise instructions, we will get to the amount of CZK 120. Here we see a difference of 40 crowns, and that's obvious injustice based on what was sold before it was effective. This means, on the basis of a written request and justified by the director of the investor organisation, the Minister of Transport may grant an exemption. It can grant an exception and thus increase the bonus to twelve times, thus comparing this price that was before the law was effective. This is the point. It doesn't automatically mean we use 16 times. And if anyone waits for 16 times, we'll go into expropriation mode. As regards Mr Kučera's comment on the legislative process. The Department of Transport has proposed a change. It asked the government and the Legislative Council of the Government made recommendations. This means that the law was properly discussed in the Legislative Council of the Government and that the consent was given. As regards Mr Šidla's comments or amendments. I'd just like to say that today municipalities and cities are buying up the land before it's laid down in the law. This probably does not apply to municipalities and cities. This is evidenced by the significant activities and assistance of municipalities towards the Road and Motorway Directorate, which are actively inserted themselves and bought out these land, which subsequently sell for the State. This is indeed a buy-out in the interest of the State, i.e. This is a purchase for roads, motorways and first-class roads that are financed from the Operational Programme Transport from co-financing by the European Union, which are not financed by roads and transport buildings owned by municipalities and regions. These are the rules on the use of European Union funds. As regards the objection, respectively. Mr Stanjura's amendment. I really do not think that it would be good to return the prices of land purchase to the effectiveness of this law, because we could get into the situation as set out in the amendment or as I understood it, that we will be running again on speculation and buying out land intended for transport infrastructure according to territorial plans. This is really agricultural land, and we're not changing that. [[15.00 hours]] As regards Mr Laudát's speech. He says he sees the risk that someone might challenge this law, appeal to the Constitutional Court. I have to ask: Why did they not do so in 2009, when this law was adopted? And the only instrument for changing the bonus was already anchored there. He was there twice. And we say 16 times to motivate people to sell these land. And as for the last comment I made. One person, the Minister of Transport, will decide. It's not like that. The Minister for Transport will only consider the request made by the director of the investor organisation in writing to provide a derogation. It's not like the Minister of Transport looks out the window at the Vltava and says "it's going to be 14 times." This process has rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u25	Thank you, Minister. Before we proceed to the vote, with priority rights, President Stanjura. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u26	Thank you. I really want you to listen to me because I didn't want to perform, but the minister showed absolute ignorance. So who of you has ever heard of regional operational programs, please tell the minister that the gross of the money goes to the roads of second and third grade. And the minister here says: "The regions cannot draw European money on the roads." An incredible sentence. Let your MMR colleague do the math. This will tell you how many billions which region and which operational programme has exhausted in this operational period 2007 to 2013. Do not say that the regions and municipalities cannot draw on the roads. It's not true! You can nod your head. I can quote you, like Moravian-Silesian County. A piece of the southern Opava bypass in about 400 miles. CZK was built by the Moravian-Silesian Region and gained about 75 percent from the regional operational programme. So it's not true what you said so authorityfully that the regions can't draw. They're pumping, and very successfully. Ask any of these regions. It is one of the most successful parts of seven regional operational programmes. First of all. Two. Why, in most cases, do cities buy out, as you say, a railway state? Because it has set clear transparent rules, there are no exceptions and they do not want to make money on landowners and they want to make a deal with their citizens. That's why it's a little more expensive, and it's a lot faster, because we're not trying to save it in the wrong place. And now I have to ask the Minister to tell me what the truth is. At first, he described how he would wisely proceed with the coefficient up to 16 times. I'd like to remind myself of his words about five minutes ago. He says: "We will take the price that was valid before the novel. " I think you said 160 kroner. "Now 15 times 8 is 120. I can decide to add 40 crowns or not." It's okay. And then he says, "I reject Mr Stanjura's proposal, which would clearly say that the man will receive 160 crowns." Because I say we go back to what was. And you say, "Yes, but I'll decide if that's the case. And if things work out differently, I can add or I don't have to." And when we propose clear rules and say the same thing, because a moment ago you said we had to give the same price as it was, and when I propose that it be legislative, purely, without anyone being able or not to, it's wrong. But if the Minister does that, and he's the good guy who's got the 40 crowns there, that's good. So consider for yourself what is better, what is more transparent, which method has less corruption space and which method has more corruption space. If the Minister had not mentioned how he would have corrected this obvious injustice by his decision, I would not have allowed him to receive 160 crowns. I'm just saying it's supposed to be in the law and it's supposed to be an expert, not an individual decision by the minister or director. And listen to the sentences: "The director of the investor organization will have the competence to propose an increased price." Well, that's it, just not clear rules! There's gonna be a director of an investor organization who's gonna be competent. Of course, the CEO of ŘSD will move it to races because of course he cannot judge the entire Republic, so several directors in the second or third line of the ŘSD will have the competence to propose a price to the owners. And if he knows Pepa, he'll offer him a better price, and if he knows him and doesn't like him, he can offer him a worse price. I'm not saying he's gonna do it, but the law allows it, and that's how the Minister justifies it. And we say, let's make clear rules without the possible entry of directors, whether general or local, without the minister doing good. Maybe now I get it, if that's the case, I don't believe it. We wanted clear rules and there is no good man there, at most the House, that has passed the law, whereas the Minister wants him to be the good man who will add the 40 crowns to this unfair price to his individual decision to the owner. That would be so the owner wouldn't appreciate it and then choose him next time he was the one who raised his price!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u27	Minister, while I will not stop you from speaking, I just point out that you will reopen the debate if you do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u28	I don't want to comment on the calculations anymore. I think I'm behind this, and it's not about being elected. Not really. I just want to set the record straight. I have used the Operational Programme Transport and it is not really used to finance second and third-class roads, however the regional operational programme is applicable. It's just an explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u29	I have to ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u30	Colleagues and colleagues, after all, I would like to call on representatives of new political entities in this House in particular to consider that one is the fundamental attributes of the House's activities should be that it would create more or less the same conditions in our country and more or less the same approach for different levels of decision-making. With my experience in self-government, I have experienced recent years of development, where any tolerance to take public interest into account, any movement of prices in public decision-making has in fact been very limited at first by legislative or various methodological guidelines of ministries and so on, and recently this practice has been very often subject to various interrogations and such things. One of the first measures you put in place is that you give this authority to one of your chosen ones. At the same time these weeks and months, representatives of your various regional electoral staffs will be sent by city halls according to the relevant laws asking for information on the various property rights operations that the town halls are doing. You're going to the election campaign, preparing yourself for how you're going to test municipal policies to see if any price should have been 15 crowns higher, and at the same time you're creating a space that is completely different in order to take account of individuals who are even defined by law. Try to think about it. And I'm telling you that we, when you accuse us at municipal level, will give you back the fact that any statements you make will be incontrovertible when you now approve this as a principle. What makes the strategic decision of self-government different about the important issues of urban development? Why can't that self-government take account of anything and suddenly they're equal and more equal here, and the Minister of Transport or representatives of investor organisations will have that right? Try to think about yourself, and all your statements that you will blame for those who have made decisions in recent years will be completely unbelievable after this decision. Either the same rules apply to everyone, or you're more equal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u31	I have Mr Borka's factual comment here. It's not like that. That was a mistake. Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u32	I would still understand when one of the ministers says that such detail cannot be introduced into the law, and in that law there is authorisation to issue a sub-legal standard, such as government regulations. I think that sometimes it is better, it is more flexible, especially when it concerns technical matters. But here I think it's an absolute novelty in legislation. We are discussing the law, and the argument is that the internal methodological instruction of the Minister of Transport will come out. But it doesn't matter! Maybe on the A.R.S., but that's it. Or the SŽDC, so I won't be accused of forgetting anyone. So not that I supported it, but at least it could have been a government order and not an internal methodical order from the Minister of Transport. What's in the legislation? I understand you're not referring to an internal methodological instruction in that text. The legislative rules just couldn't handle that. Then please don't talk about it! Because you're laying down the rules here, as Martin Novotný said, 1 to 16, and you want to regulate them by internal methodical instruction and decision-making powers of one single person. You didn't even put it in the government's orders. You don't even trust that government. I'll be the centurion myself. I said that on the Economic Committee. The Minister of Transport has decided to be a centurion throughout the Czech Republic. At the same time, we asked many in the debate what it would do when the 16 times is used, with the usual price in the region. That it's not just the communication. There are other shops going on, whether between private owners or between public administration and private owners, and very often there is a basis for negotiation or sale price or purchase price price at the place usual. In this way, if it pays up to the 16 times, we're going to change the terms for other business and for other property transfers. And I don't know if that's our goal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u33	Thank you. I don't have another one for the debate. So I'm going to ask you once again if there's any interest in other final words. The rapporteur, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u34	I'll take the final word. Thank you for the comments, I see them. I also want to thank you for mentioning R35. As you know, I'm from Pardubice County, which the road is actually touching. I'm terrified about how the road was standing again today, how a fatal accident happened there recently. This is just the top priority for me when we have to do something. And you all know it's not just the R35. Nevertheless, I would like to thank Mr Stanjur for the mention. For myself, I personally have to say that I also asked myself and expected an explanation as to how it will be with that exception, and from the Ministry I am convinced and I believe that it will just work, and it will work so that we sell those land, respectively. Buying land from the state, they just started. That's the top priority for today. And perhaps I still want to convince you or make you aware that a much bigger change is already being discussed. It's the next phase of the preparatory work, the Liner Transport Construction Act, which should somehow follow up on this. If I'm not mistaken, the government's legislative plan is sometime in the fall of this year. I'm sorry, I don't know exactly when. In any case, I am now registering Amendment No to this law. 951, 958 and 957 respectively, as requested by the appellants to vote on them at third reading. Mr President, I have asked to shorten the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours. So I will beg for the vote on this proposal. I assume we'll get to third reading on Friday this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u35	Yes, I know that, and if the Minister doesn't want the final word, right now there's room for a vote on a shortcut proposal. I was here about 15 minutes ago to make a motion to unsubscribe, so I don't want to be accused of missing someone, so I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. We will therefore vote on the proposal made by the rapporteur to reduce the deadline for third reading to 48 hours in this press. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is 92, registered is 149, for 108, against 21. This proposal has been adopted and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and I will pass on the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-001-015.u36	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue by discussing the point
