ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-017-064.u1	64. Financial statements and annual report on the activities of the State Housing Development Fund for 2012 /Household printing 20/ Věra Jourová, Minister for Regional Development, shall state the report submitted. I beg you to take the floor. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-017-064.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, my task for today is to comment on the financial statements and the annual report on the activities of the State Housing Development Fund, which is an organisation with the Ministry of Regional Development, and to ask for your approval. The State Housing Development Fund - if you will allow me to use the abbreviation SFRB if I speak of this institution - ensures, as many of you know, programmes, both grant and credit, in line with the concept of housing precisely for the development of sustainable housing in the Czech Republic. In 2012, the Fund, as the annual report states, and as reflected in the accounts, had a fundamental breakthrough in the fact that it had started to prepare and use the JESSICA programme, a credit programme from EU funds, which means that it had received 610 million in its management to provide loans. CZK, he then received a subsidy from the Ministry for Regional Development 51 million. CZK, in the form of non-investment subsidies as unused expenditure of the previous year under the Panel programme. This means that this money was used precisely within the framework of this aforementioned Panel programme. In the area of expenditure, the most important item was the payment of interest subsidies for reconstruction, modernisation and insulation of residential buildings in the Panel programme. I would like to emphasise once again that the SFRB manages both grants and loans to programmes. There are currently six of them, and other programs are directly on the MMR. The volume was sufficient - I am again in 2012 - set for loans to municipalities for repairs and modernization of the housing house, all applications submitted were uncovered. The State Fund also grants subsidies in connection with flood damage. The year 2012 did not have any floods, so there was no such support. The funds to support the construction of rental flats remained unused in the form of low-interest loans. This was because it was expected until August to amend the regulation of the Government of 284/2011, which was governed by the programme. So then 14 applications were submitted, only one of which complied with the conditions of the programme and was fulfilled, i.e. financed, and others were financed in the following year. These 14 applications received to support the construction of rental flats had a volume of 584 million. Kč. The programme expenditure appropriations for the 2012 budget were largely implemented, the support under each programme was granted in a total amount of more than CZK 1 billion. Finally, to the extent defined by objective circumstances, as I have already mentioned in the delay in connection with the Government's regulation, tasks for 2012 have been fulfilled by the Fund. A holding fund has been set up under the Fund, which, as I have already mentioned, provides for the management of European money under the JESSICA programme. I can say that the operating expenditure of the Fund's apparatus and the holding fund were 4.7 percent of the total aid implemented. We will examine this figure whether it is effective for the Fund to implement these aids in order to manage them, we will compare them with the amount of operating expenditure in the banking sector, because, as we know, our government will seek effective ways to deal with things. But that's when I went to the present day. The accounts and the annual report on the Fund's activities have been duly discussed by the Fund's Committee and the Supervisory Board of the Fund, both of which have been approved by both institutions. [[12.00 hours]] The Government of the Czech Republic discussed and approved the annual accounts and the annual report on the activities of the Fund by Resolution 271 of 17 April 2013. In addition, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the Chamber of Deputies discussed and agreed both materials by its resolution of 11 December 2013. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies approve both the materials of today's resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-017-064.u3	Have a good noon. Thank you, Minister. The report was discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 20/1. I now ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Václav Horáček, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-017-064.u4	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to present to you the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its second meeting after the opening words of Mgr František Lukl, then Minister for Regional Development, after my report and after the debate adopted a resolution (a) recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the material referred to in Houses 20, (b) empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution; and (c) Instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-017-064.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a general debate which I do not have an application for at the moment. I am therefore ending the general debate. I will ask the Minister for any final word or rapporteur if there is any interest. Not interested. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, in which I also have no application. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. There is no interest in the final words; the motion for a resolution was made by the Member. I shall put this motion for a resolution to a vote. I therefore initiate the vote on the resolution on the accounts and the 2012 Annual Report of the State Housing Development Fund. Whoever is in favour of approving this financial statements and annual reports, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 63. Of the 159 Members present for 131, against zero. I note that the report and the annual closure of the State Housing Fund have been adopted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Mrs Kateřina Konečná, who wants to tell us something about the vote, has now taken the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-017-064.u6	I'm sorry, coworkers and colleagues, it can happen to me. Just for the tape screen, please: in the vote 58 I have a yes at the high vote, but I've been delayed. So I'm asking for a correction for the log. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-017-064.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Before we go to the next point, I do not see the President of the Election Commission here. [[Attention, he's present.]] I therefore ask the President of the Election Commission if the elections are ready. The President signals that the elections are ready, which is why I am giving him the floor. Please, Mr President, conduct us in a manner of election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-017-064.u8	Thank you and I apologize at the same time. I dive into a technical debate. I'm saying that the elections are ready, that we can handle them. Perhaps one more explanation of why we have chosen this procedure and why I asked at the beginning of this meeting for a fixed point on today. This is because there will now be two elections here in the hall using a voting device. These are the election of the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the VZP, they are points 53 and 54 of the agenda of the meeting. Then we have two more ballot points - 56, a member of the Supreme Audit Office, and 59, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Both of these points, or both of these elections, will be conducted in a secret form or a secret ballot in the State acts. This is so that the electoral commission can then add your votes and ballots in the urns and you can take a lunch break. And if the plenary agrees, we would announce the results of the elections after the lunch break at the beginning of the afternoon program. So many explanations and now we're opening up a point.
