ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-020-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the next day of the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. Mrs Berdychová has a replacement card number 6. I say that the following Members asked to excuse their absence at today's meeting: Mr Adam - health reasons, Mrs Aulická - health reasons, Mr Benešík - foreign travel, Mr Brázdil - transport situation, Mr Čihák - personal Volčík, Mr Číp within 17 hours - personal reasons, Mr Farský within 17.30 hours - working grounds, Mrs Fischerová - health reasons, Mr Gazdík and Vice-President within 17 hours - working reasons, Mr Grebeníček - working grounds, Mr Grospič from 16.30 pm - working grounds, Semelová Halíková - personal reasons, Mr Kott between 18 and 19.30 pm - working Šincl, Mr Luzar - Urban situation, Mr Nykl - family reasons, Mrs Nytrová - driving situation, Mr Opálka - traffic situation, Mr Pavera within 19 o'clock - personal Rykala - working reasons, Mrs Pecková - working Schwarzenberg, Mr Toufar - foreign travel, Mr Nyk - medical reasons, Mr. That is all on the part of the Members. Prime Minister Sobotka apologizes from the members of the government from 15 pm - working reasons, Minister Chovanec from 17 pm - working reasons, Minister Jurečka until 15.30 pm - working reasons, Minister Němeček - working reasons, Minister Válková - foreign trip and Minister Zaorálek - foreign trip. We interrupted this meeting on Friday, November 7, to date, which means until Tuesday, December 7. On the basis of the meeting that we conducted on the morning of the Gremium, I propose the following procedure - that we interrupt this meeting by Friday this week, so that the meeting should be opened ten minutes after the end of the discussion of paragraph 89, which is the third reading of the Wage Act, so that we can continue with the proper meeting that has been convened for today. This is the agreement or conclusion of the consultations that I have made on the grémium of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm interrupting this meeting until Friday this week. It will begin ten minutes after the end of paragraph 89, which is the third reading of the printing 277. A proper meeting of the House will begin in 11 minutes, which means at 14 o'clock 15 minutes. Just to be clear, of course, paragraph 89, press 277, but this item is at the 23rd meeting, to be absolutely clear, until when we interrupted the meeting.
