ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-23-ps2013-019-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all to the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd like you all to log in with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I have no such information yet. I would like to tell you that the following Members have asked to excuse their absence at today's meeting: Mr Adamec - working grounds, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - health reasons, Vice-President Bartošek from one hour - working reasons, Mrs Benešová - working grounds, Mr Běhounek from 12 o'clock - working grounds, Mr Černoch - Vyzula grounds, Mr Havíř - working grounds, Mr Huml without reason, Mr Jandák - medical reasons, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský from 10 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Kasal - working Sedláček, Mr Kádner - working grounds, Mr Klučka from one - foreign road, Mr Kolovratník from three - working reasons, Mr Koskuba - working reasons, Mr Kott from ten o'clock - working reasons, Mrs Kovářová - working grounds, on 12 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Pleticha without giving any reason, Mr Podivínský for the morning meeting, Mr Rykala - working grounds, Mr Kott from the European Member - working Šarapatka - working Vácha - working grounds - from the European Member from the 10 Member from the European Parliament - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - working Zemánek - Members from the European Parliament from the European Parliament - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - Member Kovář. The Prime Minister apologizes from the members of the government - foreign trip, Minister Babiš from the morning meeting for work reasons. Mr Syblík has a replacement card number 6. Vice-President Bělobrádek until 11.30 for work reasons, Minister Dienstbier for work reasons, Minister Chovanec for morning work, Minister Jurečka - foreign travel, Minister Marksová until 11 hours for work reasons, Minister Mládek - foreign travel, Minister Němeček - foreign travel, Minister Válková - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek for morning work - also working reasons. Mr Rais, who apologizes for the period between 10 and 12 a.m. due to a business meeting at the Israeli embassy, is still apologizing. So many apologies. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 132, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that it is possible to submit applications for oral interpelations by 11:30 at the latest and their lottery draw will take place at 11:30. So I'm opening up a point.
