ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I now have a request for you not to leave the O.R. because within a few moments the President will be coming to the meeting room with his speech. Until then, please remain in your seats and then we will continue our negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-000-999.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I announce that in a few moments, Mr Miloš Zeman will be attending our meeting hall of the President of the Republic. [[On the sounds of the festive fanfare, the President of the Republic comes to the hall accompanied by the Chancellor of the Chamber of Deputies. He sits at the right-hand seat of the President of the House.]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome Mr Miloš Zeman's President of the Republic and give him the floor. Mr. President, please. [[The President goes to the speaker's microphone, shakes hands with Mr Kalousek on the way.]] The President of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-000-999.u3	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable guests, I believe that the most appropriate opportunity for the President of the Republic to greet the new Chamber of Deputies is the moment when this House is probably the most important programming point, and that is the expression of confidence in this government. I am aware that many promises have been made in the election campaign by various political actors, and that, if any coalition government is created, it is necessary to seek a rational compromise so that at least part of these promises or commitments are reflected in both the coalition treaty and the programming declaration. On the other hand, I would like to say that I consider the programming declaration to be a collective promise or commitment. A promise that should be controllable and that should not be violated, as we have seen in the past, when the word did not apply, when the hand was handed, but also the signed contract was devalued shortly after it was realized. And I think it was one of the factors why the past government coalition fell apart. It is not possible to promise tax reductions before elections and tax increases after elections. But let me get to the subject that I am entitled to, and this is not an evaluation of the government's programming statement, because that is the duty of the Prime Minister and the members of the government. This issue is not even a criticism of this programming statement, because it is an obligation of the opposition. But this topic is the answer to the question that many politicians asked me in particular in relation to my Christmas message, when I spoke above all about the need to keep promises and they asked where the vision was. My colleagues and colleagues, although I have written a few books on social visions, I am not so creatively conceited as to assume that you have all read them. Therefore, allow me, in at least five minutes, to try to express my vision again and place it in the context of the programming declaration, because this statement is a perfectly logical statement for a four-year term, while the real vision of that name exceeds four years. It is not by maintaining the current state of affairs, but by attempting to make a long-term change. If I'm going to use a rather pathetic term, it's a dream. It's Martin Luther King's dream, it's John Kennedy's Kennedy of landing Američan on the moon. It's a dream that can motivate us, but also frustrate us if it doesn't come true. I'm very careful to use the term vision. We've had a few here before. We assumed we'd catch up with Austria within seven years. I didn't notice. We assumed that we would become a Central European economic tiger. I didn't notice. Instead of learning about Western democracies, what real political democracy and real market economy look like, we have created some new political formations outside the structure of standard political parties, which have fallen apart over time. We have come to the view that we can develop an original new method of privatisation. And we all know how it turned out. [[11.20 hours]] A common feature of these quasi-visions was some kind of chechocentrism. It was an effort to find an original way at all costs and to teach others rather than learn from others. The opposite extreme of this chechocentrism was the search for inspiration in the farthest parts of our planet. A serious proposal was made to join the NAFTA Treaty, which means a free trade agreement between the United States and Canada, possibly Mexico. There was an equally serious suggestion that we inspire ourselves with Singapore as one of the Asian tigers. Thank God this vision didn't happen. But now we are faced with the task of seeking to anchor the government's programming statement in the longer term than the four-year horizon, and I would like to offer you my idea in your consideration. Let us remain in the European context. Let us remain on the continent that is our own and with which we are not only economic but mainly cultural roots for centuries. And let us look at the different European countries and try to inspire them without copying them. I believe that the long-term vision is not just a vision of a socially and environmentally oriented market economy, which is referred to by the government's programming declaration, but that it is a vision of a social state. There is no European welfare state. It's journalism fiction. In fact, there are different models of social states and we need to ask which of them is successful and which is unsuccessful. In terms of long-term success, objective, hard statistical data show that Scandinavian countries have best coped with the crisis. Please look at the data. Scandinavian countries are placed on the first ranks of competitiveness. But not just that. They are also placed on the first rungs of what is called the human development index, which means an index which, in addition to economic performance, includes the likelihood of survival, crime rates, environmental protection rates and other socio-environmental parameters. What, however, is a feature of the Scandinavian countries that will upset many of you. It's high taxation. High taxation, which is reflected, for example, by the fact that the marginal taxation of the richest income groups in Sweden is 56 percent, that Denmark, I acknowledge, as the only country in the European Union, has a single value added tax of 25 per cent, while according to the eurobarometer, the Dán are the happiest countries in Europe without linking it to the actions of Danish students in Prague. And while I do not want to ignore the problems that even Scandinavian countries have, for example, economic problems in Finland or difficult immigration in Sweden, we must say that these countries have overcome the Euro-American economic crisis far better than the rest of Europe. And that's a fact that's good to respect. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to IDEA, Swedish government debt has fallen by 50 per cent over the last ten years. And we, who were in a situation where we were increasing government debt even at a time of 6% of economic growth, need to think about why the Švéd succeeded and why we failed. Yes, no one likes to pay taxes. But the Scandinavian model, which I recommend you to consider, is typical not only of high taxation. It is typical that, firstly, tax returns are not stolen, and secondly, that this income is reasonably invested. It is invested in the area of human potential, whether it is education or health care. And it is these human investments that have a long-term character. [[11.30 hours]] If the new Minister of Education proposes not only to limit school reform to constant experiments with university studies, but to start from basic and even pre-school education, with which I completely agree, then this means that the positive effects of such reform will not take place until the end of one generation. And a common policy is bound by its four-year term of office and, of course, the desire to be elected for the next four years. Masaryk once wished Czechoslovakia to have 50 years to become a full democracy. Unfortunately, he only got 20 years. So let us try to find this inspiration, if you want, this dream, for European countries that are proven to be more successful than Europe's average, and let us not go to other continents, nor to invent other original Czech paths. That's my first and basic point. Now let me briefly return to the government's programming statement. I was embarrassed to read them because I actually got two programming statements in the last version. One called the Government's programming declaration and the other called the Coalition Treaty. And because I excel, colleagues and colleagues, with careful reading, I found 15 fundamental differences in these documents. I am not referring to the differences in wording, I am not referring to the differences arising from the briefing and, in some cases, the extension of these two documents. I mean, the differences in content. And so that I don't delay you for long, let me give you one example. In the coalition contract, there is even talk in two places that the value added tax should be reduced to medicines, books and possibly other commodities. In the programme statement, I only read about reducing value added tax to medicines. I would like to point out that it does not bother me personally, on the contrary. I told the Prime Minister that I would consider it a much more useful place to lower VAT on books to be more supportive of municipal libraries as natural springs of local culture and local education, because, of course, the book repertoire includes pornography, and I really do not see why tax advantages of pornography. She'll make enough money on her own. But I am merely stating as a pars for this one of many examples of a discrepancy between the coalition treaty and the government's programming statement, so if I were a legal stickler, as I am not, I would even say that the government's programming statement is a violation of the coalition agreement. But I will say no such thing because I wish this government success because I myself have tried to contribute to this success from the point of view of complex problems in the appointment of the Minister of Finance. koneckonců all, I believe that if there are not all three presidents of coalition parties in the government, this government is limping and unable to communicate. I believe that this coalition partnership, this marriage of reason, is the only possible solution to the situation that arose after the free elections, so consider my remarks as friendly. Like notes that try to improve the functioning of the government. Another remark in addition to a certain discrepancy between the coalition agreement and the programming declaration is that each programme document is to be controlled. And if it is to be controllable, it must include time limits. I am pleased to assure the Prime Minister that the government's legislative plan will also be the pendant of this programming declaration, because without this plan and the deadlines resulting from it, the government could argue that all its promises will be fulfilled in the last week of its term of office, which would certainly not be entirely appropriate. Another friendly comment relates to the contradiction between the objectives contained in the programming declaration, with which I very and very much agree, because it is for the President, although theoretically, to comment on everything, but practically above all on issues of defence and foreign policy. I would like to welcome the fact that foreign missions occur in the Ministry of Defence chapter, Minister. I am glad that we have agreed on this, and I know that there is a substantial part of the public against foreign missions. And I always remind them of Nevill Chamberlain's statement in September 1938: "Why should we fight for a country we know nothing about? " And I said the same thing during my recent visit to the soldiers in Afghanistan. We are fighting against international terrorism in particular so that this terrorism does not penetrate our territory. I would like to welcome, this time I have probably turned in the right direction, even that part of the government's programming statement, which talks about creating conditions for joining the euro area. [[Turns right to the government bench]] I also agree that the Government is submitting a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies and then to me on the conclusion of the fiscal pact, I stress, excluding Part III, because we cannot accept this part for objective economic reasons today, just as it was not accepted by Sweden, Poland, Hungary or Lithuania. I would just like to point out that in terms of meeting the Maastricht criteria, which are three, there is nothing to prevent us from starting the preparatory work for entry into the euro area now and getting closer to the two-year transitional period in which the koruna exchange rate against the euro is to be fixed in a very narrow tolerance zone. I would like to express my deep dissatisfaction with the intervention of the Czech National Bank, which has artificially shifted this course beyond real market value, whether consciously or unconsciously slowed our entry into the euro area. [[11.40 hours]] Well, one of the last friendly remarks. When I read some sort of balance sheet, that means on one side of the goal, on the other side of the means, so I wanted to ask, "My dears, and where will you get the money?" Because while the calculation of projected budget expenditure is, I do not want to say quite transparent, but not entirely vague, then fuzzy is the idea of budget savings, whether on the revenue side or on the expenditure side of the state budget. I completely agree that there are huge reserves in the budget. It's wasted spending, it's overpriced public contracts. As one of the minor examples, I would mention the Act on State Housing Contribution, which allows the owners of the residential hotels to enrich their clients. I believe that tax collection can be improved. By the way, while there's talk of financial police in the coalition agreement, I don't see any financial police in the program statement. I believe that property returns can contribute to the elimination of corruption, especially if the burden of proof is passed on, as Jara da Cimrman says, to a vulgar suspect. But I ask, have you quantified it yet? Have you found out if that's enough for you? And if it doesn't, there are four scenarios coming in here, and I, as a former prognostic, love the scripts, and I think some artists will be quite happy -- I'm going to turn in the wrong direction again -- when I conclude with these four scenarios. [[to the government bench]] Screenplay one. Minister Babiš finds in the budget, and he has an enviable period of four months, sufficient reserves for government promises to be fulfilled, because, as you know, the first draft of the State Budget Act is submitted to the government in June. In that case, everything will be fine, and we will propose Mr. Babiš to the Nobel Prize for Economics. In the latter case, there will be a situation where it will be necessary, of course, to enter into budget gaps, the Scandinavian model, the solidarity of the richer with the poorer, the progressive taxation of personal income, the adjustments to corporate tax, VAT adjustments and, after all, the introduction of a sector tax, which the coalition talks about with great hesitation and with great doubt, and which I fully support. This is an optimistic scenario in both cases and both of these scenarios can even complement each other. And then they follow two pessimistic scenarios. Scenario One: The government will announce, as was once said by one true statement that our promises were not embedded in a real economic context, and thus it will gradually begin to lose the trust of citizens. Screenplay Two: The government will fulfill its promises at the cost of further disproportionate debt, at the cost of handing out pre-election gifts, because we have some elections everywhere - now the Euroelections, which I recently announced on 23 and 24 May, then municipal elections, then Senate elections, and before elections unpopular measures are not taken with much joy. However, this indebtion would inevitably lead us to exceed the 3% limit of the Maastricht criteria and to cut off the path to entry into the euro area, which I have been resolutely recommending for several years. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am coming to the conclusion of my performance. I said that my remarks would be friendly, and so would my comment towards the new President of the House of Jan Hamáček, who said that the House was to be a workshop. And I remember when I also gave my first speech in 1996 as President of the Chamber of Deputies, I said that the House should be a workshop from which good laws will come. I would be satisfied if, in the first instance, these good laws were a service law that would finally remove political traders, that irresistible desire of political parties without exception to occupy with its party officials all the important places in the resorts that fell to them, and by party members all the insignificant places, including doorkeepers and cleaners. The problem of expertise raised by the law of service destroys the dilemma or dichotomy that we encountered during discussions on the composition of the government. Either you're an expert or you're a politician. And I'm telling you, you can be both. Remember two former finance ministers. Was Alois Rašín a politician? Undoubtedly, yes. Was he an economist? Undoubtedly, yes. And his point of view, Karel Engliš, was both a politician and an economist. Especially those who have successfully managed something in life, whether it was a community, a city, or a company, know that these two functions can be fulfilled. Baťa was mayor of Zlín, a politician, and of course, who would doubt it, even a very successful businessman, even if he failed three times at the beginning of his career. Therefore, do not trust those who put an artificial line between experts and politicians. With a little goodwill, we can find people who meet both criteria at the same time, and that is what the service law should do. Secondly, of the three laws that should come out of this workshop, I consider the law on proof of the origin of income and property. The government's programming statement only mentions it in the chapter of the Ministry of Finance, and unfortunately, to my regret, Prime Minister, it was not mentioned in the priorities of the government. However, if we want to combat corruption effectively, that is all we have left. Two years ago, 2120 illegally acquired property was seized in Germany under a similar law. I would very much like to see how many illegally acquired assets would be confiscated in the Czech Republic if a similar law finally applied in our country. Well, finally, the third law is the law of laws, the state budget law. And here I assume I'm gonna fight the government and I'm gonna fight you. [[11.50 hours]] I'm defending something you might call a presidential mantra. The only way to overcome enormously high unemployment is not the constant, often confused changes in the type of active employment policy where money is just being thrown away without a real effect. The only way to overcome unemployment is investment. Investment creating new jobs, again in addition to short-term investment and large-scale investment, which people sometimes call small thinking as megalomanic projects just because they go beyond the fascinating four years. Yesterday, my friends, I was in South Bohemia. Jakub Krčín of Jelčan and Sedlčan built a waterworks whose retention capacity is greater than the retention capacity of the Vltava cascade, regardless of the fact that it is an attractive work for tourism. If the Green Party were to rule in the Rožmber estate back then, we had cozy mosquitoes with lots of mosquitoes and no waterwork would have been created because greenery would have called them a megaloman project. Therefore, although I know that investment is a thwart, that investment does not have the right to vote, that occasional cutting of tapes has less effect than when you put a social benefit in the citizens' hands, yet - and this is the presidential mantra - I am very much in favour of finally increasing the share of investment in the new State Budget Act, because otherwise we condemn ourselves to further increasing unemployment, albeit with a delay in time, because certain growth in labour productivity with a slight economic recovery does not guarantee that new labour will be absorbed. After all, I judge, as old Cato said, that we need to invest from the crisis, and that the one who rejects sensible intelligent investment, not waterpark monuments, that the one who rejects these investments, harms this economy and harms this country, because unemployment is not just a loss of economic opportunities. Unemployment is a social problem because it is a loss of human dignity. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to conclude by congratulating those who have been re-elected to this Chamber of Deputies. It meant going through the test of fire, in many cases obtaining preferential votes, and thus the trust of voters, not just party secretariats. And I'm glad they're here. At the same time, I would like to congratulate more than 110 Members who got here for the first time, and, as a person who has already experienced something in politics, I would like to give them a friendly warning at the end of my speech. You'll be the subject of a media campaign. There's nothing wrong with that. You know my opinion of journalists, but sometimes at least one or two critical arguments come out of them, not just swearing. But I would like to draw attention to the phenomenon that will appear when the new Members - the older ones are tougher - open the Internet. And they open up so-called Internet discussions, where at least a third of these discussions have authors hiding under all sorts of anonymous nicknames. And these authors don't argue, they just bitch. These are people whose envy has grown into pathological hatred of all who are more capable than they are of themselves, that is, all of them. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] These are people whom Tomáš Masaryk, in a somewhat different context, referred to as the pathological saddle of Czech society. And here I would follow up on my inaugural speech, where I asked you not to be poisoned. Do not be poisoned by envious, unhappy, perhaps, although I am not a psychiatrist, even mentally ill people who pour out their hate complexes with the help of a new communication medium. Honor your actions according to the results of your work and according to nothing but these results. Popularity surveys can be implemented. Here was the most popular here Vladimír Dlouhý, Pavel Bém, Stanislav Gross. Where are they today? Do not rate yourself according to the popularity survey, evaluate yourself according to the results. Finally, I wish you all 200 Members to consider your term of office, your stay in this submarine, the most interesting and useful period of your life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-000-999.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, I am interrupting the meeting for 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-000-999.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to take your seats, all of you, with identification cards and, if necessary, to tell me who is asking for a replacement card. The following Members shall have replacement cards: 1 - Mr Vojtěch Adam, replacement card No. 3 - Mrs Jana Lorencová, replacement card No. 2 - Mr Ladislav Velebný, replacement card No. 5 - Mr. MP and Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. I say that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Mr Ivan Gabal - health reasons, Mr Radim Holeček - family reasons, Mr Rom Kostřica - health reasons, Mr Michal Kučera - health reasons, Mr Jaroslav Lobkowicz - working reasons, Mrs Nina Nováková - foreign travel, Mrs Pavlína Nytrová - health reasons, Mr Milan Šarapatka - family reasons and Mr Pavel Volčík - health reasons. We will now proceed to item 60 of our program. We will therefore remove Ms Nytrová, who is present, from the apologies. The next one to be removed from the apology is Mr Radim Holeček, who is also present. I have here an application with the priority right of the Member, Mr Stanďura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-000-999.u6	I think it's going a little differently, my last name, but so be it. Good morning. Before we begin to discuss paragraph 60, I would like to propose a solid inclusion of a point within the agenda of this meeting. When you open your servers, many of you have tablets or laptops in front of you, so you can see that today the situation in Ukraine is escalating again. [[Dissenting screams from the left side of the hall.]] We've made a lot of progress in the debate... Maybe you wouldn't have to scream in dissent, you'll take a vote. Okay, if you don't care, the situation, you want to go home fast or get hockey fast, so be it. I would like to propose a firm inclusion of paragraph 72 - The current situation in Ukraine and the position of the Government of the Czech Republic after the conclusion of the discussion of paragraph 60. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-000-999.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone else want to sign up for the program? It's not like that. We will now vote on Mr Stanjura's proposal to include paragraph 72 firmly after the conclusion of paragraph 60. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Against? I'm done with the vote. In voting order number 172, 190 Members registered, for 50, against 60. The motion was denied. We will now proceed to discussing this point.
