ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-001-084.u1	84. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the rámcový Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of the Philippines, on the other, signed in Phnom Penh on 11 July 2012 (the House Document 222/ - first reading) I'll ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to take his seat at the rapporteur's table. I also ask Mr Rostislav Vyzula, who is the rapporteur for this press. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to take the floor at the same time. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-001-084.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you three framework agreements here today that the European Union would like to conclude with three countries in Asia, or better with the ASEAN countries. The first one I would like to present is the EU-Filippine Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation. Let me tell you a few things about her that may be good to remember here if we are to vote on this treaty. I would like to point out that this is, in fact, not the first treaty that the EU is thus concluding with one of the ASEAN countries. The first one was Indonesia, and now we have the Philippines, and I'm going to present Vietnam to you in a moment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is quite a crucial step that the EU is taking, because Indonesia - that was 250 miles. the population, the Philippines - that's a hundred million, and Vietnam - that's actually almost 100 million, too. So that's a total of 450 million people - a partner. And it is actually the first time in history that the EU has thus concluded this type of partnership and cooperation agreement with the ASEAN countries. As far as the Philippines is concerned, the Philippines is also quite a very interesting country, as Indonesia was. In the Philippines, I would point out that the Philippines today, according to analyses, should reach the rungs of a country that will be among the twenty largest economies in the world in the early years. I have seen an analysis in which the Philippines is believed to be the world's sixteenth largest economy in 2050. I would support this by saying that in 2013, the Philippines had an economic growth of 7.2 percent, which is actually China's second largest economic growth, GDP growth in Asian countries. It is a country that I think is also an interesting partner for the Czech Republic today. I would like to remind you that the first person who exported from the Czech Republic or from Czechoslovakia to the Philippines was our businessman Baťa and we are currently quite successful in the export of electronics. The Philippines announced modernization of the army and there are many opportunities for Czech companies. So I think, in general, our position in the Philippines is very good, because the history of relations between the Philippines and the Czech Republic is very positive. Czech Jesuits have already arrived in the Philippines at the end of the 17th century and since then Čech have been there, quite a number of Čech are very famous there, and even some are part of Filipino textbooks in schools. So I can recommend this contract. I think it is a very good thing for the Czech Republic to participate in this within the EU and to support the conclusion of this Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with the Republic of the Philippines. I can assure you that ratification of this treaty will not assume any financial or budgetary implications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-001-084.u3	I thank the Minister, including his historical excursion to relations between the Czech Republic and the Republic of the Philippines. I ask the rapporteur to take up his intelligence report. Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-001-084.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Basically, the main thing was said. I would just like to stress that this is indeed a comprehensive agreement involving cooperation in all perhaps areas of policy, trade, culture and others. Among other things, there is also the fight against drug trafficking and money laundering, which is therefore sympathetic to me, certainly. Interesting information about this treaty is that the government has already agreed to the agreement on 14 December 2010 and after four years we are now getting to the first reading. The fact is that the Parliament of the Czech Republic received this agreement in June 2013, but as a result of the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, the agreement was not discussed. So I'm just saying, on the basis of everything, that the Republic of the Philippines may not have a problem with anyone, that is not a controversial treaty, on the contrary, it is an asset, and I recommend that it be approved for second reading with a view to discussing it in the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-001-084.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. I note that I have no written application for the general debate. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I ask if anyone will have a motion on the commandment of another committee for discussion, because the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the proposal to be discussed by the Foreign Committee, the rapporteur repeated it. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I therefore see no proposal for a vote other than a commandment to the Foreign Committee. That is what we will decide in voting order number 88, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment of this treaty to the foreign committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 88, from the present 173 for 128, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 84. Proceeding with item 85 firmly. The Minister has taken his seat, but I will ask him again to come to the rapporteur's table, because this treaty is his. It's about
