ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-012-027.u1	27. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Protocol on the amendment and addition of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on legal assistance provided by judicial authorities and on the modification of certain legal relations in civil and criminal matters of 29 October 1992 and its Final Protocol signed at Uherské Hradiště on 29 October 2012 /house printing 110/ - first reading I ask the Minister to present this press as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-012-027.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we are almost at home now and will be transferred from Hong Kong to the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. The situation is completely different because, of course, there was a treaty between the Czech Republic and Slovakia on legal assistance provided by judicial authorities and on the regulation of certain legal relations in civil and criminal matters and its final protocol. It was signed in Prague on October 29, 1992. She also proved herself. [[10.50 hours]] It has become such a basis for good bilateral judicial cooperation. However, over the course of time certain gaps, shortcomings, problems have proved and a government proposal, the protocol for which I would like to obtain your consent to its ratification, the amendment and addition of the agreement between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on legal aid, has already taken into account all these experiences and I think that it will significantly improve the quality of contractual relations between the two states. As regards mutual assistance in the application of the Institute of Cooperation in Criminal Matters, it shall be provided to the extent, under the conditions and in the manner laid down in the relevant multilateral conventions, unless otherwise provided for in this Treaty. The aim is, in particular, to simplify, where appropriate on the basis of experience, to supplement national legislation with a view to the exercise of legally binding acts of the European Union. The Protocol lays down the general principle of direct contact between judicial authorities in the provision of legal assistance. An exception shall be the cases where criminal proceedings relating to criminal offences may be transferred for which, under the law of the requesting Contracting Party, a sentence of imprisonment may be imposed for a period exceeding five years. So that's the line between crime and crime when it comes to its deliberate form of execution. So if he's been there for the last five years, in that case, those cases of transfer of criminal matters are governed by another regime. The Protocol also provides for an exception to the general principle of speciality in the issue, transfer of persons. However, this principle is not broken to its own citizens, and in specific or specific cases the same independent court decides. So even here, I can say with good conscience, we have nothing to worry about if there was such a specific case that there would be an automatic extradition or handover of the person. It would be the court's decision. In the case of the transfer of sentenced persons, the Protocol extends the circle of persons who may be transferred to the territory of the other Contracting State for the execution of the sentence of imprisonment by sentenced persons who are not nationals of the other Contracting Party but who have permanent residence in its territory, which I think is very practical. The Protocol also provides for situations where cross-border monitoring is carried out solely using technical means of tracing movement without the assistance of the other Contracting Party. A procedure and conditions shall be laid down for monitoring the consignment, obtaining evidence in criminal matters using an agent or by means of a pretend transfer of cooperation in the form of joint investigation teams or transmitting classified information. In all these cases, I think that this is really just a use of accumulated experience and also a comparison of the current situation that is currently needed in prisons in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. As we know, before the January 1, 2013, amnesty, we had overcrowded prisons, Slovakia did not. So even in these cases, when it is an assessment of the transfer of such sentenced persons who have permanent residence in the territory of the other Republic, it is possible to proceed very practically. At the same time, if we approve the protocol, and of course, it's legislatively clear. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The conclusion of the Protocol is in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic and will help international judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. The protocol is in accordance with constitutional order, with other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic as well as obligations arising for the Czech Republic from international law and its membership of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-012-027.u3	Madam Secretary, I am very sorry, but I am asking for peace in the House. The noise level is no longer bearable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-012-027.u4	I know that this is not as interesting as all the agreements between the Czech Republic and Hong Kong, but this protocol is much more important and will certainly apply much more in its impact in practice than the previous international treaties. Implementation of the Protocol will be under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. We do not expect any increased cost of the state budget. If we compare the funds to be spent on legal aid by the Czech judicial authorities with the funds invested by the Slovak party, such an analysis has been prepared and the costs are roughly comparable. I think that the quality of bilateral judicial cooperation in criminal matters has long been very high in the Czech Republic's view, and I think that if we now have a positive assessment of the proposed and already signed protocol, this cooperation will further improve and may become a model for cooperation with other neighbouring countries. Thank you for your attention. I recommend, of course, a positive assessment of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-012-027.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Please the rapporteur, who is Mr Pavel Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-012-027.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only like to recommend its discussion to the Foreign Committee after the comprehensive introduction of this government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-012-027.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I don't have any applications for it, so I'm done. I'll ask if there's any other proposal for a commandment than for a foreign committee. [[No one's checking in.]] It's not like that. So we're going to vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that we order this press to the Foreign Committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 57, registered is 157, for 128, there was no one against it. This proposal was adopted. We have ordered this press to the Foreign Committee. I'm done discussing point 27. Now I'm gonna ask the finance minister if he thinks we can handle at least one press in four minutes. [[The Minister answers to the Prime Minister off the microphone, he doesn't understand.]] Okay. Because point 56 is firmly placed at 11 o'clock. But let's try at least one. So I'm opening a point.
