ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u1	109. Oral inhalation Mrs Pavlína Nytrová, on the matter of property returns to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, will speak as the first oral interview. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Prime Minister, allow me to interpel you on the bill of proof of the origin of the property. I believe that property returns can contribute to the elimination of corruption. This view is shared by a significant proportion of citizens. Corruption is a major global phenomenon. In order to combat corruption, the government should, among other things, promote the honesty, responsibility and morality of its public officials, rules of conduct in the interests of the correct and fair exercise of office. Corruption poses an important threat to the stability and security of society by undermining the institutions and values of democracy, ethical values and justice, threatening sustainable development and legality. Proving the origin of property is a basic anti-corruption measure. It is necessary to set up a law on showing property so that it is a whip to catch large fish, dishonest lobbyists and godparents, and not a law that restricts people with normal property. An important point of proof of property is the setting of the limit from which the property return is to be made and the determination of which institution decides to prove the origin of the property and income, whether the courts or the financial authorities or, where applicable, the institutions. other institutions. Dear Prime Minister, at what stage is the preparation of one of the government priorities - the Property Proving Act, and what are the basic parameters of the law? [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u3	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer on when he'll present his property return. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I have a feeling you didn't exactly listen to the lady and her interpellation. I listened to her very accurately, which is why I would take the liberty of responding to her. Madam, I would like to remind you that the question of the law on proof of the origin of property is part of the coalition agreement, so it has become part of the government's programming declaration. The Act on the demonstration of the origin of property in justified and legally specified cases should allow the tax administrator to require that a natural person demonstrate that his property corresponds to the income declared in the past by that natural person for taxation. It is therefore a matter for us to put into our legal system the issue of transferring the burden of proof from the tax office to the taxpayer in cases where there is a clearly large difference between the income reported by the tax payer and the property acquired by the taxpayer. We agreed within the government coalition that we would try to get this institute into our legal order. I consider this a breakthrough from the point of view of the situation in our country, because for 25 years there has been only talk of the law on property admission. No government has yet been able to enforce it into our legal order, whether for political reasons, perhaps some governments have not had the will to bring such an institute into the legal order. I would also like to remind you that, in the early 1990's, a certain possibility and assumption for property returns to be introduced in our legal order already existed, but in the end this provision was removed from the legal order in the 1990's. In the middle of this year, i.e. in the summer, I suppose the Ministry of Finance will submit an analysis of the variants in which the Czech Republic could have legal proof of the origin of the property. On the basis of the Government's legislative plan, we expect that in September of this year, in September 2014, the Government could discuss a draft law in which the Institute of Proof of the Origin of Property would be established. I think it is very important for this institute to be implemented across the board. I know that the debate is that the property should be shown primarily by politicians. But I think it is important that the tax office has, in principle, an unlimited opportunity to prosecute and investigate all situations where there is a big difference between what the taxpayer has declared for income and the property it is acquiring. As former Finance Minister, I can confirm that the financial authorities are very often helpless simply because they lack sufficient legislative tools to examine such assets. There are situations where taxpayers who have not shown any income in the long run and have not paid any taxes, for example, acquire large-scale real estate and it is not at all clear where they came from such property. You also mentioned in your interpellation the issue of corruption and the need to combat corruption. It is the Institute of Property Proving that can serve as an important preventive tool in combating corruption and, above all, in combating the legalisation of illegal income obtained by criminal activity, for example by receiving bribes. The same applies to any other means obtained from other criminal activities. If the financial authorities acquire this instrument, it will be very difficult in the Czech Republic to legalise any financial instruments and financial resources acquired in connection with the violation of laws, in connection with corruption, in relation to serious economic crime. I believe that not only the citizens of the Czech Republic will welcome the introduction of the Institute of Proof of the Origin of Property, but undoubtedly also the tax authorities, police officers, prosecutors, judges, because the systems that we have in our country that are designed to combat tax evasion or to combat serious economic crime, including corruption, are currently lacking this instrument, which means the possibility of revealing such legalisation of untaxed funds. So much so briefly as an answer to your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the lady if she has an additional question. He doesn't. I thank the Prime Minister and Mrs Nytrová. With another oral interview for the Prime Minister, Mr František Vácha is entered and won on the matter of helping Syrian refugees. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u6	Mr President, the honourable remnants of the Chamber of Deputies, I must say it is a strange feeling to speak to someone who sits behind your back, but I think it will get to you, Mr President. Prime Minister, in March of this year, you received a letter asking Amnesty International to assist you actively in resolving the crisis with refugees from Syria. We all know that due to a long-standing conflict that is in Syria, or perhaps not all of us know, about 2.5 million people are currently registered in a state of refugees. Amnesty International is turning to the governments of European countries to play an active role in resolving this situation in some way. We are currently holding a petition event called SOS Syria, in which Amnesty International again asks us to involve the Czech Republic in helping these refugees. So, Prime Minister, I would just like to ask you if the Government of the Czech Republic will respond to this emerging refugee crisis and if we can help these refugees in an active way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u8	Thank you. Dear Member, the situation today is that the Czech Republic is actually one of the few, perhaps one of the last Western countries that has not closed its embassy in Damascus, and in this sense our embassy serves as a contact point for the countries of the European Union and the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance. I am very pleased that the operation of this embassy also serves to enable the Czech Republic to monitor the situation in Syria very closely, both political and security, as well as humanitarian situations. At the moment, I am unable to provide accurate information on how entities from the Czech Republic are involved in a largely humanitarian disaster, which occurs as a result of a relatively large number of refugees from Syria who are deployed in neighbouring countries. In any case, the Czech Republic is involved in the activities organized by society, the United Nations, and I would then provide you with detailed information from the Foreign Minister on this matter, to what extent the Czech Republic is directly contributing to humanitarian activities that help people who have had to leave their homes in Syria as a result of the civil war there. Of course, at this point, it cannot be predicted exactly how the situation in Syria will continue to evolve. There have been presidential elections, as it seems, the current government and the current president have largely stabilized their influence. However, this does not mean that fighting will end on Syria's territory, and this does not mean that much of these refugees could return to Syria in some short time. I therefore want to promise for the Government of the Czech Republic that we will continue to monitor this situation, and I am ready to provide you with precise information on how the Czech Republic is involved in helping refugees and through which humanitarian organisations this assistance is provided.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would like to ask Mr Vácha a supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u10	Thank you. That won't even be a question. I would just like to point out that there are several proposals in both the letter and the petition as the Czech Republic could help these refugees. So if you could take a look at the petition and the letter and answer me at the same time as your answer, how we will or will respond to the proposals that are in the petition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u11	Thank you, Mr Vách. I don't think the Prime Minister's gonna answer the question. With another interpelation - the third - Mr. Jiří Petrů is registered in the case of competition of the Czech Republic in the European Union. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u12	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues, I will specify - the competitiveness of the Czech Republic in the European Union. Dear Prime Minister, in November 2011, Minister Martin Kocourek, on the basis of the documents of the National Economic Council of the Government for the Government, presented material called the Strategy for International Competitiveness of the Czech Republic for the period 2012 to 2020 and proudly stated that this material would be prepared by the Czech Republic for the future in a globalised world. The strategy includes more than 40 key and several hundred sub-measures, through which, as it says, will create friendly conditions for creative entrepreneurship, innovation and growth. It is not the first material to focus on the future of the Czech economy, in 2005 a similar material was created to set out a strategy until 2013. Unfortunately, the Minister was no longer concerned with why this document had not been completed. According to this year's competitiveness ranking, which was recently published by the World Economic Forum, the Czech Republic has offended by two places compared to the previous 2012 assessment and by four places against the 2010 report. The first places are Finland, Sweden and the Netherlands, and the Czech Republic is only after Lithuania on the 18th place. According to the report, we have major problems with the deterioration of the business environment or the lack of innovation and, for example, the availability of the latest technologies. I ask, Prime Minister, will your government deal with this situation? What steps will they take to improve the competitiveness of the Czech Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u13	Thank you, Mr Petrů. I ask Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u14	Thank you. Dear Member, if the Czech Republic is not suffering from something, it is a lack of various concepts that have been developed in recent years, including recommendations and concepts concerning strengthening our country's competitiveness. I want to assure you that the government's aim is not to self-promote a number of concepts and materials that, in theory, would push the Czech Republic forward on hundreds of pages, but our aim is to take concrete steps, which will also have clear, measurable results in terms of the future shift of the Czech Republic to the ranking, which compares the competitiveness of individual countries. There is not only the International Competitiveness Strategy of the Czech Republic, but naturally there is also the Partnership Agreement, which will serve as a basis for drawing funds from the European Union. There are other conceptual documents that influence and influence our competitiveness, such as the updated energy concept, raw materials policy. In terms of what we specifically want to focus on, at the moment, it is mainly the content and form of the individual operational programmes that provide for the possibility of drawing funds from the European Union in the coming years. This means that the conceptual document of the Partnership Agreement, which we have already submitted to the European Commission, will now be followed up by individual operational programmes, which should also be submitted to the European Commission by mid-July this year. The government has the ambition that all of these key documents for drawing more than CZK 500 billion from the European Union by 2020 that we have the opportunity to use will be approved by the end of this year at European Commission level to reach agreement with the European Union by the end of this year, and that the first calls for drawing on these funds, which, among other things, will also be devoted to those key areas where we see weaknesses in competitiveness, could be announced in the first quarter of 2015. The key thing is, if we have funds here in the range of about 500 billion crowns, so that we can use them in time and there are no problems that we are dealing with now. This means that past governments have initially taken on delays in the use of European Union money, and unfortunately, that is now even theoretically impossible to catch up. So the first concrete step towards strengthening our country's competitiveness is to use the resources we have at our disposal and to start pumping and using them on time, efficiently, from the very beginning of 2015. This will, of course, place emphasis or demands on entities not only from the public sector but also from the business sphere, so that, on the basis of the relevant challenges, the relevant projects can also be prepared in a timely manner so that the approval process can be implemented quickly. If we are talking about those other areas where it is important that we contribute to strengthening our country's competitiveness, another key area is the issue of enough skilled labour. This will undoubtedly require a continuation of regional education reform. I am thinking, in particular, of secondary vocational and vocational education, where the government will want to strengthen the relationship between secondary schools, schools and firms as part of the reform. This means getting as close as possible to a successful dual model that works in Germany or Austria. [[14.50 hours]] What can strengthen our competitiveness is naturally good transport infrastructure. The government has been focusing from the very beginning on the approval of laws that should enable the completion of key road connections in our country, which should in particular connect the Czech Republic with the surrounding states, i.e. contribute to the creation of a regional labour market. We have submitted a law that increases the purchase prices under communications, when building new roads, we want to submit an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which would speed up public procurement, we want to present a law on line construction that would allow strategic line construction to be built in a faster way than we have been able to do so far, while the government wants to allocate enough resources in the budget to support the construction of transport infrastructure. Naturally, we also want to pay attention to the stability of the business and legal environment in our country, we also want our countries to have certain fiscal stability after years of dramatic tax changes at the last minute, and naturally we also want to focus on effectively supporting science, research and innovation, in particular allowing access to innovation for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. With the fourth interview, Mr Antonín Seďa, who will interpel the Prime Minister in the matter of supporting the spa, is prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, I come from a region where spa has a great tradition. Not only Lázně Luhačovice, but also other newly created spas had to solve problems with payment decree and especially with the form of the existing indication list. Your government has already presented a plan to save Czech and Moravian spa. I believe we agree that promises should be fulfilled. Dear Prime Minister, I would therefore like to ask about this plan and its implementation, in particular the concrete measures to make spa care available to our citizens, especially for rehabilitation care. At the same time, I would like to know the timetable, perhaps an approximate timetable, if it already exists, for the adoption of the necessary legislative measures by the government. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u17	I thank the honourable Member and ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u18	I thank Mr Seďa for touching the area which is, I think, very characteristic and very interesting from the point of view of the Czech Republic, on the one hand, as regards the overall quality of health care that we are able to provide here in the Czech Republic to citizens, but spa is also an important area which creates employment, and it is of course also an important area which increases the attractiveness of the Czech Republic from the point of view of tourism. The spa is developed in a number of regions of our country, and the interventions that have been implemented in recent years have led to a decline in the spa and have also led to a decline in employment. I am convinced that the government should take consistent steps to improve the situation in the area of spa, and I am glad that it is doing so. Unfortunately, the original intention of the Ministry of Health to issue a new indicative list to be valid since spring of this year was violated by the recent finding of the Constitutional Court. The Ministry of Health assessed this finding by the Constitutional Court and decided to solve the problem by preparing an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, in which, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's finding, the entitlement to spa care in question will be defined and, at the same time, an implementing regulation will be prepared, a decree setting out the professional medical criteria for the provision of spa care. The draft amendment will also reflect proposals for substantive changes agreed by the Working Group to prepare the draft new indicative list, which was set up by the Ministry of Health and which was based on proposals from the Association of Spa Baths, Association of Spa Places and further knowledge of the application of the regulations in practice, which has been collected by the Ministry of Health. Currently, a memorandum of the Ministry of Health, the General Health Insurance Company, the Association of Health Insurance Companies and the Association of Medical Spa is also being prepared to support Czech spa and mutual cooperation in this area. With regard to the changes that should be part of the support, and the higher support, the spa, it is a question of extending the treatment stays of patients with some serious diseases from 21 to 28 days, that is, I think, the most important change that is being prepared. This applies mainly to diseases of the circulatory, respiratory and musculoskeletal tract, mental disorders, skin and gynaecological diseases. People with severe illness will be able to take a spa stay more often and repeatedly. At the same time, the possibility will be extended for children to extend the existing limit of 28 days of spa stay for an unlimited period, even if the spa stay is repeated. In our opinion, a spa rehabilitation stay is an important part of the comprehensive treatment of patients, it is necessary to support it. As regards the expected impact on health insurance expenditure at the time when these changes were put into practice, annual costs should not exceed CZK 500 million, by which reimbursements by health insurance companies towards facilities providing spa care would be increased. I am convinced that these funds will not only contribute to improving citizens' health, but will also promote employment and support the development of a tourist region in a wide range of areas where the spa is creating a very important and key resource for new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Seďa. I ask his follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I agree with you that the spa is also taking on other services. I just have a question: Because the spa itself is a big part of tourism, so if your government is preparing some measures to support the spa, but I would rather say commercial activities that would be directed precisely towards the development of tourism. Let me give you an example: it is a matter of transport, transport connections, it is a question of e.g. local airports, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u21	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Prime Minister for his follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u22	Certainly, Mr Member, if you are interested in specific possible forms of support for the spa that are being discussed at the moment, I would refer you to the Ministry of Regional Development, because I know that there is an intensive discussion on how to use the resources from the European Union in the coming years to support me. promotion of Czech spa. In addition to what you mentioned, visa policy is also important. We need to get a stronger foreign clientele for our spa, we need to get more self-payers to stabilize them economically so that our spa is less dependent on the clients our health insurance companies pay for. And here I think it's important to look at new destinations where the government can help. We are specifically trying to focus on Arab countries in particular, we are trying to focus on China, we are trying to focus on Eastern states in order to find ways to flexible, to maximise the flexibility of the visa regime, to expand the possibility of places where interested parties for our spa care can deal with administrative barriers related to obtaining visas. We believe that if the government is able to make visa policy more flexible in this, this could bring a relatively significant number of new clients who will be able to pay not only for spa care, but also for accompanying services that can create new jobs in the spa regions during their stay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u23	I thank the Prime Minister and Mr Seďa. With the fifth interview, Mr Stanislav Polčák, who will interpel the Prime Minister in the matter of promoting micro-business, is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Before I mention a few words of my interpelation, I must express my wonder that of the 22 interpelling to the Prime Minister there are 15 of the ČSSD. It seems to me that you probably don't speak to each other in the ČSSD and you have to discuss it here at the official time of the opposition. I find it quite rude. However, to my intervention concerning the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. Prime Minister, I'm sure we agree that an increase in rural employment is desirable. We can also agree that the use of European funds is an appropriate means to increase it. I therefore believe that we also agree on a specific way, even though the current approach of one of your government's ministries does not suggest this. The Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is responsible for the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, prevents the allocation of the necessary amount of funds. At the same time, these funds distributed through local action groups could bring about an increase in rural employment as a result of the development of micro-businesses without major difficulties. The position of the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the method of community-led local development and, above all, on rural micro-businesses is completely incomprehensible, considering that CzechInvest agencies do not reach the territory and that it is rural areas that are facing unemployment. Dear Prime Minister, more than CZK 100 billion will be distributed in the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness in the upcoming programming period. Common sense says that at least part of them should be directed towards developing micro-business in rural areas. If not, your government owes an explanation not only to micro-businesses but also to the unemployed from rural areas. I wish you didn't have to give that explanation in the future. Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u25	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u26	Thank you. Dear Member, I can assure you that, as Prime Minister, it is really not my fault that very few opposition Members have found the incentive to submit an interview. I was also very surprised. On the one hand, the fact that there are so few members of the opposition groups present, and at the same time that so few opposition Members have had any reason to intervene. They're probably happy with the government's activities, and that's, I think, a good card for the government that there's so little opposition interference. That didn't happen in the past. And now for your question. I believe that the problem you highlighted is a problem that really exists. Indeed, there is now a debate on the issue of regional dimension or territorial dimension in individual operational programmes. The same applies to the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, i.e. OP PIK, is its abbreviation. This is an operational program guaranteed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The debate is going on about who will manage the funds for small businesses, which means for micro-enterprises whether they will be involved in the administration of these funds. LAGs, this means local action groups, or whether the administration of these funds will take place within the entire administration of the Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, which is in charge of CzechInvest, which is the implementing agency of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and this operational programme. The debate is not yet over, but the Ministry of Industry and Trade believes that in terms of the efficiency of managing these funds, it would be wiser for implementation not to be fragmented so that it is concentrated in the hands of CzechInvest. At the same time, the Ministry of Industry and Trade proposes a national network of local action groups to send their representatives to the monitoring committee of the relevant operational programme and also offers cooperation in preparing the specific content of the calls to be launched for micro-businesses. I want to assure you that sufficient funds will be earmarked for micro-businesses within this operational programme, regardless of how administration or implementation of this programme will then be carried out, whether the administrator will be CzechInvest, or whether local action groups will be more involved. This means that the funds will be earmarked, and the discussion must be about the impact of local action groups on the distribution of these funds. I understand that people who form local action groups come from a rural environment, are close to a rural environment, feel prepared to provide sufficient information to distribute these funds or to set criteria for the distribution of these funds. I would personally advocate that there should continue to be an intensive dialogue between local action groups and the Ministry of Industry and Trade in order to ensure that the money available to us under the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness reaches those beneficiaries who need it and who can use it effectively, that is, to really get to micro-enterprises in the countryside. And maybe one last comment. What we are discussing now is also a question of how to unite the network of implementing agencies in regions in a certain way. There is a discussion about the so-called European houses, i.e. places that would exist in each region and where all key implementation agencies would be represented in one place, so that the grant applicant in one place always finds the relevant contact point in each region with which he could fine-tune the information needed for the submission of the relevant applications. This means, we are trying, say, to simplify the contact model for citizens, for entrepreneurs, for public sector entities and for individual implementation agencies for individual operational programmes. So much so briefly as a response to your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would like to ask Mr Polčák's supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u28	Thank you. Prime Minister, in my opinion, there is not much time for dialogue at this time, because your government has here to present this implementation structure in Brussels as soon as possible. Therefore, I will specifically ask whether you support that local action groups can distribute these funds in this operational programme, or whether your selected government-supported entity will be CzechInvest. I say this first of all because, as far as I know, the CzechInvest agency has already been the subject of several investigations and has been the subject of police investigations. Therefore, I do not know such problems at the level of the local action group. If you believe that it will better support micro-businesses by CzechInvest, that it will even reach these micro-businesses in rural areas, please make it very clear here. If you want to pursue this dialogue, I think your government has had enough time to do that. And if he is to make a final decision to Brussels in the coming weeks, I think that you should also have a clear word. Thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u29	Then perhaps, Mr Member, you will have to remind me of some particular case where CzechInvest was investigated in connection with the distribution of European funds. I don't recall any particular case at the moment. I can only say that the drawing of funds from the operational programme managed by CzechInvest is not suspended and that in any case this operational programme is not one of the operational programmes where the biggest losses for the Czech Republic would be at risk. These are rather operational programmes - Operational Programme Environment and Operational Programme VaVpI. These are most at risk in terms of potential losses at the moment. As far as the preparation of the relevant documents in the Government is concerned, the documents have not yet been approved. Until the government approves the operational programme and if the government does not approve the materials relating to the territorial dimension, it is not yet decided and a dialogue can take place between the national network of local action groups and the Ministry of Industry and Trade until then. I want to assure you that the implementation agency CzechInvest has extensive experience with the use of funds from the European Union. During this completed programming period, it supported over 11,000 projects. Eleven thousand projects were administered through CzechInvest. And as far as micro-businesses are concerned, they have gained roughly CZK 3.5 billion through some of these projects. CzechInvest has experience. And I believe that in a situation where one of our country's main problems is the slowness of drawing funds from the European Union and the slow run of drawing funds from the European Union, because we are experiencing a consummation of the completion of the old and the beginning of a new financial perspective, I would rather bet on experience, but I would also bet on good cooperation between local action groups and CzechInvest. This means that local action groups can help establish criteria for the distribution of funds and can participate in monitoring the functioning of CzechInvest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u30	I thank the Prime Minister, although he did not answer clearly. Mrs Gabriela Pecková, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the Lanzarot Convention, is prepared with further intervention. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u31	Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. According to statistics, one of the five children in Europe will be victims of sexual violence. Yet the Czech Republic was the only one not to join the Lanzarot Convention, which is one of the main methodological tools in the fight against sexual violence against children. I would hardly find anyone among you who wouldn't consider sexual violence against children one of the worst crimes ever. The position of the Czech Republic on the last Health Committee of the Council of Europe and the lax attitude of your government have been worse defended. The legislative barrier has fallen, the criminal liability of legal persons required for ratification we have, the convention has passed through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, and yet I still do not find it on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I am convinced of the support of 200 Members across the political spectrum and the public. But we can't come to your government for convention. So I ask when you will discuss it and when you will move it to our Chamber of Deputies, so that we do not have to be ashamed that the Czech Republic does not support the fight against violence against children. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u32	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u33	Thank you. Madam, I feel a bit like a morning here when we talked about the government doing nothing in the situation of Czech children in Norway after the withdrawal of children in 2011. Now it's 2014, the government's been here four months, and the opposition's been blaming her this morning for not doing enough, or for not doing anything at all. And I always have to ask, and what have those previous governments done that they've had for years? The same is true of the convention you mentioned. The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children Against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse was opened for signature on 25 October 2007 in Lanzarote. October 25th, 2007. And you come now, in June 2014, after seven years, and you ask how it is possible that the government that has been here since February 2014 has not secured ratification of this treaty. I ask how it is possible that the governments of Jiří Rusnok, Petr Nečas, Jan Fischer and Mirek Topolánek, who were here seven years ago, did not ensure ratification of this treaty. How is it possible that something like this happened? But the interpelations are not for the Prime Minister to ask the MP. The Member has the right to ask the Prime Minister. And I want you to know that according to the documents I received from the Office of the Government, the proposal to sign and ratify the Lanzarot Convention was approved by the Government on 28 May 2014. That means, in its resolution, the government recommended the President of the Republic to seize Mgr Tomáš Boček, who is an ambassador and permanent representative of the Czech Republic to the Council of Europe, to sign the Convention subject to ratification and subsequently to ratify the signed Convention following the consent of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. After its signature, the Government has commissioned me to submit the Convention to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and the President of the Senate for the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic with its ratification and the Minister of Justice to justify the conclusion of the Convention in Parliament. So I assume that the delay between 28 May this year and today's date is due to the fact that Mr Mgr. Tomáš Boček should first sign this Convention and only then should it be presented here to the Chamber of Deputies. However, in terms of government decisions as such, nothing prevents this convention - I agree with you that it is a shame that the Czech Republic has not yet joined it - from entering the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, and I believe that the Chamber of Deputies will approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Pecková's supplementary question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u35	It won't be a question, it'll be a big thank you for actually happening. And just for refills. The previous governments could not accept this ratification for the reason that I mentioned that the criminal liability of legal entities that were and still required for this ratification was not enshrined in our legal system until 2012. However, thank you very much and I am glad that after a week in Strasbourg I will be able to submit this good news for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u36	Thank you, ma'am. There's really not enough good news, so at least one today. Mr Jan Zahradník, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the completion of the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant, is registered with the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am addressing you with the following question. The government and subsequently ČEZ decided to cancel the tender for the completion of the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant for several years. All of us, who have the energy autonomy and security of our country at heart, are very concerned. I have now learned in the media from the statement by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ČEZ, Mr. profesor. Pačes, that a new tender is planned for the completion of the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant. Once again, this attitude shows that the current left-wing government of Babiš and Sobotka has no concept or plan for the future, it only takes chaotic steps, which then tries to return. And my question, Prime Minister, to you, does the government want to complete the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant or not? In case so, why did she cancel the ongoing tender? If not, why does CEZ say the opposite by the mouth of such an important official of the parastatal enterprise? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u38	I thank Mr Zahradník. I'd like the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u39	Thank you. Allow me to give a very brief description of this interpelation and to respond to Mr Zahradník's question. ČEZ, i.e. the Czech Energy Races, canceled tender 9. 4. 2014. The tender was not abolished by the government, but it was abolished by a joint stock company in which the government has about 70% of the share. In April 2014, the government did not plan to provide state guarantees for the construction of new nuclear resources, i.e. for the construction of two blocks at the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant. I would like to remind you that since the opening of the tender procedure, power energy prices have fallen significantly, and the project economy after several years of preparation of the tender procedure has looked quite different from the project economy at the time when it decided to launch a tender for the completion of two new blocks in Temelín. The government has refused to risk taxpayers' funds and to promise compensation for electricity prices, the extent of which no one is able to estimate responsibly today. There was therefore no real financing model for this investment that would allow ČEZ shareholders to provide at least a theoretical return on such invested funds. In response to a request from ČEZ, the government refused to grant a guarantee of the purchase price of electricity, and I want to say that we refused to repeat the moral hazard that occurred here, for example, in the area of public support for renewable sources, especially solar power plants. At the same time, the government declared its interest in further development of nuclear energy in the Czech Republic, imposed on the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Finance a comprehensive plan for the development of nuclear energy in the Czech Republic by the end of the year. This resolution was adopted shortly after the tender for the completion of two blocks was abolished. [[15.20 hours]] The form of this conceptual material will depend on the current state energy concept and also on the outcome of the debate in the European Union on climate and energy policy objectives. We have decided to align the deadlines for preparing the concept of further development of nuclear energy with the deadline for submitting an updated state energy concept, because these are documents that must be clearly linked. For both of these documents, the deadline was set for the last December of this year, so I assume that at the beginning of 2015 the government will be very careful about both of these concepts. As for Mr Václav Pačes' statement, which you mentioned here, if I may quote: "I personally believe that a decision is likely to take place next year, which may actually lead to the launch of a new tender. " So if you listen carefully to this quote by Mr Pačes, who is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ČEZ, he said: "I personally believe that a decision will probably be taken next year, which will eventually lead to the launch of a new tender." Mr Pačes certainly did not speak and could not speak for the government of the Czech Republic. The Government of the Czech Republic first commissioned the processing of conceptual documents, i.e. it is not some random or chaotic decision making, and Mr Pačes merely expressed the belief that a possible decision will take place next year, which is, after all, connected with the fact that both conceptual documents should be submitted by the end of this year. This means first conceptual discussions, materials submitted by the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Finance, and then a decision at the level of the government, which can focus on how nuclear energy will continue to develop in the Czech Republic. I don't want to speculate on the outcome of this process right now. I don't want to anticipate it. What I think is important for us to take a new approach and estimate is the question of the need for electricity generation in the coming years, the availability of individual raw materials that we have to produce electricity here in the Czech Republic, to re-evaluate energy security issues in the light of what we are experiencing in the context of the Ukrainian crisis. And what we also need is a signal of what will actually be an agreement at European Union level on the reduction of CO2 emissions. We need to safeguard the autonomy of the Czech energy mix in the debate that will take place in the European Union, so that we can subsequently follow The new year was free to decide how high the core production will have on the Czech energy mix. I am convinced that he will have a significant share there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u40	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. I ask Mr Zahradník for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u41	Dear Prime Minister, I misconceived that your answer would be yes - yes, no - no. That didn't happen. It has happened to us once before that when the government decides to kill something, it prepares a comprehensive solution. You risk a lot in my opinion. Energy security is at stake, there is also the professional capacity at stake, which is at the highest possible level needed for such a complex but scientifically sophisticated project, such as the construction of a nuclear power plant. And also, in my opinion, you are betting something as fragile and sensitive as the existing trust and high degree of tolerance of the citizens of the Czech Republic and, in particular, the citizens of the regions on whose territory nuclear energy is located, the idea of nuclear energy at all. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I am convinced that the government should really say yes - yes, no - no, and not indeterminately swerving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u42	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u43	Thank you. Dear Member, the government has not clenched. At the time CEZ asked whether the government would provide guarantees from taxpayers' funds for the construction of new blocks in Temelín, the government made it clear that it would not provide such guarantees. That wasn't a swivel, that was a clear decision. Then, of course, we all know how today in Europe, not only here in the Czech Republic, but in most European countries, it pays or does not pay to build new energy sources. It almost doesn't pay off anywhere. Without public support, it is almost not worth building new energy sources in Europe today. What caused this? This was due to the collapse of allowance trading and was due to the massive support of renewable resources, especially in neighbouring Germany. These two factors distorted the electricity market and led to a significant decline in the prices of power energy, which consumers did not recognise simply because they pay more money for public support for renewable sources. This is what happened here in Europe, and we cannot see that at the beginning of the tender there were completely different prices and there was a completely different return than when CEZ decided to cancel the tender. This is an economic reality that the government will have to come out of after the New Year. I want to assure you, Mr. Ambassador, that the government will be very responsible to analyse the current energy situation and the outlook that experts will give us. Without this new analysis, without this update, without the expertise here, I cannot say clearly how many nuclear blocks the government will possibly support in terms of their further construction. In addition to identifying the needs of electricity generation, we also need to find a new economic model of financing the possible construction of new blocks in the Czech Republic so that it does not turn out like this tender, which ČEZ eventually had to cancel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Ladislav Velebný, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the governance of this government, is prepared with the eighth interview. Perhaps, Mr. Ambassador, those two minutes will be enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u45	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, it is clear that the government you are running must work very intensively and very quickly from the outset, because I believe that you have taken over our country in poor condition. Nevertheless, I want to ask what you have done in the past six months and what positive changes you have prepared in the proper functioning of our state and so much needed stability in all areas, e.g. fighting unemployment. My second question to you: What do you consider as Prime Minister to be the most important and most necessary in the near future at government level to discuss? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u46	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer what he considers most important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u47	Thank you. Dear Member, four months, and it is indeed a large number of things that have been decided so far by the government, partly resolved, for example in the form of bills that are already here in the Chamber of Deputies and will be discussed by the House. I would like to mention a few things that I really consider significant. Firstly, the government has very strongly restored social dialogue in our country. We are trying to ensure that all serious conceptual decisions are not only taken closely by the coalition parties that form the government, but that they are negotiated with the social partners, that is, trade unions and employers. Tripartite meets every month from the time a new government was established, and we actually discuss the intentions of individual ministers and individual ministries for a number of hours. We have adopted some legislative changes. Now here in the Chamber of Deputies, for example, there is an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which changes the pension system so that pensioners have a chance to fully compensate for inflation. We have approved a bill that increases payments for state insured persons. Thank you. The Chamber of Deputies allowed this law to be approved in an accelerated regime so that it could be compensated for the hospital's income loss caused by the Constitutional Court's abolition of hospital stay fees. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is trying to stabilise labour authorities and turn them back to their core activities, which means active employment policy. At the same time, another important task for the Ministry on which the Office is working is to prevent the abuse of social benefits, in particular as regards housing benefits. In recent years, as the transfer of competences to the authorities of work from the municipalities has failed, business with social hostels has expanded and this needs to be stopped. [[15.30 hours]] I have already talked here today about changes that are being prepared for Czech spa and which are undoubtedly also positive. With regard to other resorts, the second round of the New Green Savings programme was announced at the beginning of the year. This concerns the Ministry of the Environment. At almost every meeting, the government regularly addresses the issue of drawing funds from the European Union. We lost more than 10 billion last year. This year, the risks that are at risk are about 20 billion. The koruna and we are trying to save what we can from the point of view of these funds, but to use the money and use it effectively. It is about drawing funds from the European Union. At the same time, we have also approved the first documents relating to the next financial perspective. We pay attention to new investments. Government e.g. supported the extension of Lego's production in Kladno. At the moment, we are discussing new investors with regard to investments in the Triangle industrial zone near Žatec. As regards investments in industrial zones in the Moravian-Silesian Region, the government also approved aid for OKD, which allows for an extension of the mining at Paskov mine for another three years. The government has also submitted a bill to preserve green oil for farmers. We are also trying to change the image of the government in Europe. We announced and decided on the accession of the Czech Republic to the fiscal pact. Once again, this proposal is tabled here in the Chamber of Deputies. In the field of defense, the government decided to extend the lease of supersonic aircraft JAS-39 Gripen. So maybe just very briefly about some of the steps we've taken. I also want to mention the fact that we are trying to strengthen economic diplomacy, we are trying to improve relations with rapidly growing economies, for example we are focusing. to strengthen political relations with China. At this very moment, the Minister of Industry and Trade is visiting China with a large business delegation, and we firmly believe that we will be able to strengthen trade relations with China and gain new investors in the Czech Republic as well. With regard to the objectives that you mentioned as necessary and important, I think the main task for the government will now be to prepare a good bill on the state budget. Such a budget, which will promote economic growth, will ensure the proper functioning of the state, will allow implementation of the Civil Service Act from 1 January next year. We want the budget to stabilize health care as well. We would also like to improve the remuneration of public sector employees a little bit, and, of course, we will be looking for money for investments to support transport projects that are ready and that can be financed in real terms next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u48	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member - he is not interested in an additional question. Mr. Ladislav Šincl, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the issue of unemployment problems in the Moravian-Silesian Region, is prepared with another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, one of the things that has a lot to do with people in the Czech Republic, and especially in the Moravian-Silesian region, is high unemployment. Impossible to find suitable employment. At present, around 500,000 unemployed persons are registered in the Czech Republic at employment offices. In our region, in the Moravian-Silesian Region, today there are 85 588 unemployed registered at the employment office, which can be imagined as all residents of Karviné, Bohumína and all adjacent municipalities of this district. In the Moravian-Silesian region, the highest unemployment rates are particularly Bruntál districts, i.e. 12.8 %, it is the second place on the famous unemployment ranking in the Czech Republic, and Karvina is in 4th place with 12.4% from all over the Czech Republic. Karviná district is in the sad first place in the Czech Republic in the number of applicants for one job. For any, even the most ordinary, poorly paid job, waiting every day in line at the employment office for almost 41 candidates, it follows that there are least job vacancies. In the Karviná district, unemployment rate is the worst region in the Karviná microregion, where the share of the unemployed is even 14.36 %. In addition to huge unemployment, there are a number of other so-called. accompanying problems. High crime, undersized staff at the employment office, high number of young people leaving for other parts of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, on the list of problems here, which are the result of the lack of interest of past right-wing governments, I would be able to spend all of my time on all the interpelations. Unfortunately, I don't have that much time, which is why I just want to ask for today: Does the new coalition government count on special programmes for structurally affected regions such as Karvina and Bruntál County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u50	Thank you, Mr Šincl. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer from the Moravian-Silesian Region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u51	Thank you. Dear Member, I personally visited the Moravian-Silesian Region twice as Prime Minister. I also visited Karvina County, namely Karvina City. I tried to get familiar with the situation, I met with tripartite representatives, with representatives of the employment office, with representatives of CzechInvest, with representatives of the self-government, so that we could look for the best possible opportunities for optimal cooperation between government, region, municipalities, in order to improve employment policy. I believe that the Moravian-Silesian region will be helped by the new instruments of active employment policy, which are launched by the labour authorities. Many of them also apply in the Moravian-Silesian region. What can help is the fact that, specifically for new investors in Karviná district, the maximum amount of investment incentive granted for the creation of one new job was increased to CZK 200,000, which I think increases the attractiveness of Karviná district for the arrival of new investors. This new maximum amount of incentives for one new job concerns only a few counties in the Czech Republic with the highest unemployment, and as far as I know, Karviná is one of them. What I think is very important is to support the development of industrial zones in Karviná district from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It is also important to prevent any OKD mining from endangering companies that have invested in the Karvina industrial zone. There is a certain degree of uncertainty, and I think that it is necessary for the government to pay attention in its negotiations with OKD also to avoid undermining this site and the demise of jobs. I am also glad that the government respects and basically has taken over the Institute of Government Commissioner for solving problems in structurally affected regions, in this capacity Mr Cieńciała, who was appointed by the government of Jiří Rusnok, continues. We are also in contact with Mr Cieńciała. Mr Cieńciała is a sort of coordinator for projects that should specifically help regions such as North Moravia or the Ústecký Region. The issue of the state budget and the means that we can invest in these areas will certainly be important. Firstly, it will be the funding from the programme of active employment policy, where we can also use money from the European Union. These will undoubtedly be the means that the government should continue to spend on removing old ecological and old mining damage, which are resources that should also be invested in the Moravian-Silesian Region and also in the Ústí Region. I consider it very important that tripartite cooperation continue in North Moravia, which exists around the Ostrava Labour Office, as well as an intensive dialogue between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Moravian-Silesian Region will continue. As regards the promotion of specific projects, and in particular, I would like to emphasise this as regards the acquisition of new investors for the Moravian-Silesian Region, because what can be the fastest support and most effective support is the question of new investments that could come into industrial zones that are not yet fulfilled. I want to mention for example. Mošnov, which has good transport accessibility, is there an airport and there is a relatively large capacity of free land and undoubtedly the government will work very intensively with the Moravian-Silesian Region to get new investors for Mošnov. The last thing I want to mention, which also concerns European Union funds. The government is counting on continuing support for higher education in the Moravian-Silesian Region, including support for science and research projects. Some projects have already been implemented, some are being completed, and it is undoubtedly very important in terms of the future reorientation of the employment structure in the region in order to continue support for projects focusing on science, research and innovation in northern Moravia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u52	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the Member's supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u53	Thank you, Mr President. As I have already said, in my opinion, the current situation in this very affected region is merely a result of the disinterest of former right-wing governments. And as you have already said, you have also recently visited the Nové Pole Industrial Zone, where roughly 2,000 workers are employed. The people here really appreciate that very, very much. I would just like to say that, in this region, great hopes really resonate in the current government, and everyone believes that you will help this region out of a very bad situation. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u54	The Prime Minister wants to answer whether he can help or not. I hope that's enough. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u55	Thank you. I don't think it's a question of personal support, but it's a matter of good functioning of the state, i.e. the good functioning of public services that should assist in dealing with the unemployment situation. I see here the key to North Moravia so that labour offices work well to have enough resources for active employment policy, so that we have enough resources for community-friendly work to be organised in cooperation with individual town halls, whether it is the town hall in Karvina, Bohumína, Havířov or other cities that are affected by great unemployment. The second key institution, which is important in terms of its functionality, is already mentioned several times by the CzechInvest agency, which is not only responsible for the implementation of funds from the European Union, but should be a key partner for new investors who come to the Czech Republic. I would like to assure you, Mr. Ambassador, that industrial zones and industrial sites in North Moravia are at the top of the CzechInvest tender list. We are trying to give priority to investors in regions with above average high unemployment. I think it is important that I point out here that CzechInvest is an agency that should significantly intensify its activities. And what I think is good news is that the number of candidates for new investment incentives this year has already exceeded 100, i.e. We have over 100 companies here that want to increase their production in various areas of business in various areas of the Czech Republic. The government is now gradually preparing and discussing these investment incentives in order to obtain specific new jobs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u56	Thank you, Prime Minister. And we will now move from one affected region to other affected regions in the interpellation of Mr Jaroslav Foldyna to Mr Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u57	Thank you, Mr. Control. Dear Prime Minister, I am a Member of the Ústí Region from Děčín County and I have come to ask you a question, to open a topic that is most troubling us at the moment: does the coalition government count with special programmes for structurally affected regions? Why do I say that? At the end of last year 625 390 were unemployed in the Czech Republic. However, the fact is that there were 67 977 people in the Ústí Region at that time without work, which was 11 percent in the Ústí Region when there were 8,6 percent unemployed in the Czech Republic. The region is significantly structurally affected. There's an untethered and unsolved transport infrastructure. We're waiting for the D8 motorway to be completed. Fifteen years we've been arguing about navigating the Elbe. The great accumulation of these problems, social and economic problems, creates strong tensions. Of course, previous governments have also arrived in our region. They were beautiful visits, but unfortunately the results of these visits cannot be considered as results, because if someone promises three months before the end of the year a hundred jobs of community service and doesn't count on it for the next month, then of course we haven't even been able to fill the public service posts, because those people, if they come to work for three months, for the rest of the year they don't have the job covered, will lose their benefits. So it was more like a demonstration of something - virtually. Nothing. And I would like to ask you, as Prime Minister of our Government and, at the same time, representatives of social democracy, how specifically we will address these affected regions, such as the Ústí Region and the North Moravian Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u58	I thank the honourable Member and the Prime Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u59	Thank you. Dear Member, maybe I'll start with one particular event and one particular case, and then I'll get to those other questions of yours. In 2003, the financing of the strategic industrial zone Triangle was launched. At the time, it was the decision of the coalition government in which there was social democracy. The industrial zone was then built. I was there the other day, and I found out that two-thirds of the industrial zone is still empty. So the investments that were made were actually realized by governments that were here between 2003 and 2007. The industrial zone, I believe, was collapsed in 2007, but so far only one third has been filled. I think it is essential that we use the money that we have already put into employment support in the Ústí Region once. So it wouldn't be a wasted investment, and we wouldn't have to just mow pot in the Triangle Industrial Zone. So the government is trying to get new investors into these existing industrial zones. Specifically, we are discussing a new big investor who should come to the Triangle zone near Žatec. And if the negotiations are successfully concluded - and in my view it is only a few weeks before these things are finally confirmed - and I would like to thank in this context the friendly approach of the Ústí Region, which cooperates very significantly with the government on this matter - we have a chance to fill another large part of the industrial zone. That's, let's say, one particular point. The second concerns active employment policy and what you mentioned in relation to community service. Shortly after I joined the government, I asked the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to try to simplify the system of subsidies for community service. To increase his flexibility. I am well aware that many people in terms of their qualifications, working habits have no chance in the normal labour market, and for many of these people, community service is actually the only chance to earn some money legally. And it's unfortunate if these people can be employed, for example. Only a year, then they have to be released and someone else is looking for, and no one cares what happens to them. So I am trying to change the rules of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I would also like to ask Members to help me do so, because it is absolutely necessary for the system of active employment policy to be simplified, to reduce bureaucracy and to increase efficiency in terms of really created new jobs. I think that's the thing that's important. The government will certainly be looking for funds to support projects aimed at strengthening employment in the Ústí Region. I think it will be very important that infrastructure projects relating to the connection of the industrial zone, which is in Žatec, towards Prague, are completed as well as the resolution of the catastrophic situation in the completion of the D8 motorway to Germany, because this is one of the major debts we have to the region, but which we also have to all citizens of the Czech Republic. The undignified connection we have with Sasko today is something that certainly does not leave the government calm, and I know that the Minister of Transport pays intense attention to it, and I assume that the House will be regularly informed by the Minister of Transport about this matter - the committee responsible - about those steps that are taking to resolve the collapse of parts of the construction D8 so that it can subsequently proceed to the completion of the D8. Good transport infrastructure is very important in order to improve the situation in the Ústí Region. What I also consider to be important - and this is the current debate we are having now - is that the increase in the fees for earned minerals, which will undoubtedly also touch the charge of brown coal, does not selectively affect only some districts and just some regions. That there is a threat, if the structure of the increase in the fees for the minerals that have been earned was set wrong, that would affect the Karlovy Vary and Ústí Region in particular, and I think that would be the exact opposite of what you requested for the government to provide assistance to these regions. I think that the aim of the government should not be to draw massive funds from these regions, which may be used today to finance certain projects, such as the type of reclamation. So it's going to be very important here, too, that we keep an eye on it. [[15.50 hours]] And the last point I'd like to make about your interpellation. Past governments have invested considerable resources in reclamation work. It seems to me that at the moment there is no clear prospect of their further funding. Here I would like the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, to provide the Ústí Region with a perspective on how these projects, which are related to reclamation, will continue to be financed from the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u60	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u61	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I should rather make a comment that I would like to ask the Prime Minister to look at the last thing I asked him to do, and that was navigating the Elbe, whether he would initiate in his government the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, to deal with the theme and issue of the Elbe navigation, because it is not just a question of this region, but it is a national economic issue that can have a very big impact on the agricultural, chemical, metallurgical and investment sectors. Apart from the development of tourism that would help the region. It's more of a comment and a request to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u62	Thank you, honourable Member. The Prime Minister still wants to clarify what the Elbe navigation will look like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u63	Unfortunately, honourable Member, this is a sort of relay that passes on one government to another, and I feel like it's always a worse legacy than the previous government has. When I look at the two levels of navigation that are involved, these two measures, and this is the level of navigation of Decin, and then the measures in Přelouč, the situation in Děčín seems quite bleak to me. And it is certainly important for the Ministry of Transport to pay attention to the preparation of this construction, even if it is complicated by a number of objections which enter into the relevant decisions, which I hope at least should bring us closer to the possibility of building this navigational stage at Děčín at some time. There is no way that the government will resign from measures that can improve the navigability of the Elbe River in our territory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u64	I thank the Prime Minister for his follow-up answer. Mr Petr Fiala will interpel the Prime Minister on the Civil Service Act. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister. I must admit, this is a well-played performance that you and your MPs are playing here. However, I will allow myself to interrupt it for a moment and ask you a real question. At this time, the government is already preparing the establishment of a Directorate-General, a new super-office, without the House of Deputies approving the Civil Service Act. I do not question the need for the Civil Service Act, and we should certainly have a law that does not complicate the situation of officials, but improves and which will mainly lead to the government providing a quality service to citizens. However, what we have so far put forward in the proposal does not guarantee such a thing, on the contrary, it seems that we will have a closed system here, an impenetrable system of lifelong officials, which will lead to the encapsulation of the state administration and will prevent the entry of high-quality people from the private sector or from other civil servants, where, for example, the Head of the Department of the Regional Authority will not be able to become head of the department at the Ministry. The proposal also does not address the conditions of young people for entry into the public administration, and as we know, it is for young people that the government is not attractive enough, nor does the proposal deal with the system of remuneration for officials. Thus, officials may be separated from politics, but a closed system will be created that will lead to nothing. My questions are as follows. How do you involve the opposition in this law? Secondly, how much will it cost, and from what sources will the government finance preparations for the establishment of this super-office? How many officials are going to be involved? And the last question is the most important. Do we even know what we want? What is the vision and concept of the state administration? Because so far, it looks like this is the law for the law. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Law for the European Union, but not law for citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u66	I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u67	Dear Member, I think this is a really important topic that will significantly change the functioning of the state administration, and I firmly believe that the quality of the functioning of the state administration will be improved if, finally, the Czech Republic succeeds in enforcing the Civil Service Act. I know that the opposition sometimes suspects the current government to enforce the Civil Service Act only to preserve government-appointed employees in positions in government administration. But if we look at the structure of the state administration and how it is composed, the personnel changes that this government has made concerning a maximum of hundreds of people who have eventually come up with all the state authorities together make up only a small fraction of some 70 to 80 000 civil servants who should be subject to the Civil Service Act. Certainly, the government's aim is not to preserve a system that has been created here for many years, and government parties have had no impact on the way positions in government have been occupied, and in a few months this year, they cannot change that in any way, nor do they have an ambition to change it in any way. The aim is, however, not to depoliticize the government on its own, as you said here, but to depoliticize it in fact. This means that the impact of politically nominated representatives, especially ministers, on specific personnel decisions on individual leadership positions in the state administration will be significantly reduced. In order to reduce this effect, the Institute of the Secretary of State is hereby established. And in order to be able to appoint the Secretary-General and establish a staffing authority against him, the Institute of the Director-General of the Civil Service is hereby established. It's not about creating some new super-minister who's gonna have hundreds of employees. The point is that the Director-General of the State Service, who will appoint new state secretaries, has at least a minimum administrative background, particularly in terms of the implementation of personnel policy. We therefore assume that the Directorate-General of State Services should have around 60 employees to get it to work. We are preparing for this Directorate-General of State Services to be established gradually this year, so that, from the New Year onwards, state secretaries can be appointed at individual ministries. We would really like to see every political cycle, with each new election to the Chamber of Deputies, not all leadership positions in individual offices changed, so that changes take place on the basis of a regular evaluation of how the officials concerned perform the tasks entrusted, how the officials concerned work to improve their qualifications, how the officials concerned meet the needs of increasing the quality of functioning of the public administration. It is therefore about separating personnel changes at ministries from the political cycle. Therefore, the Director-General of the State Service will also be appointed for a period exceeding one political cycle. The same applies to the appointment of State secretaries at individual ministries. So it may be that with the state secretary who was appointed as the previous minister, a new minister will have to do the same, perhaps coming from among a whole new political guarantee. But in my opinion, it can help improve the functioning of the office. So not to depolize naoko, to do here just some exercises for Brussels, but to change the quality of governance and the functioning of the state administration in our country. In the past seven years, there has been an opportunity for past governments to adopt their version of the Civil Service Act. Because in seven years past, your governments have not done so - because the ODS has also been in governments for many years out of those seven years - have squandered the opportunity to assert their idea of civil service, so please do not blame the current government for trying to assert its idea at a time when voters and your inaction in the enforcement of the Civil Service Act have made it possible for this government to do so. So your inaction allowed us to come up with a new proposal now. Of course, we are prepared to assess and discuss the amendments that will be tabled by opposition representatives, but we do not have enough time to postpone the adoption of the Civil Service Act indefinitely. This law must begin to apply on 1 January and we want to apply the restrictions of this law to the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u68	Additional question? [[He's not coming!]] 16 o'clock has passed. I'm sorry, I didn't look at my watch, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u69	However, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to ask an additional question after 16 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u70	I'll give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, you have the right to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u71	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers, which may not satisfy me, but that is not important right now. But you did not answer one question to me, and it was: How much will it cost and from what resources will the government finance the establishment of the forthcoming Directorate-General and how many officials will it involve?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u72	I'm asking the Prime Minister for a follow-up answer, and then we'll end up interviewing the Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u73	Yes, I was talking about about about 60 officials, which should relate to the scope of the new Directorate General of State Service, so about this number of people. For the most part, we would like to use the European Union funds to finance them in the first two years of the existence of the Directorate-General for State Services. At the same time, we have demolished existing official posts from the Ministry of the Interior and from the Office of the Government. This means that we are not increasing, but we are delimiting official posts from the Office of the Government and from the Ministry of the Interior and those increased resources, which will be about 20, 30 of those 60, we want to finance in the first two years from European Union funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u74	I thank the Prime Minister not only for this reply, but also for all the other answers to all the Members' interpelations, and I end my interpelation with the Prime Minister, and at the same time I start oral interpelations with individual members of the Government. Mr Igor Nykl, who will interpel the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek on the National Sports Council, will have the first interview according to the winning order for the members of the government. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u75	Thank you. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues, fellow ministers. The National Sports Council was created as a new advisory body of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports for Sport. In addition to the Deputy Ministers, representatives of the largest sports unions and representatives of the Chamber of Deputies sit in this institution. In mid-May, the Board divided a subsidy of 820 million. CZK, which was first submitted by the First Deputy Minister, was actually to be approved by the Council. It then happened that the two Members who are on the Council abstained because they argued that they had received the whole list of those items only one day before the vote, which is very difficult to assess, and to say objectively about whether the 820 miles. The koruna is divided correctly, it is really very difficult in this short time. Nevertheless, the board's board of directors decided not to change the board's mind and approved the recommended subsidies. But then, in the press, we learn that everything is different and that it was those Members who managed to stop granting these subsidies and revise this money. It turns out there are several items that are very special and where subsidies may not be directed optimally. For example, this concerned some events around tennis grounds and finally it happened that a subsidy of 18 million. The CZK, which was to be directed to the private premises of the Bula Arena in Kravaří, was actually stopped and will work with it in a different way. The questions that come out of this for me are as follows. First, what system did the National Sports Council create, who nominated members? Secondly, how is it that, for example, tennis, which is basically the most successful sport in the Czech Republic today, does not have a representative on this council? Thirdly, the fact that the council is so special and there are representatives of some of those sports is the question of whether there is actually a conflict of interest in the fact that the applicant sometimes votes on the allocation of subsidies to himself. Fourthly, if it is considered to change the composition and work of the board. And for the next, last thing - how are the revisions of those items that have been stopped? Who decides that? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u76	Thank you, Mr President, and next time I will ask you to respect the time limit. I'll ask the Minister for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I've been able to write down the few questions that are here, but at first, maybe I'll describe the whole organ more thoroughly. The organ is advisory. This means that he cannot decide whether to approve or not to approve the subsidy, but only recommends that this advisory body has recommended a package of subsidies for approval, and since in the past the subsidy scheme was such a potato plant that, in essence, one former Deputy Minister decided on it - he will not, he will not, here he will think about it - so I wanted to open it up as much as possible to both the sports environment and, of course, political entities. That is why I have offered to participate in these institutions so that every political party in the Chamber of Deputies, either from the government coalition or from the opposition, has one representative. When I was at the National Council, she largely agreed to this proposal. I'm guessing it was 16 o'clock, no one's against it, three of them got held up. And since Mr Holeček had some comments on some subsidies, I said that he would go again to the National Council with the fact that I had made the Minister's decision to suspend the subsidy of the Bull Arena, and that I had redistributed the funds into resort sports facilities such as the Ministry of Education's facilities, the Ministry of the Interior's facilities for one simple reason - because the State funds would actually go to state facilities and to ensure the operation of these facilities. The National Council is composed of representatives of all the Unions, so it cannot happen that anyone has no representation there, because there is the chair of the Czech Olympic Committee, there is the chair of the Czech Union of Sport, then there are the chairmen of other important organizations. In addition to the political subjects mentioned above, the mayor of the Czech Sokol village, representative of the Association of Regions, has never been so broad as to speak in this way. But the system, the way it's taken from the past, I can't stop it for one simple reason, because under other conditions, they were making applications, under another government. Now we're commuting the system, trying to make it as transparent as possible. And that's why I listened to your colleague, Mr. Holeček, who gave me a list of 27 items, and I'll have the 27 items checked out. It doesn't mean that we wouldn't grant them a grant, but before we give the funds, we're going to check whether the objections that Mr. Holeček makes are justified or not. Then there will be another checkup, and that would go without it once the funds are sent, so there will be a follow-up check to see if they are spent effectively. So the system went on so that the office checked the application, asked them for a refill, if there was any problem, so it came back, made a list. It has been sent to the presidents of the respective unions, which means the tennis union, and it has made priorities. Because I think that mostly the sports area should speak into it and should say: Yes, we therefore guarantee state representation, guarantee massity, support for young people and in these ten proposals that are needed to reconstruct the football field, we think that the most important is there, there, there. And as a recommendation, it goes to a national council that can change and recommend another proposal to the Minister and to the Board of Directors. But in the future, I'd like to change the system. I would like the proportion, about one third to half of this amount of investment in sport, to go to the newly established National Olympic Centers, which are supposed to be six to seven, and one university centre, which would provide state representation, youth training, and we would have a maximum overview of this. And the rest of it would be to support the municipalities, because we also talked with the Member I see here about pulling in more. So my proposal will go, so 30 percent to 40 percent will be provided by the state. At the same time, the applicant must say that he has secured support from the region, some involvement from the region. Or that he's got other subjects to take care of it. [[16.10 hours]] So far, it's been tried, they're gonna apply for 18, 40, 60 million, and they're either gonna make it or they're not gonna make it. We want to be more interested in them now, i.e. All we're gonna do is get involved, and on that basis, they're gonna have to get the rest. This is what the whole system looks like. If you want, I can give you a list of members of the National Council. In conclusion, let me just stress once again that it is an advisory body, so it cannot happen there that there will be a conflict of interest precisely because it is only an advisory body. It does not decide whether to grant a subsidy to its club or to another club. There was still a debate about whether it was a private activity -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u78	Minister, I'm sorry, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u79	This is a very important sentence: there is no elimination of private entities in these conditions, so we must also comply with subsidies for private entities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u80	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Nykl if he has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u81	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. Just one question. Is it true, then, that such a serious assessment to be made by this advisory body was that these Members, for example, were given the file the day before the decision was taken? So decide on such subsidies so briefly? That's basically not possible. So if there's no mistake. I don't think the procedure is entirely optimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u83	Yes, it is true that the latter sent it late and gave it to them the day in advance. For this reason, I made the National Council again, repeated in 14 days. The National Council, in the last 14 days, decided again on those items. That is, then there was this change that I proposed, and it was based on the study of those items, but that the whole system was set up so that the formality and compliance and legislation did not control it by the national council, only decides on effectiveness in favour of sport. So I've moved on 14 days, then the National Council has decided somehow, and even now it will be done so that we have a written opinion from each president on all the issues of the particular grant. And for those who have the impression of inefficiency, the 27 items that have been created there, they will still be examined on the spot during the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u84	Thank you. Next in line was Mr. Václav Klučka. He's going to intersect Minister Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u85	Thank you, Mr President. If you don't mind, in the introduction, just a brief remark, because in the last part of the interview, we were here as a coalition reminded twice by the opposition that we're playing some kind of theater, that we're doing something here, why we're even applying to the interpelling. I would like to ask colleagues from the opposition to respect Section 110 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that every Member has the right to interpel the Government or its members in matters of their competence. And so we will always continue to use the interpelatory options. Not to mention that the Prime Minister is only Prime Minister and is a representative of the government. And the interpelations were to the government. So reminding the Prime Minister for that is inappropriate. Now to interview the Minister of Health. Minister, you have brought a report to the public that says that more than a billion-dollar health insurance savings will bring faster work by the State Institute for Drug Control, SÚKL, and better cooperation with health insurance companies. You have talked about the positive drug certificates of the General Health Insurance Company introduced since March 2013, which have proved to be effective and are making hundreds of millions of savings per year. SÚKL's director said that the Institute is currently making intensive use of the possibility of short-term revisions, which bring far greater savings to the public health insurance system compared to the deep revisions. Mr. Secretary, are these the things we've only just discovered? Or why do you think in the past the SÚKL didn't work the way it was supposed to work? Why aren't those health savings really real anymore?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I respond to your interview with order number 2 in the SÚKL case. In order to achieve savings, the State Institute for Drug Control launched a so-called shortened revision of seven groups of medicinal products on a proposal from the General Health Insurance Corporation between March and May 2014. These were the following drug groups: opioids, antihypertensives, antidepressants and insulins. I would just point out that the State Institute for Drug Control has decided to use the form of these accelerated revisions, which last for 50 days and where representatives of pharmaceutical companies do not have the opportunity to prolong and, let's say, disrupt the process as with those deep revisions. According to Mr. Blahuta's information, the estimated savings of the drugs that have been completed are more than one billion crowns. Three of these short revisions have already taken legal power, and the savings from these three revisions are estimated at CZK 464 million. The rest will become legal at 1. 8. I might add here that in Czech health care the cost of medicines has stagnated for several years. So it cannot be said that it would be an item with which the system has a fundamental problem. We don't have overpriced drugs. Nevertheless, I believe that this is a sum where there are savings options. I suppose, and this is how I agreed with the director of the SÚKL that they will continue in this direction, and I firmly believe that this savings will deepen by the end of the year. I understand that not everyone will be happy about it. I suppose there was no opening of champagne at the headquarters of pharmaceutical companies, whose profits were reduced by one billion, but I think the state is here to defend state interests. I don't want to speculate why the trials haven't been so fast in the past. Perhaps the predecessors chose the wrong form. However, we were discussing changes in the State Institute for Drug Control, the transparency of processes, which was the reason that led me to personal changes, and even then I said that I was not entirely satisfied with how quickly and efficiently SÚKL works. It is evident that it can be confirmed by works, because the time during which these things were realized was very short. And I confess that even I didn't expect such quick and so marked results. I think that one billion crowns in Czech health care will be seen that health insurance companies will use this amount to treat people who need it, for oncologically ill and other serious diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u88	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Klučka... He doesn't have another follow-up question. Okay, thank you. The third in line was drawn with Mrs Marta Semelová's interpellation. You have the floor, madam, and you are intersecting Minister Marksová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, yesterday an extraordinary meeting took place between the Department of Health and Social Welfare workers, which dealt with the working conditions and the alarming situation in the financing of this area. As far as social services are concerned, we have long been drawing attention to the lack of money and demand a solution for the government. Unfortunately, the situation is repeated year after year, money from the state budget travels little to social services. As a result, employees whose salaries are among the lowest in the Czech Republic are overloaded and layoffs for exclusively financial reasons. It is not only possible to further develop these services, but many of them are directly existentially threatened and, of course, their users along with them. The poor situation is in nursing care, while most social services cannot be operated without health workers. The situation is very serious, quality and care for the disabled, seniors and others is at risk. The Czech Republic gives far less resources to health and social services than in the surrounding countries. The unions are demanding a pay rise of 5% for next year. They rightly consider 3,5 % to be insufficient by the government. I would therefore like to ask you how you will respond to this challenge, whether you will promote the required amount when discussing the state budget, or what further steps you will take to address the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u90	Thank you. I'll ask for an answer from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u91	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Now it's kind of an interesting thing that, as the interpellation was called social services financing, so I have in particular an answer that concerns the transition of social services funding to the edge, because it is a matter that is constantly being dealt with. But as far as this is concerned, like everything else, it depends on the size of the entire state budget. I am aware of that, because we have dealt with the unions several times, Mrs Žitníková, that they are demanding an increase. They also actually demand an increase in pay grades and tariffs and we are currently in negotiations because we said that we wanted to know how the total amount of funds per civil servant will turn out. We are able in some way to help those who work in the contribution organizations there. But it's actually all open. However, we still act, but sometimes we are actually built - it doesn't just apply to the Ministry of Labour, but in general - before such a decision that it will either be retired or it will be civil servants or someone else. However, as I say, we know about this, and we also continue to act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u92	Thank you. Will you have an additional question? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u93	I would just like to add that the optimal amount of funding for the current social services network is 8.5 billion. Since 2010, salaries in social services have not been increased. These employees are the worst in terms of salaries in the public sphere. In the draft state budget, at least as it penetrates the public, it is not 8.5 billion, but 7.1 billion crowns. This means that I would still like to ask if you will be promoting the 8.5 billion that guarantee this by optimizing social services in negotiations with the Minister of Finance Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u94	Thank you. Madam Secretary, try to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u95	We advocate a lot in negotiations with the Minister of Finance, but in a government statement, there is a promise of funding for social services at least for the entire parliamentary term of 7.2 billion. The draft of the Ministry of Labour for 2015 was 8 billion. At present, we have received a proposal from the Ministry of Finance for the 7.1. So, as I'm saying, the meetings are going on on all sides.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u96	Thank you. The fourth draw is Mr René Číp. He's coming up with an interview with the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I would like your opinion on the recent presidential elections in Ukraine, Syria and Egypt. There is a parallel between the elections in these countries, because the circumstances under which they were held are very similar. I therefore ask for a clear answer whether you consider elections in Ukraine, Syria, Egypt democratic and whether their winners are the right and legitimate partner for the Czech Republic to negotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u99	This was said correctly, of course, in recent times there have been three presidential elections - Egypt, Syria, and Ukraine. In fact, each of these elections took place in a different environment, and in various ways they were internationally monitored. So you can't quite answer that in two sentences, because each country has a completely different story. I can say briefly about this: The Egyptian elections were held on May 26-28. A clear winner was Sísí, who received 97 percent of the votes cast, but the participation was only 47 percent of those eligible voters, and even were extended by one day of the election, set. Elections were monitored by the European Union observation mission EOM - Election Observation Mission - and even thanks to certain Egyptian obstructions it had to significantly reduce the activity of long-term observers, so it was not quite easy. However, the preliminary report of this international observation mission finally came out in the sense that the elections took place in accordance with the law and in the legal environment in which the basic constitutional principles were respected. There were a number of reservations about the campaign, but, in principle, the elections were taken as elections that met certain basic requirements. The next debate on these elections will be on the agenda of the Ministers of the European Union 23. 6. at a meeting in Brussels. As far as the elections in Syria are concerned, the situation here is more complicated because there have been elections so that the elections have not been conducted under the supervision of some really credible observation missions. The Czech Republic is unable to estimate how credible these results are, because they took place in an environment of quite fundamentally harsh political repression and this made practically impossible the participation of opposition candidates. There were only two candidates, but these are actually unknown personalities who, by their participation, highlighted the dominance of Asadův, i.e. the current representative of the more or less still ruling regime. In fact, opposition leaders were forced to flee into exile. The election process did not take place, as I said, under the supervision of some credible observers. Some countries have sent observers - such as Iran, Iraq, Cuba, Venezuela. However, the Czech Republic considers this type of supervision to be very imperfect and we have a critical assessment, as well as all the Member States of the European Union, because we consider that large parts of the population have not been allowed to participate in the vote due to the ongoing violent conflict, which claimed 130 000 deaths and where chemical weapons, as you know, have also been used. Even not only the European Union, but also other states, including the Arab League and the Gulf Cooperation Council, have criticised the Syrian leadership's intention to organise these elections from the start. The June 2012 Geneva communiqué, signed by UN officials and relevant states, including Russia, recommended as a first step to stabilise the country to create a sort of interim government, a kind of government of national unity that, with the participation of the Syrian leadership and opposition, would actually prepare elections that could be regular. So it was a position that actually has been valid for a long time, and unfortunately, the current leaders did not take advantage of it or hold on to it. So I think there is a fairly broad view here that these elections are extremely problematic, and the question is whether, in the current situation in Syria, without that preliminary step, the creation of a government of national unity and some reconciliation over it is even possible to make regular elections. And in the end, I come to the Ukrainian elections. The Ukrainian election, as you know, won in the first round according to a survey by Petro Porošenko. Elections took place by being high, over 60 percent. Traditionally the highest was in the western part, there was up to 80 percent. It was far more complicated in the east. However, Petro Porošenko here also won quite a significant number of votes and was actually a winner in many eastern areas. I'm not gonna say the exact numbers here. After counting the votes with the participation of 60.29 percent of the voters in Ukraine, Porošenko won the first round with 54.5 percent of the votes. He got 9 million 500,000 votes. I'm not gonna say the other ones. I think I'm running out of time. I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u100	It's not easy for me to say this, Minister, but yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u101	I'll try to finish it later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u102	Thank you. I want to ask you if you'll have an additional question. [[No.]] There was no follow-up question, so in that case, you can't tell the story. The fifth is Mr Stanislav Polčák and will interpel the Minister Richard Brabec. So I'm gonna ask you to read your interpellation and be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u103	I would very much like to hear, Mr Vice-President, of course, that the Minister will respond orally to it, that is not going to happen. At the same time, I would like to allow Minister Zaorálek to continue his answers, which were very interesting, and this is not compatible with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, so at least I will allow myself to read the interpelation on the Minister of the Environment. Dear Minister, I would like to address you on setting up the financing of water infrastructure, e.g. construction of sewage treatment plants, in the next programming period. According to the draft operational programme Environment, the objective of the construction of water infrastructure of 50,000 equivalent inhabitants is set. The average municipality in the segment of so far uncanalized municipalities has a thousand equivalent inhabitants. If we only expect such average municipalities, it means that in seven years the construction of water infrastructure will take place only in 50 of them. It is based on seven average municipalities each year. The number, of course, is very catastrophic. Dear Minister, these facts lead me to ask the question: Wasn't the Ministry one or even more zeroes wrong in setting the target? Fifty thousand equivalent inhabitants cannot really be accepted as targets. Thank you for your, this time written, answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u104	Thank you for your interpellation. Next, Mr. Jiří Skalický is drawn with an interview with the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u105	Mr President, Mr Minister. As of 1 January 2015, your government plans to completely abolish all regulatory fees in health care. Overall, it is about CZK 5.2 billion, when roughly CZK 2.2 billion has already been cancelled as a hospital fee or hospital stay fee. It is now roughly still the abolition of the amount of 3 billion, which should touch the outpatient sphere, i.e. outpatient specialists, practices and, of course, pharmaceutical care. I would like to ask, what system solutions are you preparing to compensate for the loss of income of these health establishments? As far as outpatient specialists and practitioners are concerned, of course, many colleagues sit here from right to left and we know that there are already a number of problems, especially in remote regions, and there is a problem to ensure health care at this level. As far as pharmacies are concerned, there is a very similar situation. Again, it is mainly pharmacies care and its services in small towns or smaller, where pharmacies are still forced to charge for recipes because they cannot afford not to collect. Again, the question is how would this care be made available just outside the big centres, where, I admit, it is not a problem in large centres, because simply large drug chains did not collect fees anyway and simply managed to cope with it. By the way, they were breaking the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister for an answer to your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u107	Mr President, honourable Members, even after the cancellation of the bed-care fee of CZK 100, which was decided by the Constitutional Court, the Ministry of Health has prepared an amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance Insurance, on the basis of which it has been decided by 1. 7. 2014 compensation will be paid to bed care providers who are affected by the cancellation of this fee this year. By increasing the payment for the so-called State insured persons will be strengthened by the revenues of the public health insurance system by roughly CZK 2.1 billion for the remaining six months of this year. I would like to thank this House once again for approving this necessary standard at first reading. With effect from 1. 1. 2015 then, in accordance with its programme statement, the government assumes the abolition of the regulatory fee for outpatient treatment and for the recipe. I merely remind you that, on the basis of the programme statement and the coalition agreement, the government is counting on maintaining the regulatory fee in emergency services, which, in our view, is the only one that really has a regulatory effect. We have already passed this amendment to the inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and we assume that nothing will prevent it from being on 1. 1. Indeed, 2015 has taken effect. While this year it was no longer possible to change the payment decree and it was necessary to proceed with special legislation, the loss of income from health service providers from regulatory fees will be compensated by standard payment mechanisms in the following years, i mean the payment decree. The increase in the payment for state insured persons will bring CZK 4.2 billion into the public health insurance system next year, and these funds will be redistributed directly between the health service providers concerned and the health care provider concerned, which will be affected by the failure of regulatory fees. I will respond to the amount stated by the Member in respect of the total amount. However, I think that there is a need to distinguish between the declared amount of the fees and the actual amount. So I am thinking, above all, of pharmacies, where, as we know, particularly large pharmacies do not actually collect these fees, even if they do. At that point, the sum of CZK 1.7 billion, i.e. the estimated sum for these charges, is moving somewhere else. We are in contact with the Pharmacy Chamber and we are trying to quantify the real decline especially in smaller pharmacies, which are forced to collect these fees and which de facto today harm in terms of some competitive effect. I will also respond to the remark concerning the problems of both outpatient care, especially the practical doctors, which is being announced and those small pharmacies in remote regions. I believe that it has no direct connection to the collection of regulatory fees. However, I agree that this is a problem and that it is a problem that the Ministry of Health and, in turn, the government must address. We've already started some analyses of this problem. Such a basic idea is, above all, for practitioners, that we could introduce a kind of bonus to capitalization for those who provide care in remote regions where few patients are at full economic security practices, but in terms of the interest of the state to provide health care in these regions it is necessary. It's similar, I think, to pharmacies. There we discuss the possibility of introducing so-called "pharmaceutical care" with representatives. Dispensation fee for the supply of a single medicinal package. We have already taken the first steps in the draft amendment to Act 48, which will come to the Chamber of Deputies. We are assuming the introduction of the work of the pharmacist as a health insurance carrier, and on the basis of the agreement and consultation with the pharmacists' representatives, with the Pharmacy Chamber, we will be figuring out how, in the most effective way, to provide pharmacies that provide us with the necessary care in remote regions, and not to overpay the chains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u108	Thank you for your answer to the exemplary observance of time. I want to ask: Will there be an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u109	Thank you. I would rather take the remark and response to what the Minister said. Dispensation fee is one of the things I will be very happy to discuss because I think it makes sense. Second point. I would like to point out that the regulatory fee in pharmacies is very closely linked to the protection limit for patients, and if this charge is cancelled, the problem of the protective limit has to be resolved in a fundamental way, because here it can happen - and the protective limit really worked and works - that patients who are long-term ill, chronic will actually be affected, because the limit for them will be completely different or will even be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u110	Thank you. Will you respond, Minister? I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these comments, in particular for the comment on the safeguard limit. There is no way that we expect the protective limit to be lifted and we expect it to be maintained because we think that from the point of view of the surcharge and the deductible surcharges, the protective limit is a good thing that helps patients and which we definitely want to keep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u112	Thank you. The seventh was drawn by Mr. Daniel Korte with his intervention on the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u113	Thank you. Madam Secretary, at the 10th meeting of the Security Committee, you stated - I quote: millions were paid in 2013 to reward several top officials of the Prison Service. This is what we want to change, and I'm already changing it. The savings will also be in the fact that we currently have a total of 180, 190 employees in the Directorate-General and that our apparatus, which is very expensive, because that is where the highly respected officials are, can be significantly slimned down. Director General Ondrášek canceled the position of First Deputy and created two new Deputys instead. It is to say that there have never been so many deputy officers in the prison service in history. How do you explain that significant slimming, which I understand with my pardon, should be a reduction in the number of employees, is taking place by increasing the Director-General's situation by two tables? For the sake of clarity, he is one other deputy, and he must, of course, have his driver. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Member, thank you for this question. I am very glad, because that gives me the opportunity to shed light on the current situation as it is at the Directorate-General, and to confirm that what I have said and promised on the Security Committee is indeed true. On the one hand, there is a functional distribution of the function that has not previously been performed. That is why there are problems now, because one deputy had a function involving competence in a completely disparate area, so logically this function, competence into two areas - education, treatment of convictions and controls, control and security. So that's one thing. Then you'd be right to have two deputys instead of one. But that's the end of it, because by the end of June, by 1 July, the Directorate-General will cancel 20 to 25 systems. The savings will be CZK 3.5 million a year. Personnel audit in progress. We assume that in the autumn of 2014, we will already know if 30 to 50 more systems will be able to cancel during the autumn or 1 January 2015, thereby saving millions more annually. That's where the slimming really takes place, and it's going to happen. And I'd like to take this opportunity if I still have a time limit?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u116	You have more than three minutes, Madam Secretary. You can talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u117	In such a case - it is unusual, but it is related to the slimming and reduction of costs, which was drawn as number 30, which concerns remuneration. Now, I will completely ignore the question that in the past, the rewards of those high officials have not been made public. If it was published, it was published by tabloids. However, I know that someone posted information that I rewarded the new CEO with a reward of CZK 110,000. And I would just like to say that it is a reward for half a year of his work as director of the Prison of Rapotica and the current operation by the end of June. It's a six-month job as CEO. Compared to all the rewards that have been paid in this way in the past, this is incomparably the lowest reward. And I would also like to draw your attention to that. This system will also be followed by other service officials. So I will always be able to influence what I can, so I will influence so that the Directorate-General does not really take too much money out of prison, as has been the custom so far. Thank you for allowing me to answer more widely, because I think that Mr Korte might not have received his answer because it was drawn in the 30th place. I will be happy to return to the explanation in the supplementary reply if it needs to explain what further steps we will take in the area of slimming down the Directorate-General.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u118	Thank you. The Member is coming, so there will probably be an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u119	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Of course, what you said to my question about the reduction, the slimming, interested me. I'd beg you when the reorganization is decided, if there's any news I can get. Given what you have responded to what I have not asked, I am merely saying - and it may not come to that, you are right - that the reason why Mr Ondráček received CZK 110,000 reward for the quality of carrying out urgent service tasks - I would like to understand this for carrying out my duties, not for any extra work, unlike General Dohnal, who did flawlessly amnesty, dealt with floods etc. But maybe that's what's gonna happen in the second interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u120	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Secretary if he'll complete his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u121	I'm just trying to be clear. I also had to get acquainted with the state of normal and standard. Each director of the prison responsible, who carries out his duties conscientiously, receives once every six months a reward that is relatively high. And there is no exception in this regard in the person of Mr. new CEO Ondrášek. That's my first point. Second point. I do not want to evaluate the work of Mr. former CEO Dohnal in 2013, however, I would like to point out that his rewards were in a completely different order from what we are talking about here. It would therefore deserve some larger, more detailed and convincing explanation or justification for such a reward that I was looking for and I did not find in the personnel file in either case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u122	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Antonín Seďa was drawn in the eighth place with his interpellation and interpelled by Minister Zaorálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, despite the still tense security situation in eastern Ukraine, the security situation in the Middle East has long been a risk. I assume that the summit of the countries of the European Union and the Arab League that you participated in could also contribute to the solution. Could you at least briefly inform about the outcome of the summit, or who you spoke to, what are the relations of the Czech Republic with the Arab countries, and what basic problems have been consulted in the context of these talks? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is about to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u125	Thank you, good afternoon. I can inform you and confirm what has been said here that during the last two days in Athens, I have attended meetings of representatives of European countries with ministers - mostly foreign ministers - of Arab states. In connection with this, I have actually met with a number of Arab representatives there. First of all, I had the opportunity to deal with the Secretary General of the Arab League, Nabíl Arabí. I also had a number of bilateral talks with individual ministers, such as the Algerian Foreign Minister Ramtane Lamamra, Palestinian Foreign Minister Málikí or the newly appointed Lebanese Minister Gebran Bassil. I will not name everyone, but I have also dealt with the Libyan Foreign Minister and some others. I had a speech on Syria at this summit. This has to do with the fact that the Czech Republic still has a resident ambassador in Damascus at the moment. In fact, it is the only one of the countries of the European Union with a functional representative office at the moment, and we operate as a de facto representation for other states of the European Union. This gives us some competence to talk about Syria because we have more information than others thanks to the existence of the representative office. That's why I had the opportunity to speak with information about Syria now after the presidential election. Of course, this was not very encouraging information because, above all, the humanitarian situation in Syria is disastrous. And at meetings with individual ministers, we discussed exactly what is hard to do today on such states as Lebanon, where the Lebanese Foreign Minister asked me what we would do in the Czech Republic if we had three and a half million refugees in the Czech Republic, a refugee ratio that we would have as a ten-million-dollar state if we had a similar ratio to Lebanon today. This alone will probably give you an idea of how difficult problems are today plagued by many of the countries and ministers I have encountered, who are talking about problems that are in such order that we often cannot even imagine. Of course, I was talking about help, which we provide, for example, Lebanon, which is a very good partner for us in the long term also in the area of the economy, and therefore, despite this serious situation, the curious exchange of economic and relations is quite very good. And so is the case with other places and other ministers I have spoken to. It was mainly about the fact that these countries are facing big security problems today, fighting terrorism. This is also true in Algeria and in other countries whose ministers I had the opportunity to deal with. Above all, we talked about bilateral relations, where, despite the situation, we often have quite considerable opportunities to work together. I think on the Arab side that I felt very interested in the Czech Republic on the Arab side. They see us as a country that is a very good partner to them today. And I can de facto say that in any of these negotiations I have not encountered any major obstacles or something that would make relationships more difficult. So I got the impression that the whole family of Arab countries is a very good partner for us today. We ourselves are always seen by them as a trustworthy country and a country that is also ready to help solve - at least according to the possibilities it has - the serious things that are currently taking place there and which are often plagued by them. I think that this meeting was very important for us, and I consider this session with the Arab countries to be very important. Of course, we dealt with acute problems. And the one that actually blew up there as a matter of fact was the situation in Iraq, in the Iraqi Mosul, the cast of the Al-Qaeda activist. This was, of course, one more bad news in addition to what is happening in Syria, to what is happening in Libya, and to what is happening in Egypt, which is also not at an easy stage today, even if it is after the presidential elections. In fact, the current problems of these countries were a number of main issues that we have addressed - the issue of refugees, the question of resolving the situation in those parts where open fights, such as Iraq, Syria, Libya, are often raging, and the question of how we can help these countries and what are the possibilities of cooperation between the European Union and Arab countries. Despite the great problems, I think that the whole meeting and the whole meeting took place in a rather very positive atmosphere, which I think is not so little, even if it sounds formal. So much for that, and I think it's good to put this basic information here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u126	Thank you. The Member has yet to raise an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u127	Thank you, Minister, for the quite gratifying information that our Republic is still providing a functional representative office, which is actually the only one within the European Union countries in Syria. I understand security problems at present, but also social and economic problems. My question, however, tends to be that historically our country had very good relations with Arab countries, especially in the economic area. I wanted to ask about the current view of your Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support our exports to this area, or what specific measures your Ministry is preparing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u128	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u129	I think that among the Arab states, we will find countries that are economically important to us today, I would almost say, to us. I'm going to name the United Arab Emirates. This is a country that is interesting to us today by the fact that the scope of trade and rising trade have a strikingly positive development. And this country is even very interesting in terms of the possibility of investment in the Czech Republic, because it is even a meeting that I conducted with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Arab Emirates, where we are already talking about specific areas in which investment in the Czech Republic could be applied, which, as you probably know, is one of the key areas for the Czech economy currently, the possibility of obtaining foreign investment. And surprisingly, even in this region, we will find countries that can make a significant contribution to this. Therefore, paying attention to them and developing a conversation is extremely important to us economically. Algeria is a relatively stable country. In fact, he has also been elected President after the election, where he was Buteflika for the fourth time. That's why the negotiations with the Algerian minister, because even in Algeria, business tends to rise. So, while on the one hand we are talking about countries tested and torn by severe conflicts, I can name you a number of Arab countries where the tendency of economic development and relations is very rising and growing. I was talking about Lebanon. On the one hand, the situation is politically very complicated, but economic development is again positive for the Czech Republic. So it is not only a solution to the issue of refugees, it is not only that we are trying to help humanitarianly, but even if we take the Arab world as a whole, it is now an important economic partner of the Czech Republic, and even in a number of countries with rising levels of economic exchange. This should probably be said here: it is not only a problem bearer, but it is an important partner, and even in a number of cases a prospective partner of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u130	Thank you. Next in line was Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, who comes with his interpellation to the Minister of Health. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u131	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I have two questions regarding the management of land owned by the Ministry of Health. The first concerns Čeladná. He grew up in the picturesque village Čeladná with the help of small European funds, about 30 million crowns, nice hotel complex, Čeladenka area. The owner of the original property is the Czech State, Ministry of Health, Health Institute in Ostrava, which rents buildings with land to Kovotour company allegedly for CZK 25,000 a month. The company reconstructed the premises and now provides hotel services. In connection with this information, I would like to ask you a few questions: Who set the rental price for the Kovotour Čeladenka complex and on what basis and under what conditions? Which land is owned by the Czech Republic with the jurisdiction of the Institute of Health in Ostrava? How many penny do you rent a square metre of land with buildings? And is the amount of the rent in line with the market price of the land lease in this location? Who gave permission for the reconstruction and construction of new properties, i.e. houses, on land owned by the state tenants, and why didn't the State itself invest in the premises, or the Ministry of Health, the Health Institute in Ostrava? [[17,00 hours]] Who owns the buildings on state property? Does it belong to the state, the health institution, or already Kovotour, when the company drew on them European subsidies? Was the land owner number 2687/13 in the past Czech Republic? If so, when did the sale take place, and why does the property that is allegedly newly built largely interfere with the land? Has the Czech Republic already sold any land to tenants of this complex through the Ministry of Health or the Ostrava Institute of Health? If so -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u132	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, you're over the clock. Let's try to break it down into two pieces, with the Minister's answer now, and the rest will be an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u133	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u134	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that the Ministry of Health is setting up many contribution organisations, many other organisations, and I will admit that I am not an expert on all rentals, subleases and other matters. As I think it is clear at first sight, Mr Hovorka's questions are very detailed. I thank you for this suggestion. I will have all these matters examined in detail by the Ministry of Health, and we will reply in writing in detail and precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u136	Thank you. All right, Mr. Ambassador, let's continue our inquiry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u137	Thank you for your kindness. I'll restock it. The lease of the land was preceded by an evaluation of the dilapidation of the original building Čeladenka. It was processed by BKB Metal. Who specifically submitted an opinion to this company and under which tender? Why did the company assess the state of the recreational facility, which deals with metallurgy and metal processing? Is there an appreciation of the entire original area according to the actual condition in which Kovotour accepted it for lease? Will the Ministry of Health, the Health Institute in Ostrava, reconsider the amount of disproportionately low rent? That's one thing. And on the second question, it concerns the lease of the premises of the Faculty Hospital Ostrava of Primecell Therapy. It is a plot on which the biotech park 4MEDi was built. How large was the state plot leased to Primecell Thermals, under which conditions it was leased and was thus made on the basis of the market valuation of the land and is part of the contract also an inflation clause? Who decided to lease this property to the company, what are the competencies of directors directly managed by the Ministry of Health organisations in the area of sale and lease of immovable property and if the said properties are registered in the system of central accounting of the Ministry of Finance of the CRAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u138	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I want to ask if the Minister will complete this. Yes, the answer will follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even here - and here I must say, as the former director of the Ostrava University Hospital, that I do not have exact figures in my head on this issue either. However, I will answer similarly. We will find out all the details, and we will answer the honourable Member in writing. I just hope - the rules for the management of state property, its lease, its sale are quite strictly regulated by legal standards. I assume and believe that the contribution organisations have complied with this legislation, but we will check it and give the Member information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u140	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I would like to ask Mrs Olga Havlová, who interpels as the tenth in the order of Mr Andrej Babiš, Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u141	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, at the level of government and ministers, the state budget is being negotiated today for individual chapters. I'd like to ask you how you intend to finance the salaries of police officers, firefighters, prison services and other security forces next year. In 2011, there was a 10 per cent flat-rate reduction, with the government promising that it was only a temporary situation and that the salaries would be settled again. Both the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have repeatedly declared that they will push for wage increases, but information in the media does not suggest that. I want to ask you if you can match the salaries of the security forces at least to the level before 2011, when their salaries were brutally reduced. On the subject of the salaries of the security forces, a seminar took place in the House and its conclusions are alarming. It can be said with certainty that about 300 police officers are in insolvency, which means that they are in danger of execution or are considering personal bankruptcy. Thirty to forty percent of police officers and firefighters live to cut their salary to the limit. And even 50 percent of the prison service has a problem paying off their debts. Bad remuneration carries an increased risk of police being led astray, creating a corrupt environment for itself. Dear Minister, I ask if you will settle the 10 per cent in the upcoming budget for the salaries of the security forces that are still being promised to them. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u142	Thank you for the interview and I would like to ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Andrej Babiš for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know who promised whom. The fact is that we have taken over this country in some condition where the previous or previous government has reduced those salaries and, of course, we are doing what we can because we have committed ourselves to a deficit that will not be greater than 3% of GDP. And unfortunately, institutions such as financial offices, customs offices, labor offices, which should actually secure tax returns, prevent excise robbers and expose the abuse of social benefits, are also undersized, have low salaries. So originally, the budget assumed a freeze, an increase of 1%, today we're at 3,5 percent and, of course, budget negotiations will continue throughout the summer. We are expecting a new macroeconomic outlook in July. I understand what the honourable Member is saying. So far, the total volume of resources of members will increase to 880 mil year on year. CZK, that means it's an increase of a thousand crowns. In recent years, the salaries of security forces members were increased by 2 percent in 2014, and another 780 miles were added to the budget of police and fire rescue units. CZK, so it is another 3.2 including the creation of new 1 204 functional seats, so year on year 2013-2014 there was an increase of 1,341 million. CZK including accessories, that means an increase of an average salary of CZK 750. So if we take the needs in terms of the salaries of members of the security forces between 2011 and the proposal for 2015, the average salary of members increased by CZK 2,500, which is 8.4 percent. I understand that there's been a 10% reduction here, but we're in a situation where we're trying to correct past measures plus, of course, investing. The army and everyone wants money. We want to build kindergarten, school capacity, so, as far as possible, I think it's a pretty decent proposal. So in terms of increasing the tariff tables of the security forces, we have agreed, so far this is 3,5 percent, and we will, of course, continue the negotiations. I think that average salaries, for example, for the police, when we speak, in the proposal for 2015 is an average salary of CZK 32 537, in the prison service of CZK 26 326, so we will definitely continue the negotiations. Unfortunately, the 2015 budget is provisional, because measures from the point of view of tax collection and the prevention of various frauds need to be dealt with legislatively and the effect will not occur until 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u144	Thank you for your answer. Is the answer enough? Thank you. There won't be an additional question. In that case, we will move on and the next winner is Mr Kostřica, who interpels again the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, let me ask you a question which I know you have inherited from before, but the faculty hospitals are being set up by the Ministry of Health, and therefore I would like to make one thing clear here, because a year ago I asked various fellow Members and 90 percent believed that all payments to hospitals for care done are the same. I believe that the current awareness of our citizens is such that they are all convinced that the same payment at Homolca Hospital is for appendicitis surgery as well as in a hospital that is more or less remote. That's not true at all. I wanted to ask you for one reason. There is talk of hospital debt, especially for example. St. Anne, where information leaks that the number of employees will be significantly reduced, but be aware that this hospital is one of those who receives the very lowest payment for care done. I know I talked to you about this in person once. The problem I see is that I think that if this hospital, which has faced this unbridled injustice for decades, should simply be favoured, because the payment it receives is one-third compared to other hospitals. I also know this from the position of President of the Society for Otorinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, which I have performed for almost ten years, and I know the performances that are performed in this hospital, for example, which I mentioned, and it is hard to understand that for the same performance of a hospital, which carries out an disproportionately smaller number of these tasks, they receive a double or triple payment. That's why I'd like to ask you if you're wondering how this could be corrected, as I said, by unbridled injustice. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask the Minister of Health for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by saying that if I had to explain in detail to this honourable auditorium the peripetia of the development of the payment mechanism, the development of basic rates, the development of payments, I would not have a few minutes to answer it, but it would have been a few hours, and that would not have been enough. Just maybe to make the situation clear. It is a fact that hospital payments are historically conditional, that they are often very deformed and that they do not reflect by far the real situation in what quality and amount of care is taken. We know that it often mattered about the situation in the years when payment mechanisms were set up. First, how individual professional companies had sharp elbows and what they won for their field, as well as how individual hospital management took advantage of the situation and took advantage of the possibility of a payment mechanism, and, let's say, very conveniently created so-called. the history from which all these payments developed over the next years by different deformations of various payment orders and various mechanisms. I would just like to add, for clarification, that above so called. the basic rates are not for the benefit of the insurance company or anyone else, but that they really result from the so-called. history of the hospital. The fact that it's not fair and it's not okay is a fact. However, what are our options today, what can we do about it? I have to say, when I was getting to know the situation within the payment system, which today is largely based on so-called bed care. DRG system, so I was appalled because the situation is much, much worse than I assumed as a user of this system, let's say, from when I was head of the faculty hospital. The system was put into some sort of autonomous run, which partly influenced, or from a significant part, health insurance companies, which had a key influence on it, partly participated in it also providers and the effect was that over the last few years the development of the system, its cultivation, essentially stagnating, devoted a few people to it, I would say dozens, full-time. The budget of this system basically includes simple maintenance. The situation today is that the DRG bases are very nonhomogenic, so if we were to pay according to them, we could cause the same DRG based performance once to cost CZK 20,000, half a million - and we will pay the same price. The 2014 remuneration decree, designed during the time of Minister Holcát, introduced some coefficients which, I think, are also not entirely fair, but at least it fixed the fact that health insurance companies are starting to pay very similar amounts for the care of hospitals. Not exactly the same, but the injustice to VZP has been eliminated. I think that we will continue to talk about the further development of the payment mechanism together, I assume the discussion on the health committee, on the wider forum, because after the first analysis that I received, it really begins to look like that, rather than cultivate this system, which is very distorted, it is partly obsolete, it is to consider whether to not restart it all, not start from scratch, not buy another DRG system and adjust it for reality in the Czech Republic. And, of course, it is up to us to discuss how to pay Czech hospitals in 2015, because the work that will be at the DRG will definitely not be done in a few months or even a year. I'm assuming a minimum of two years if it's fully staffed and hard to work on. The first step is that from 1 January we want to transfer the entire system to the Ministry of Health. We're assuming that we're going to include this under the UHIS, and we're going to discuss further developments. As far as next year's payments are concerned, I think it's a sort of debate whether we should talk about some rational flat rate with some increase, but we're not able to eliminate these inequalities fairly right now, because that's what we would do on our knees. I see this as a fundamental problem of financing Czech health care and I have to say fair and squarely that we will not do it in a few months, that it is work for years. And we have to work together to find a way to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u148	Minister, I hate to do this, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u149	Thank you. I don't really watch the clock. Thank you, and so much so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u150	Thank you. Will you have an additional question, Mr. Ambassador? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u151	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would like to say that we are aware that this injustice has recently been corrected. However, I believe that there are other options than to increase payments in some way. Recently, there has been an increase in payments for state insured persons. It's basically nothing but pumping money into health care itself. Instead of asking the Minister of Finance, who might not agree to this, payments have increased, which are basically not hurting anyone, and the funding is pumped into the health sector itself. It is a question of whether it would be possible from these funds, and I think that it would then be within the competence of the Ministry of Health, namely yours, Minister, that it would be possible to deal with the debt of certain hospitals in this way, rather than to reduce, say, the number of workers in hospitals or, where appropriate, their salaries. I think that would be a lot fairer. And last time, I'd like to ask myself a personal question. You were, as you mentioned, I know that for many years, the director of the Ostrava faculty hospital, and as far as I know, you've done very successfully. You've always kept the hospital in positive numbers. I'd like to ask if you think you'd be able to maintain this hospital even at that time in these positive numbers if your payments were disproportionately lower than in other hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I've tolerated you exceeding the time, but I'm going to ask other colleagues to respect the time they have defined by the time frame. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u153	I'll just fill in the blanks. I would perhaps first correct the one claim that was made here. The increase in the payment for state insured persons is no pumping, unfortunately, I have to say, money into the system, because only this year will it compensate us for the outage of funds for charges, next year for additional fees. So as far as this raise goes, it's zero-zero. As regards financial assistance to certain hospitals. I have to say today that unfortunately, because I think it's not good, it's not a good signal, but I'm afraid there's no other way to go to St. Anna and apparently at Na Bulovka Hospital rather than some partial financial assistance from the state I want to discuss with the government. I've already announced it, and I'm afraid there's no other way. It will certainly not be in the full amount of what accumulated debt exists there. I think management just has to show that he's capable of condoning hospital operations. Of course, there is absolutely no way, but I think there were reserves in driving. And I must say that unfortunately, the steps that are following now will not be pleasant, but it simply cannot be expected in this situation that the rescue of a hospital, which is sinking rather dramatically and where it seems to have accumulated over the last few years, will be painless. I think - and it was also my assignment for the director to communicate with the employees, with everyone, to explain that without those steps, it simply cannot be done and that in a situation where the hospital was creating and still creating, in the last year therefore, hundreds of million-dollar losses, it simply cannot be interfered with in this part. As for the question to me, how could I or couldn't handle it? [[with a smile]] I don't want it to look like I'm bragging too much. But as director of the hospital, I couldn't imagine leading her to a loss for years. Either I could just get her into black numbers and it would hurt -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u154	Minister, even at this point, time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u155	Okay. Now that I wanted to compliment myself, I can't. [[with a smile]] But thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u156	But I'm sure everyone has registered it. I'm sure you'll still have the opportunity. Thank you. [[With a smile. Glee in the hall.]] The 12th drawn in order is Mr Simeon Karamazov with an interview with Minister Marcel Chládek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u157	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, you have recently come up with a proposal for teachers to obtain the status of so-called. public persons. You responded to me. a case from a school in Boletice, Děčín, where one of the teachers collapsed after a verbal attack by parents. Let me ask you, in the context of this proposal, whether you really believe that when one of the parents or pupils decides vulgarly or even physically attack the teacher, it will discourage them from being mentioned something about a protected person in some law. Wouldn't it be more appropriate to deal with the causes of increasingly frequent attacks against teachers, so why are children more aggressive than before today, why do parents tend to attack teachers more often? Your proposal, which is probably also legally very problematic, is only the easiest way to face the problem. Unfortunately, it does not solve its causes. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I'll ask the Minister of Youth, Education and Sports for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u159	You're absolutely right, Mr. Ambassador, because none of my predecessors ever did. Not at all. Because long-term last results e.g. PISA or Czech school inspections show us a tragic climate in Czech schools. Long-term e.g. In those educational facilities, there were attacks on the tutors not only verbal, but physical. And it culminated, for example. the neck stabbed in a training facility in Rabbit. Sixty-eight assaults last year! Nobody said anything from the Ministry of Education or ashes. And no one even cared. So you're absolutely right that the Ministry of Education overslept in the past and didn't deal with it. Of course, we have to start with prevention, but it's much more complicated than that. Not only prevention, but also prestige, teacher and tutor positions must be increased. It's connected to a raise. Here I firmly believe that the House of Deputies will support an increase in funds for Czech education, and thus an increase in funds for salaries. It is also connected - and it is part of the prevention - with the conditions for creating the work of teachers and tutors. By the way, I didn't come up with this proposal at the time -- and that's the next step that falls into the mosaic, and it's not the only solution, but it belongs in the mosaic -- only in those cases about Decin. But by the way, a number of your predecessors, some of them are still in the Chamber of Deputies today, such a proposal has been tabled, I think, about two or three years ago. He did not pass the Chamber of Deputies then, and it was the status of a public official. I'm putting in discussion not the status of a public official, but a protected person. And it is also a model of Slovakia, I must confess, because this proposal already works in Slovakia, and when I simplify it, it works so that there are appropriate and tightened sentences for attacking teachers or teaching staff. Of course it won't solve it, but it can deal with cases where there is an assault on the part of adults. And today, how many times does it happen that for assaulting a teacher in the teaching process, it's dealt with by some sort of order penalty? This is where we'd go for some tougher rates. It has quite a lot of public support. But I agree with you that this is the only way we couldn't solve it. If I still have time...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u160	You've got two minutes and a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u161	Thank you. So I'm gonna stop by the educational facilities, 'cause it's even more problematic, 'cause there's already kids who've been through some crimes and, of course, they're in these facilities. We are preparing an overall concept that should address this. It includes an increase in the number of funds that will go to these facilities, because I have to confess when I am, for example. He was in the Rabbits, so it's like going back to the movie Requiem for the doll. It's just tragic. This equipment is awful. That's where you sit in your class in a chair and fall for it because it's a ripped-off old chair. You look at the window, it just falls out of sight. So no wonder those kids are running away. By the way, I have one positive example that I've been told today that one of the inmates just saved a drowning baby. That's where I thought I'd compliment him and accept him at the Ministry, but I found out he was on the run, so my enthusiasm was a little cold again. [[Laughing in the hall]] But there are also positive examples that even on the run, he saved the drowning kid. But, of course, we have to work long-term, conceptually, it's not an easy thing to do. And when I talk to individual tutors, in addition to that, we need to increase the number of employees. For two tutors to serve night service at a facility for 25 inmates, that seems too little to me. At the same time, we are also talking about supporting other courses, because there are many opinions among the tutors that they are no longer prepared for the qualifications they have today, for the situations that are happening there, and for the responses and brutality that are increasing, that they need some further training, training, how to prevent it, how to prevent it from happening. So it's a complicated issue. I'm not saying this would definitely solve it. Prevention is definitely important. But in some times of prevention, it just fails. And that concludes my contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u162	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask you, will you have an additional question? [[Member Karamazov does not ask for a supplement.]] All you had to do was answer, okay? Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who interpels the Minister of Justice Helena Válková, was drawn on the thirteenth in the order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u163	Have a nice evening. Madam Secretary, as a person who knows criminal law... I assume we know Section 65 of the Criminal Code, i.e. authorisation to look at the file, make extracts, notes and take copies of the file. Of course, we also know under what circumstances a prosecutor or a police authority may refuse such access to the file and to make extracts, notes or copies of the file in the preparatory procedure for serious reasons. That's a criminal law theory. I have one particular thing in which the parents of the deceased's son seek the police authority to provide them from a closed criminal file, i.e. from a file to which no investigation is carried out and the case has been postponed to allow them to consult such a file, or to obtain a copy of the video from the processing operation carried out at their expense. The police authority rejects this, and when they asked the prosecutor, namely the District Attorney for Prague 6, the prosecutor answers that the parties to the deceased's parents' request to hand over a copy of the video footage and access to the deceased's computer pursuant to Section 65 must state that the parents of the victim are entitled to familiarise themselves with the content of the video, but not to issue a copy of such a record, as the police authority has already stated. I would like to ask you in this regard whether you believe that this procedure of the police authority and the prosecutor is in accordance with Section 65 of the Criminal Code, or what measures can be taken to remedy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for respecting the time limit. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. Interpelling, I will answer a very precise and sufficiently specific question as follows. How the police department reacted and, in turn, the supervisory authority, the prosecutor, I do not consider the proper procedure in this matter, as you have specifically brought it closer here. This does not mean that this procedure would be illegal, however. He's not illegal, because the Penal Code really allows this interpretation. I've been thinking about it. I think that in this respect we need to go more on the basic principles and purpose of criminal proceedings, and even if it is a postponed matter, in this case it is not a matter where there are some extremely serious reasons to prevent the parents of the deceased son, who have even been prosecuted, from prosecuting an unknown perpetrator with suspicion that there has been no participation in the death of a foreign person, in such a case to dispel the doubts of the survivors, in addition to the closest relatives, parents, from being denied, at their own expense, to obtain a copy of the video footage. The only solution I see, and it will also have to be based on the interpretation not only of commentary but also of other technical literature, to build this question in such a way and so justified that when they turn back next time, because they can repeat their request and, of course, it can be assumed that the police authority will constantly reject a copy of the video footage, and I would recommend it as such the easiest, though it may not be the most effective solution, to the police authority and he will refuse it, to refer again to the supervising prosecutor, so I hope that by some clarification of the context of the case with the senior state prosecutor, the prosecutor could hypothetically, I hope, then, actually change the decision and allow them to receive a copy of the video recording. In this case, it is more humanly interesting and psychologically complicated than criminally procedural issues, because the law enforcement authority, whether it is a police authority or a prosecutor, did not really prevent such a copy from being made available to parents. It is also a question of training - I am already going very far - that, in such tragic cases, the authorities active in criminal proceedings as well as in the context of the new law on victims of criminal offences, including those who have been harmed mainly by psychological death, the trauma they experienced in connection with the death of their nearest person, in the sense that they can do so even in the sense that they can cause, albeit unwillingly, secondary harm to victims within the meaning of this law. I also thought about applying some of the provisions of the new law on victims of crimes. But that certainly requires training, because the routine procedure of law enforcement authorities is always more a matter of confusion and it could shed a bad light on their work, so they will use the relevant criminal procedural provisions to reject such a thing. On the one hand, I am not surprised, on the other hand, I would not give up my weapons, and I can certainly promise that in such a case, I will talk to the supervising prosecutor about it, so that the next time the matter gets on the table, he will proceed in a different way. I'm afraid that's all I can tell you about this place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u166	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Will you have an additional question? Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u167	Not so much a follow-up question. I didn't exactly talk about a specific matter, but the Minister knows what kind of case this is, and I am, of course, happy that her approach can also help her parents to gain access to information about the conditions under which their son died and, where appropriate, whether the authorities involved in criminal proceedings were in error in their procedures. We will make a new question, or I will recommend a new question, a request for materials, and thank you to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I want to ask if the Minister wants to respond. No, thank you. Mr Leoš Heger, who again has an interview with the Minister of Health, was drawn as the 14th in the ranking. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u169	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, the Ministry of Health launched a pilot project to determine the financial costs of various types of long-term patients at the limit of health and social care in the framework of the work on a very difficult long-term health care law in the time of the Nečasův government, and then the Ministry of Health continued in this project during the period of Minister Holcát. There's a lot of classification in the world. They are quite complex and difficult to locate one of them in our environment, but since our list of performances does not have a decent basis in this area and there is no classification in the Czech Republic to help, I believe that without this classification it is no longer possible, especially in a situation where the coalition has committed itself to removing administrative obstacles to the financing of health and social care. My question is therefore, and it is a matter that is more or less technical rather than political, whether the current Ministry of Health will continue this effort, so that the price assessment of different types of treatment days and the treatment of long-term patients and the clarification of the sessions and indications in relation to home care can be realized one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u171	Mr President, honourable Members, the Ministry of Health is planning to continue to address the concept of the system of post- and long-term bed health care and home health care, including palliative care. I want to assure this Chamber of Deputies that we certainly want to follow up on everything that has worked out in this matter at the Ministry of Health, both at the time that Mr. Docent Heger was in charge of it, so that Dr. Holcát was in charge of it. The issue of health-social care is currently addressed by the working group set up by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. The implementation of this group's output is planned by the end of the year. At the turn of the year, the Ministry of Health implemented a three-month pilot project on follow-up and long-term health care, the evaluation of which is currently being completed. 25 health and social service providers and 570 patients were involved in this pilot project. The project should enable the general idea of patient flows in the post-acute care system, to verify the functionality of the proposed patient testing and their assignment to groups according to the demands of nursing and medical rehabilitation care, to identify the spectrum of care provided by individual patient groups and the cost of providing it as a basis for determining the corresponding aggregated payments by health insurance companies. The necessary legislative arrangements for the relevant legislation will follow. For example, we plan to anchor the obligation for regular testing of patients' functional status in subsequent and long-term care and in their own social environment. The legal regulation will lay down the indicative criteria for placing the patient on the bed of follow-up or long-term care as well as the criteria for the duration of hospitalization on this type of bed. Another necessary step, however, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we consider it possible to initiate proceedings to grant a contribution to care already during hospitalization of a patient in a medical facility. In particular, the conditions for the provision of post-acute care, including the re-setting of public health insurance payments, must be clarified by recalculating the costs of individual types of treatment days in subsequent and long-term care corresponding to the functional groups to which patients will be included. The expected effect is to improve the availability of post-acute care in the ageing population and the gradual elimination of excess demand for these services, increase the efficiency of funding from health insurance, shorten the average time of hospitalization on an acute bed and clear adjustment of the rules of transfers between different types of care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u172	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask you - will you have an additional question? [[No.]] The answer was enough for you. Thank you. The 15th was drawn by Vice-President Gazdík, who intersects Minister Mládek. Unfortunately, he's not here, so I'm gonna ask you to read it into the log.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u173	Dear absent Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions in connection with the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, which is to be one of the programmes which they have already started in the next planning period of the European Union, also to administer funds for rural areas, especially for community-led local development. From the words of the Prime Minister, who has already said here today, we have learned that your ministry and your deputy Novotný, who is famous as director of the regional operational programme of Central Bohemia and whose hands have been through such amazing cases as Buštěhrad or some hospitals in Central Bohemia for Mr. Governor Rath, who are currently being tried, decided that community-led local development will be largely developed in the municipalities and cities of the Czech Republic using CzechInvest. [[ironically]] You already feel that there is a bit of a contradiction, because community-led local development is to be conducted in the community, not through CzechInvest. I would like to ask, Minister, if it is true that a total of 100 billion to be allocated to micro-enterprises and of which about three to five billion should be distributed through local action groups, will indeed be distributed through CzechInvest and local action groups will only be included in various programmes as specific people, as advisory bodies. If you think it's right and if you don't consider it another new tunnel like the regional operational program of Central Bohemia. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And next, Mr. Vácha František, who is intersecting Minister Chládek. He's not here either, so I'm also going to ask you to read into the log.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I saw the minister outside the door. He's coming, great!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u176	He's here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u177	So, in order to get another interview, I'm gonna be really quick. Minister, I am interviewing you on the abolition of the call 2.1 of the VaVpI Operational Programme, strengthening the research activities of the VaV Centres. We know that this was a support for the return of high-quality scientists from abroad. We received a notice of cancellation of this call on 15 May. The competition included an interview with these foreign scientists, which took place on 15 April, a month before the cancellation. Following the cancellation of the successful applicants wrote a mass open letter to the Ministry of Education and, in reply to this letter, I would quote that, in view of the development of the financing of the entire operational programme, it turned out at the beginning of 2014 that the managing authority would not have sufficient funds to cover all its commitments if it issued a decision to grant subsidies to projects successful in challenge 2.1! That means you -- the ministry knew at the beginning of the year that it wouldn't have any money, yet you let the whole competition take place. And what bothers me and the applicant most is that you convinced foreign scientists to travel to the Czech Republic for their own money to talk, even though you knew you wouldn't have the money to do it anymore. That means, I'm asking why you didn't stop the contest in time. Why did you force foreign scientists to travel to the Czech Republic for their own money?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u178	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I'm begging you, let it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u179	Yes, and if it is possible to use the money from the OP VVV to finance the same program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u180	Okay, more questions for the supplemental block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u181	Thank you. Unfortunately, this is an inheritance for my predecessors, because this alert was not already in 2014, but it was already in 2012, when the audit authority of the Ministry of Finance warned your fellow Member, Mr. ex-minister Fiala, that there would be over-binding and that there would be a threat of over-binding. But the biggest problem ever occurred in 2013, when this challenge, if it were prepared in time, would still have the impact for 2014, given that in 2013, January or February, decided on this project respectively. about this call, and it was to be processed by the relevant director and the relevant director processed it for about seven months. Coincidentally the director's name was Dalibor Štys, and when he finished it, Dalibor Štys, then as an ex-minister, at that time the minister, approved it in November 2013, although he was warned that there might be significant problems. And the former Deputy Director for the Zaorálek Funds, who basically continued the challenge, although he should have interrupted it, and the interruption occurred only after the change in the position of Deputy Minister. We have done this with the new Deputy Minister: firstly, the problem of the VaVpI operational programmes has really opened up overall, because originally I was persuaded and also my predecessors - and here, on the other hand, I will now stand up for them in this particular matter, that they have been pointed out that it is not such a problem that the loss will not be like this, and I have been called "that is seven billion" too. In the end, we found out it was ten billion. And on top of that, the misfortune of overtaking four billion. [[17.50 hours]] We were faced with a decision whether to let these challenges go on at the moment, but to pay for it from national money at the expense of universities, or the second alternative that we agreed to but only after the discussion with universities, and that we agreed with universities that they would finance these things from their budgets for one year, we will, of course, try to help them financially even in that year, and in this new VVV operational programme we will continue this call, or it will be announced again. There should be no loss even in the applicants who were there. I don't want to even appeal to the fact that the challenge can simply be cancelled, that there is no claim on it, etc. But I think it's good for foreign scientists to really be here. That is why we want to enable them to do this in the VVV operational programme. The VaVpI program is much deeper, because we will have to deal with other and other challenges, because it is really one of the two worst drawing funds. In addition, we will still have to address the sustainability of the major projects, because, as the Minister has come along, he will tell me that we are dealing with this very significantly, when the major centres will have - and let us say it openly - a big problem to make a living and to hold on to the future. [[turns to Minister Jour, who agrees to nod her head]] Our goal, of course, is to do our utmost to minimize the losses, because we can't solve it completely. And one of those steps was to make sure it wasn't at the expense of the universities, so for that one year to solve it this way and at the same time put it in the OP VVV program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u182	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask... [[Member Vácha in front of the speaker's desk: I'm only going to sit down for a while, so I'm not going to ask about the microphone. The Minister agrees that he will sit for a while and can discuss an additional question with Mr Vácha.]] Okay, so I guess the minister can sit down for a while. I will ask the 17th in order, and this is Mr Michal Kučera, who intersects the Minister of Transport, Mr Antonín Prachař - into the tapestry because he is not present here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u183	Thank you for the floor and thank my colleague František for solving this in another way. The connection of the southern part of the Ústí Region, the district of Louna and Litoměřice, with Prague is also crucial because of the employment issue, which is high in the Ústí Region. The improvement of transport availability can also increase the reconstruction of railway line No. 114 Postoloprty - Louny - Lovosice. The Louna section - Lovosice will pass the train in one hour and twenty minutes, which is a distance of 34 kilometers. From this section Louna - Libochovice goes the train 51 minutes and travels a distance of 20 kilometers. According to my information, the reconstruction of the line does not require large investments and technically low-cost adjustments should make transport in this section significantly faster. I would like to ask you, Minister, to examine the possibility of reconstruction of Line No. 114 in the section Louny - Lovosice with the aim of accelerating transport on this section. After the reconstruction carried out, the journey to Prague with the transfer in Lovosice could take less than one hour, which would significantly facilitate the journey to work and at the same time lighten the overloaded R7 communication in the section Chomutov - Louny - Praha and on the road no. 6 Salty - highway D8 - Nová Ves. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u184	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the eighteenth, Mr. Milan Šarapatka is here. Given the time, I think it's likely to be the last interpellation. It's for the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. At this point, I don't see him present, so I'm gonna... [[Minister Zaorálek is speaking with two Members in the ČSSD bench. The other Members warn the President that the Minister is present.]] You will be intersected, Minister. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u185	Hello, Minister. I confess that when you joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I put all my hopes in you and expected you to sweep up Augiášův's stable, which remained at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after the previous leadership, when virtually total destruction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took place, and his activities were effectively limited to the area of human rights. I have to say, that's why I'm a little concerned about the current situation, or it seems to me that the changes are going very slowly. And I'm struck by some nominations for ambassadors, for example. I'd like to name Mr. Ex-Deputy Dub here, for example. To this I would like to say that, as is known, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is participating in the Czech Export Bank, EGAP, and in these institutions the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has just represented the then Deputy Dub, both of which have found themselves in major problems. I therefore believe that, as Deputy Director, he should also have appropriate responsibilities. I would like to remind you that he is leaving for the most lucrative post that exists in our diplomacy. The same question: Why is he leaving or why was he nominated for the ambassadorial post Mr. former Secretary General Plíšek, who was practically a man for the dirty work of former Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg and in a rather defensive way drove out people who, for example, now successfully defend themselves and return to the Ministry after losing judgments. I'm here to name Ambassador Chmel and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u186	Your time is up, Congressman. I ask you, may the Minister answer the question and ask the rest. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u187	Thank you. He is not making this easy for me, because I would like to point out that speaking of nominations for any ambassadorary posts here publicly in the House, if the process is at some stage, that is, it is not yet so far away that the state in question would be granted an agreement, or consent to the appointment of the ambassador, to me. Just appointing an ambassador is a process that takes place as a rather intimate matter between the state to which we send the ambassador and the person who sends the ambassador. I don't feel happy debating those names before the process is over. And unfortunately among the names that fell here, with the exception of former Deputy Dub, these are names that... These are simply not decisions made in such a way that they can be publicized. So I'm pointing out that the debate about ambassadors at all, I think, should be until the moment the ambassadors are sent, and it's really confirmed by the country they're sent to, so it should be banned. And I can't comment on these things. As for Mr. former Deputy Deputy Dub, he ended up acting Deputy Head of the Ministry. He actually spent the whole time working there dealing with the area of economic diplomacy, and this was the decision that we finally made together. It has been followed by the Constitution as we are ordered, proposals are made for the government and then discussed with the President. And let's say after a consensus arises, they can only submit themselves to the state and then it's published. So here I can say that this is simply the result of the process of finding the ambassador in Tokyo. And given the abilities and the fact that he got a certain erudition in the economic field, which I believe was confirmed by a number of co-workers, even those who were in the Ministry, there was just a consensus on his nomination to Tokyo confirmed today. [[unintelligible]] I think that if we were to discuss some more, I don't know if it's ideal to do it here over the microphone. But I am prepared to discuss this with the honourable Member, but I certainly cannot speak publicly about the processes that have not been completed. I'm sorry. I made that clear that I was ruling out in the future. If those names appear somewhere in the media, and if they're not speculation, which is sometimes true, I'm sorry. I'm gonna do everything I can to keep those debates from happening about people or about people who aren't finally confirmed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-015-109.u188	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask if there will be any follow-up questions, we have one minute to go. It's not. Thus, since the last interpelation can be laid at 17.55 hours, the next interpellation will no longer take place. I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your diligence and continued to the end. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. I'm interrupting today's meeting to continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Have a nice day.
