ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u1	132. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Mrs Miroslava Němcová, on leaking information from wiretapping and information from investigative files to the media, is to be interviewed first, but the Member is not present. This also applies to the second interpelation, so I interrupt interpelation number 1 and 2 for the absence of interpelatory. We will deal with the third intervention on Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will interpel the Prime Minister on purchased land for road, rail, water and energy construction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u2	I guess I can talk now, even though the Vice-President didn't ask me out. I asked the Prime Minister five specific questions about the law we adopted. It was at the time when the law was being discussed in the Senate. I disagreed with the answer, not because we differ with the Prime Minister in whether the law is good or bad, or whether some of the paragraphs will help or not, but because, Prime Minister, through the Vice-President, you have unfortunately not answered my specific questions. You summed up the legislative process in your reply, you summed up some of the information that was in the explanatory report and that was heard during the debate either here or in the Senate, but my key question - if I sum up, let me not read all five, because all my colleagues and all my colleagues have the text of both my interpelation and your reply available as House press number 322 - was how the law will apply. [[9.10 hours]] Because in the debate that has been held here, in all readings, the Minister of Transport, and it is good that he is here and, if necessary, he may be involved in this debate by being a written interview, he said to us: I will issue an internal regulation, in which probably, because at that time the internal regulation has not yet been issued, there will be an offer of eight times the time that the entity, whether it is a natural person or a legal person, has to express itself. If he doesn't express himself within a predetermined deadline, we'll offer him four times. If it doesn't express itself within the second period, maybe double. And if he doesn't accept the offer, there are two options. Either he asks 16 times, and the Transport Minister himself will have the authority to decide whether or not to comply or to self-own. I don't want to go back to discussing the law, because we're done here. The law is valid, the law is effective. I was just asking what the practice of expropriating authorities would be. And I wrote it in the interpellation. Because according to the opinion of the people who are experts in expropriation law, the state can proceed to expropriation at the moment when it has exhausted all the possibilities of the agreement. And since the law states that the seller is entitled to receive up to 16 times the estimated price, I believe that he can expropriate himself only if the natural or legal person does not accept 16 times. Which is a different kind of information and a different procedure than the one that was mentioned here during the debate on this law. We have proposed - and I must say that unsuccessfully, and I fully respect that the majority in the House and in the Senate had a different opinion - that it should be anchored exactly eight times in the law, and then, if no one accepted it, first of all, the Minister of Transport would not have to decide himself as a single person, and secondly, there would indeed be a reason for expropriation. It's not surprising that I'm no fan of expropriation. I think that expropriating the state should only be done if someone, owner or group of owners, hinders construction in the public interest for ideological reasons. And those cases are not enough, unfortunately, and both civil servants know it, and the authorities know it, that it is often not a matter of debate. It is often not even about the price, and very often the opponents are opposed to the construction simply for their ideal or ideological reasons. And then, of course, in my opinion, it is permissible for the state to proceed to expropriation. I would like to know your opinion, Prime Minister, whether this construction will be expropriating itself only at 16 times, if you think it is correct. I understand that neither I nor the government, nor any member of the government, nor the House, will make specific decisions by the expropriation authorities, but I say, since then, I have had a debate with people who deal with it in the Moravian-Silesian region, for example, and who have confirmed our view that it will be expropriated at 16 times. Otherwise, it won't be possible. In that case, however, it is a different procedure than that which has been announced here during the debate, and perhaps if the Minister of Transport is involved in the debate. If I have the correct information, but I have not seen the text of the internal regulation, of course, but I have information that the Ministry has retreated from the declared intention of 8-4 -2 at some time, as it was said here, that if I sign that you have eight times within 40 days, if you sign four times within 60 days, if you double it within 80 days, something similar. But the basic problem is, in my opinion, it can be expropriated at sixteen times, and then I think it would be wiser to have one number in the law, sixteen times, and either the citizen would accept it, or the owner, or there might be an expropriation institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u3	I thank Mr Stanjur. I am opening a general debate to which the Prime Minister is reporting. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I am pleased that we are in agreement with Mr Stanjura that something needs to be done about the current situation which is unsatisfactory. If we look at the current situation, unfortunately still basically the current situation, it has not changed much so far, because the new law has only recently been approved in the legislative process, and if we look at the current situation, we will look at the state of the purchase of land on the route of some strategic roads, for example the R35 route in Pardubice, respectively. Hradeckým, but especially in the Pardubice Region, this is a situation where much of the purchases were stopped. It was stopped because people refused to sell the land, the owners refused to sell the land at the current purchase price. At the same time, by discussing this amendment, which has now been discussed and which has been approved, everyone else stopped selling because they were waiting for new rules to be approved. And now there should be that break that we are all looking for, and we expect that it will actually be possible, based on these new rules, to go back to buying land where it is necessary for the construction of transport infrastructure. I don't want to go back to history here, but there's been a lot of mistakes here and in the past. Obviously, the change in the rules that a priori was motivated by the government's efforts to save money for the purchase of land was not a happy change. This has indeed been negative in recent years. The citizens simply refused to sell their land more, the number of land designated for expropriation proceedings increased, and if this were to go in this direction, we would probably not have received any new buildings in the field of line construction. I am therefore glad that this relevant amendment has been approved, and it is now up to the Ministry of Transport to prepare the relevant internal directive, which will define the state's procedure in terms of the purchase of these land and which will also define precisely the conditions for the application for expropriation. I assume that the directive will also contain such parameters as will eliminate any doubts of the expropriation authorities so that the expropriator's request is not rejected. But I do not think that at this time we can anticipate the procedure of expropriating authorities based on the use of the directive that is currently being prepared at the Ministry of Transport. We set a legal framework. Within this position, the Minister of Transport will have to proceed. I firmly hope that the legal framework will be sufficient to make a qualitative change in terms of land purchase and that a procedure will be prepared, which will actually include the possibility of submitting a qualified proposal to expropriate the land if it fails to agree with the owner despite all efforts made by the State. I believe that even the fact that we are giving the Ministry of Transport the opportunity to offer a higher price for expropriating the land is a step that is conducive to landowners. The state chooses this method. They do not choose the method, say, tightening restrictions or softening the conditions for the expropriation procedure itself. We do not interfere with this, but we increase the comfort for landowners, and I think that is also something that should be perceived as part of the assessment of those expropriation proposals. In any case, you are right about the fact that it will be at the Road and Motorway Directorate, it will be up to the investor to actually prove without any doubt that the expropriation proposal is qualified and that the submission of this proposal preceded the maximum possible effort to buy the land out. So much very briefly on the edge of your follow-up questions you have. I believe that more can be said about this after the definitive form of the relevant decree is known and more can be said after we have had some practice with regard to the application of the procedure on the basis of the new law that we have adopted. [[9.20 hours]] I believe that in order to assess how the law will work in practice, we will need at least six months, maybe a year to be able to assess whether there has really been a positive change, a positive breakthrough that we all, I firmly hope, are promising from the new legal standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Stanjura is next reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u6	Thank you for the floor. I want to confirm the Prime Minister's final words. I think we all wish the process would speed up. My questions were rather directed at the fact that I think that the chosen procedure, which has been announced in the debate, will be correct, and I agree with the Prime Minister, to offer higher prices, but I think that if the application is as announced in the debate and the requested acceleration simply does not occur, because if we do not offer 16 times more, I think the risk of expropriation is increased even at a lower price offered, thereby extending the whole process. That is the main reason for both interpelation and for saying that the government's target is correct, but the method does not give us the happiest in terms of speeding up. We are in agreement that he will offer better and fairer prices to owners. There's no problem with that. In your reply, Prime Minister, you also quote that the Minister of Transport will have the power to intervene at the moment when there is an obvious injustice arising before the law is effective. This means, when I translate it, that if the price, according to the previously applicable adjustment, would be higher than the one offered, eight times, the Minister of Transport has the right and the opportunity to make up for it. That's right. I'm just asking why we didn't actually choose the procedure when we suggested we go back to the old regulation. Then there could be no injustice, because if it were to be assessed according to the same rules as before the amendment that was in force since 1 January 2013, we could save this process and we could speed up the system and the time course of expropriation. And that is actually the only dispute whether I can even call it a dispute or rather a debate about what instrument to choose. This is not even a dispute about whether prices are reasonable or not. I was based on the information and opinion of the lawyers that if he had to proceed to expropriation, it would only be 16 times. And if that's a relevant opinion, and if it's even government legislation, and that's why I gave the interview, I think it's faster to offer 16 times more and speed up the process when the owner asks and says eight times is not enough. That was the only reason. It is not something that we and priori criticize, because it is a government proposal and because our amendments have failed. I believe that more than six months is a relevant period of one year for impact assessments. Because the owner will have a hundred days from the moment he gets the offer. We are not impatient, I think that it will be able to really assess at the end of 2015 whether there has been an increase in prices, it will certainly occur, there will be better and fairer prices for the owners, but whether there has also been an acceleration. That's what I think we agree on. Our comments or ideas have led to the process as quickly as possible. I believe you do not understand this as a priori criticism of the government, but rather a debate about which instrument and what method will be faster. The problem raised by lawyers is that the expropriation act can only be based on general law, which is certainly not the internal directive of any minister. That means it applies to the Minister of Transport. The fact that an investor organisation must comply with the directive is absolutely clear. We're not discussing that at all. If the head of an investor organization subordinate to the Ministry of Transport does not follow the directive, he will be replaced. I think it's pretty simple. It is more about whether this directive will have any weight in the expropriation procedure. We're afraid not, but I agree with you that time will judge our dispute. We just wanted to make a good contribution to the state buying out quickly if possible, and to ensure that communication - on which I think political agreement rules - is not a big contradiction between the various clubs that are key to communication - I will, of course, always say that R35 is the first and I am glad that the Prime Minister spoke about it. The second connection between Moravian and Czech regions is very important. The second place is, and this view is not entirely popular throughout the country, the Prague circuit. I think it is not, as interpreted, just a circuit for the people of Prague, but it is a circuit that everyone needs to get to the radials that are here, quite quickly and comfortably. If I could recommend it, and I think it is nothing against the strategic documents of the Ministry of Transport and the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole, it is these two key communication when I talk about roads. With railroads, I think the corridor routes are clearly defined, and there are absolutely no doubts about priorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur. The Prime Minister wants to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I think I will start where Mr Stanjura ended up. I am glad that there is at least an elementary consensus here concerning some key strategic communications in the Czech Republic. I think it gives us some hope that if we manage to get the Line Buildings Act into the legislative process, if this law is once passed in our country, then it will give us a chance to agree on some key strategic structures across the political spectrum here in the Chamber of Deputies. I agree that R35 as an alternative to D1 after 25 years since 1989, which we are remembering this year, is a disgrace and it is a pity that the only thing we have come to is the modernisation of D1. I'm sure it's a good thing we got to modernize D1, even though it creates huge traffic problems in recent months and years, but modernization is absolutely necessary. But unfortunately, we didn't get much further. That means the government's goal is to move forward so that we can make a lot of progress in terms of R35 construction. I also agree that the Prague circuit is definitely not just a question of Prague. I might add that for our country, which is located in the heart of Europe and which sells it very often when we seek new investment, so we say that we are at the heart of Europe, it is a beneficial logistical form, and then, when investors look at the map, they find that our motorway connection with our neighbours is not finished even after 25 years. This means that when you look, where there was an iron curtain, we have a problem with the motorway connection to this day, except for the connection to Germany in the Plzeň Region. The completion of the motorway connection with Austria and the completion of the D8 are undoubtedly another key transport priority that the government has. I know that in the past, and I've already talked about it in part, the pendulum has moved a little bit from one side to the other. There was a law, there was legislation, which was here before 2013. The legislation allowed certain purchase prices. Then the pendulum shifted in an attempt to save money, which led to a halt in purchases. We're trying to get the pendulum back a little bit and maybe get it somewhere where we feel it's a equilibrium state. It wasn't the government's intention for us to get to some other opposite extreme. I remember that when we were discussing the material on the government, the bill proposed that it would be up to 16 times, so we faced criticism in part of the press, in part of the media, that we waste money unnecessarily, that it is too much that it should not be up to this level. I understand the need to be careful. We also tried not to get too far into the opposite extreme, from the extreme, where on the one hand the state offered so little that people refused to sell, to the opposite extreme, if we were to spend too much money in order to speed up and realize purchases. This also answers Mr Stanjura's question. Ranges, individual grades are necessary there in terms of actually taking care of the proper economy. And practice in the coming months and years will show the extent to which it was responsible, to what extent it has really enabled us to do so even at eight times to ensure the acceleration of purchases and to ensure the acceleration of construction. That's what I think is one thing that's really going to show up. [[9.30 hours]] I would like to defend that principle simply because, in a number of cases, these funds will be enough to solve the buy-out problem. Not everywhere, but I'm sure there'll be cases where that'll be enough. And there the state will pay a reasonable price and behave like a proper caretaker. The last point concerns the expropriation process based on existing legislation. I think it may be necessary to go through the expropriation process in a few cases. Let's see how the state stands with the existing form of law that is here at the moment. If it turns out that the state is not quite successful according to our expectations, we can certainly analyse the legislation and have a debate in the future whether we should adjust it in some way. I don't think it'll show up until some kind of expropriation practice. Of course, I wish those expropriation cases were as low as possible, because it's always a big delay, it's always a lot of stress, it's always a big conflict between the state and the owner of the property. We will certainly, from the perspective of the government, from the point of view of the Ministry of Transport we will try to proceed in such a way that these cases are as little as possible. To answer the question, if the law is sufficient from the point of view of the expropriation process, we will have to wait until we have a few concrete examples of real-life expropriation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Antonín Prachař, after whom Mr Stanjura, joined the general debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, I would like to respond to the debate on Act 416. I would just like to assure Mr Stanjura through you, Mr President, that the directive governing the procedure of investor organisations was issued by me immediately after the law entered, I think, on 13 September, after it came out in the Collection, in effect. Today, investor organisations are proceeding under this Directive. The directive was evolving. We do not want to delay the process of purchase of land, so we have modified this directive in the competence of the Minister of Transport so that it is eight times directly within 90 days. Ninety days is the time limit that is given, then the expropriation process can begin. We can't shorten this deadline. I already have the first results when we approached landowners on strategic roads, especially highway D11, R11. Every two weeks at regular meetings with the Road and Motorway Directorate, I develop on these important matters the purchase of land on strategic roads. I also have a table here that looks something like this. [[shows the tablet table to Members]] The yellow parts mean the owner accepted the offer eight times. That means, at the moment, I can say that we are very successful in negotiating agreements with landowners. With regard to the possibilities of adapting this band, we have chosen this option so that we do not have to come to the Chamber of Deputies every time to discuss a long adjustment, whether eight times, nine times or ten times, in the context of the market developments that we are going to succeed. That is why we have stated in the law that it can be up to 16 times, and a certain mandate since the age of 18 is within the competence of the Minister of Transport. The Minister of Transport is not a centurion. The directive describes exactly how the Minister can grant an exemption. The exemption is accompanied by documents at the request of the investor organisation, signed by the Director of the Department of the Urban Plan of the Ministry of Transport, and may or may not grant an exemption on the basis of such recommendations. So it's not for the sake of one person, whoever's sitting there. We will know the real results of this process in 90 days, which means sometime in the first quarter of 2015. I think this law is one of the important points, I'm not saying it solves everything, but one of the important points to speed up the construction process, of course, the purchase of land. If there is a property settlement, there is an opportunity to continue the project documentation preparation process. It's not self-saving, but it's one of the parts that can help. Others, other ways to accelerate this process, are working at the Ministry of Transport. For example, the amendment to Act No 13, which has already been discussed in the Legislative Council of the Government. I assume he will be placed on the government agenda as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u11	Thank you, Minister Prachař. Mr Stanjura, Mr Šidlo, is also in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u12	I want to thank the Prime Minister for that answer, for the debate we're having today. I will not suggest that the House disagree with the answer, because I think the debate has gone very well. I have one particular case, it's more like the Minister of Transport. This is precisely the problem of expropriating communication, which is crucial for the Moravian-Silesian region. It is a construction on the I/11 section of the Mokré Lazka - the border of the Ostrava district. It happened that the state expropriated, built, and at this moment succeeded the former owner. He has a final judgment that the expropriation did not take place in accordance with Czech law. I'd like the Minister to sort this out through ŘSD, because it's a very complicated situation. The error was most likely made at the City Council of Ostrava during the transfer performance of the state administration at the time of the expropriation. It's very unpleasant, it's a very miserable situation for the investor, even for the owners. The building's on that property, part of the communication's done, I'm not saying it's collapsed, it's built. Now, about four weeks ago, this guy was in my MP's office, and I promised him I'd mention it. I discussed this with the Deputy Minister at ŘSD during the seminar, which was also attended by the Minister. It needs to be looked after. I am going to enrich this debate with some of the tools that, in my opinion, I do not know whether they were always to be dealt with by legislation or perhaps by executives. The problems that arise during purchases are also those where the planned route divides the owner's land, and now he has a piece left and a piece right, very often without meaningful use. According to the existing regulations and procedures, the investor organisation cannot redeem the remaining parts, and this, of course, is a complication for the owner as well as for the investor organisation. So maybe together, we could look for possibilities for the state's ŘSD to also do land exchanges. Many private farmers are ready to give up the land, they don't want money, they want another plot, but ŘSD doesn't have the competence to negotiate the exchange. It's very complicated, other state authorities are entering and the deadline for building preparation is extended again. When I talk about the rest of the land, I experienced a situation where the investor didn't want to buy the inside of the roundabout, because the arguments of those officials were that there was no communication. So imagine the owner that someone on your property buys you a roundabout and says, "Keep the inside, Mr. Owner." Maybe he was a bad clerk, they're afraid, of course, that if they buy out a meter more than the exact route of communication they might have a problem someday. I don't blame them. I have always interceded and intercededed for cooperation with self-government, whether municipal, urban or regional, because there are, of course, higher opportunities to deal with owners or buy out the property's remains. If the State and the investor organisation of the state had that power, it could often be more successful and often faster. As I said in my first performance, there are two types of owners. The vast majority, the overwhelming majority, are ready to give up in favor of some construction of their property if it gets a fair offer. But then they have a problem with, for example, the land remnants, which then really have no meaningful use anymore. Then there's the other distinct minority that just doesn't want to deal with the state, which wants to block the building, and that's the area for expropriation. [[9.40 hours]] I think we can also look for other ways to expand the possibilities for investor organisations in the buyout process. Of course, there is a risk that someone will again be accused of buying out 100 square meters that are not on the road. But on the other hand, I think that the benefit of the company that this communication is going to be a year, two, three earlier, balances the price for maybe 1,000 meters, maybe 800 meters, sometimes it's not really large areas, but the owners are right to say, "What am I supposed to do about it? Then buy this, too, and then we'll make a deal." Then think of it more as an incentive for further consideration. This probably needs to be assessed by the legislature whether it wants to change the law, or it is in executive authority and can only be adjusted by an established procedure in those purchases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u13	Thank you to President Stanjur. Mr Bendl, Mr Šidlo, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u14	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will use this opportunity to interpel my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura to the Prime Minister, to say that it is a good thing that we finally agreed that the state has more options and a greater spread in the amount of money, how to buy out land for the purpose of building publicly beneficial buildings, what communication they are undoubtedly. In the past, the Prime Minister may remember when, as Minister of Finance, the Central Bohemia Region helped the state to buy out land just under communication, where public administration and the county and municipalities were not covered by this state decree and the regions could buy out land. And for the sake of good development of the region, we were actually buying land for the state and, in agreement with the state and with the Ministry of Finance and Transport. However, I would like to draw your attention, Prime Minister, not only to land purchases under future communications, but also to land purchases under existing communications. Because in the past regime, roads were built the way the state planned, without looking at private owners. It turns out that we still have a relatively significant number of landowners still in 2014 under communications which the owner cannot use. And it's up to the state to take care of this matter and clear up this matter and buy out the land under communications. I wanted to ask if you were aware of this situation and whether you were prepared to deal with it. Alternatively, if the Minister of Transport could answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u15	I thank Mr Bendl. Mr Šidlo is also enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u16	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would also like to take advantage of this space of interpelling Mr Stanjura to address one of my doubts, which was also raised during the review of Act 416. The Prime Minister here said what the problems were with the initial implementation of the previous amendment to Act 416, what the complications were and how the land purchases were blocked. But there's one thing I want to point out. There is a very problematic provision that we are based on so-called. the prices to be determined. The original intention, because I have been here for a long time in the Chamber of Deputies when the amendment to Act 416 was discussed, was directed, virtually. the whole law was adopted, it was directed to reduce the price of land, which represented around 20 per cent of the final cost of the investment in transport infrastructure at the time. We tried to lower prices so that they correspond to real land bonite prices. However, the problem is that there was a situation where this measure, which was adopted, was not implemented in practice. It was still based on the cost of construction land, or judicial experts used a valid decree that spoke of land prices below the transport infrastructure at a price of CZK 100, and there was never a projection of the amount actually corresponding to the amount given by the quality of the land on which it was intended to be built. So I am concerned that even the fact that it has not changed and has not been properly interpreted and that it has not been linked to other legal standards in terms of the question of the price, so the price will be determined as in the past, and unfortunately this amendment to Act 416 is multiplying these prices. So in the end, the original concern that we are moving somewhere on about one fifth and sometimes even more of the final implementation prices of transport infrastructure will also be at the cost of a certain acceleration, although I am not 100% convinced that speeding up must occur, but we will be at prices much higher in terms of the land purchase ratio to the final realization price. Here I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it would be possible in any way to revise the legal standards that are linked to the determination of the price for purchases or the expropriation of the land, so that we actually move in the real conditions of the previous provisions of the law, and thus to the amendment that has been adopted at present. And I have one more comment, and let me turn to the Minister of Transport and ask him if it would be possible at the time when he was able to evaluate the real costs related to the expropriation and purchase of the land for the period he referred to, say, around the first quarter of 2015, he made us available to us, and I would also say to all members of the Economic Committee, a comparison of the costs of the land purchase related to the original way of purchase and expropriation of the land that was carried out in the road transport infrastructure. And those that have been set up by the amendment to Act 416 where they talk about the application of the directive and the multiples that are related to the prices set. Because I think it will be an important clue that, unfortunately, even at the cost of possible speeding up, we do not increase the cost of buying so disproportionately that ultimately our transport constructions in the public interest will be even more expensive than they have been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u17	I thank Mr Šidl. Now Minister Prachař. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u18	Mr President, I do not want to prolong this debate, however very interesting and beneficial, unnecessarily. I would just like to assure Mr Šidla that, at a time when we did an analysis of what multiple we wanted to use for purchases so that we did not motivate and prolong and increase the cost of expropriation proceedings, which ultimately would be paid by the State, when we did the effects of maximum use up to 16 times, so we reached a figure where the impacts on the price of transport infrastructure buildings were in the range of 2,5 percent. This means that even in the hypothetically worst case, as the opposition proposed, increase and set the marker, even the 16 times, we would get to the cost of about 2,5 percent for the construction of transport infrastructure. I would like to point out that in tenders today we are reaching discounts compared to project prices, prices in the budget between 30 and 40 per cent. But, of course, we're ready to process these impacts once we have an evaluation. However, we do not expect that the increase in purchase prices would have a drastic effect on the prices of transport buildings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u19	Thank you, Minister Prachař. The Prime Minister's next report. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, naturally what Mr Bendl mentioned is true. This means that the State should also focus on clearing the issue of ownership under existing communications. This also applies to second and third-class communications owned by regions. And there I have to say that the programme is underway and will continue in the coming years, when the government supports the process of buying land under second and third categories of communications. Perhaps I would still comment on what was said in Mr Šidla's speech, because he asked this question, asking such a rhetorical question, do we even need to speed up the construction of transport infrastructure? I know we talk about this a lot, and priori, we assume it's right that we need to speed things up. And I think there are rational arguments why we should speed up the construction of transport infrastructure. That's just it, I think there's a whole series of arguments. I'll mention only a few. [[9.50 hours]] The pragmatic one concerns the method of financing this construction. You know that we are not quite able to draw European funds. However, we have a chance, because at least in the next and perhaps in the next programming period we will be among the net beneficiaries within our membership of the European Union and we have the opportunity to co-finance our transport structures from the resources we obtain from the richer states of the European Union through European funds. So it is advantageous for us to try to build transport infrastructure intensively and be able to drain all these funds available to us because it would not be reasonable for us to return the money. In the future, such a situation may not happen again. I firmly believe that the standard of living in our country will grow, that we have a positive outlook and that we will be approaching the European Union average, sooner or later the Czech Republic will cease to be a net beneficiary, or our position will be equal in terms of what we are doing and how we are getting from the European Union's resources. This is certainly one of the reasons why it is worth speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure at this time. But it also has something to do with the economy. It is related to how production processes have changed, how warehouses have shifted essentially to roads in terms of business, from the point of view of production in the Czech Republic. And the intensity of transport in a number of regions is beyond the possibilities of existing transport infrastructure, and even there, I think it is important that we speed up construction not only in terms of preventing accidents and avoiding problems in terms of transport, but also in order to improve the environment and improve the living conditions for people who now live along the road of the first category, which we may be trying to replace by express roads or motorways. So I think that there are completely realistic, rational arguments for the government as one of its priorities to accelerate the construction of transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, Mr Šidlo. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u22	The Prime Minister's performance. I understand him, of course, it was not a rhetorical question of whether to accelerate the construction of transport infrastructure. I was rather going to what he also mentioned, it was a question of the economy of transport infrastructure construction. Because, in a way, I still see that the costs of building one kilometer of any road infrastructure in the Czech Republic are still high. I think it is the question of buying land that contributes to the price and increasing it. That is why I was also directing my request, or a small request, in the sense that we could also be concerned in the future with the correct interpretation of the term set by the price. Because it has unfortunately not penetrated all legislative measures of the Czech Republic, which are used in practice precisely for the determination of land prices, especially for transport infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u23	I thank Mr Šidl and ask who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude the general debate and ask Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, as proposed by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this answer. The Member does not propose a resolution. I thank him and end this written interpelation. Another interpelee will be the absent Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, who responded to Mrs Pěnčíková's interpelation on the foresting activities of Mr Gunnar Grabowský. Interpelation together with the response shall be presented as printing of 326. The discussion of this response was suspended last Thursday. I am opening the debate to which Mrs Pěnčíková is reporting. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u24	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Since the Minister is absent again, I would like to ask for an interruption of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u25	Thank you. I shall therefore interrupt this point for the absence of the Minister. We will vote on the suspension of this point. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby, see if it's any use. [[Members sporadically go to the hall.]] I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. [[The number of Members present has not been achieved.]] Please, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u26	Obviously, when 47 Members are present, we cannot vote. The next interview - it has written interpelations - is again on the Minister of Agriculture. For the first time, I got very upset, that was two weeks ago. I got a little upset last week. I'm not upset anymore. The Minister of Agriculture, Prime Minister, just doesn't come here. Make sure he's okay. It's not normal. We are here for the third week, we are having three meetings, the Prime Minister has been here twice, once he has been excused for being at the European Council, which is simply a matter that every Member will understand, and the Minister of Agriculture will not arrive in the Chamber of Deputies once every three hours for interpelatory Thursdays. I'm not even upset anymore. He's just hiding from us. I don't understand it any other way. Then, of course, the interpellations will be left with the news. We're just pretending to have an interpellation. We could not interpel the Minister of Agriculture for many weeks, either orally or in response to written interpelations. I know I'm telling the wrong people that I'm telling those who are present. But if the Prime Minister, who has no doubt more responsibilities than the Minister, tells me that he has more responsibilities, of the three weeks he's here twice and once he's in Brussels at an important meeting, it's not possible for members of his team not to be here every three weeks for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am sorry, Mr President, you cannot leave the vote, but, of course, I, as the petitioner, am opposed to discussing the House Press 338 without the presence of the Minister of Agriculture, it has no meaning. That is why I did not agree with the answer so that I could debate some questions in plenary, ask additional questions and listen to the Minister's answers. Unfortunately, I cannot do that again, so in Parliament's press, 338 please ask for the same procedure as in the House's press, 326. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u27	Thank you. If none of the Members present protest, we will continue to interpel to the present Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař. Is there no objection to such a procedure? It's not. I will therefore ask Mr František Vácha, who will tell us something about the written interpelation he has submitted to Minister Antonín Prachař on the development of work on the preparation of the D3 motorway around České Budějovice. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I have intersected you, and in your reply of 8 August, you assure me that you will personally establish that the preparation of the D3 motorway is not delayed somehow. On 2 October, we learned from the media that at the meeting of the government expert committee to re-examine offers on the contractor of the section of the D3 motorway between Veselí and Bošilec and between Bork and Úspížný, the decision was therefore moved again. It is all the more interesting that on 1 October the Ministry of Transport issued a statement promising the start of 400 km of new roads and motorways by the end of 2016, and in this communication there is a prerequisite for the start of the construction of the sections of the D3 motorway in question in 2014. Of course, we can almost rule that out after the commission's verdict, and that is why I would like to ask, Minister, when the selection committee will meet again. That's the first question. [[10.00 hours]] A coalition was formed in České Budějovice from YES, a movement of Citizens for Budějovice, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL. The local organization ANO has set the goal of providing free use of the D3 motorway around České Budějovice in the electoral programme for municipal elections. This, of course, is not the authority of the city, and the newly formed coalition, of which I am a member, supports this proposal. So I would like to ask what the Ministry of Transport's approach to this initiative will be to bypass the České Budějovice, which will be the motorway, is operated as free of charge. In my interview, I expressed concern about the efforts to revise the D3 motorway route, which means moving to the Lišovský threshold, and I considered it very dangerous. Even the new coalition in České Budějovice promotes the existing route with the fact that it is not against the search or comparative study of other routes, however, under the conditions of construction of the D3 motorway in the current route. I pointed out in my interpellation that moving the route would be a considerable delay, and I dare say that it would essentially stop the construction. There are a number of arguments against the movement of the D3 motorway route. Now I will quote from my previous interpelation: major changes in the route would require a new territorial procedure, which would not even be successfully terminated due to possible objections. Any changes must be accompanied not only by a change in the territorial decision, but in particular by a change in the territorial plan of the principles of territorial development of the South Bohemia Region, as well as the Republican territorial development policy, where D3 is part of the TEN-T multimodal trans-European corridor, so it would have to stabilise this corridor elsewhere. This means that a search study to find a suitable route, to discuss with municipalities through whose cadastral the new corridor would lead, would essentially prevent the construction of communication in any other variant than that chosen. It's just a comment. [[Mr. Vácha turns to Minister Prachař, who sits in the government bench.]] And maybe if you could tell us at what stage is the current choice between the current route, the bypass, and the Fox's threshold. Then I have another question. In response, the Ministry of Transport deals intensively with representatives of the city of České Budějovice. However, according to Mr. Mayor's information, no one has dealt with him yet and has no information that anyone has dealt with the city. In my interview, I asked you for a list and a schedule of meetings with city representatives. I didn't get that. I would like to quote from the interview: I am asking you for an overview of the meetings and conclusions that have taken place in these negotiations. In this context, I also ask for binding information on the further development of the preparation of the D3 motorway in the section Úsilné and Hodijovice. This, of course, applies to the previous question. That means, who, when and with whom is he dealing and dealing? In conclusion, I would like to say that the preparation of D3 in the Central Bohemia Region has frozen to a dead end. I think we all know that. I would like to ask what steps the Ministry of Transport can and does in that section of the Central Bohemia Region. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u29	Thank you, Mr Vách. With a factual remark, Mr Schwarz. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u30	Good morning, Prime Minister, Mr President. I know it's not right, but I have to. Someone's left their glasses with us since this morning. Look who's missing these glasses. [[He holds the glasses in his hand and shows them in all directions.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u31	Goggles were found. Please, who can't see the wrong way to turn them in. Mr. Transport Minister Antonín Prachař is now reporting. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u32	Mr President, as far as the interpellation of the D3 motorway is concerned, you are right that for more than a year now the evaluation committee has been holding a meeting after the competition authority has returned the original commission's decision asking for a remarkably low price. I must say that I am not pleased that this committee is unable to take a decision for one year. I believe that if the Chamber of Deputies succeeds in approving an amendment to the Public Procurement Act by the end of the year, where the members of the Commission will not have to have a degree of confidentiality clearance, so we will have a wider spectrum of people who can responsiblely assess the contractor's offers, so we will also get to a certain acceleration process here. With regard to the issue of the entire D3 motorway, which I have from the Road and Motorway Directorate, I really must say that section 0310 Powerful-Hodějovice, bypassing České Budějovice, here is really continuing on the way. Meeting took place between the Road and Motorway Directorate, Association for the Construction of the D3 motorway, representative of the city, representative of the South Zimola Region of Mr. These negotiations were conducted with a view to not prolonging the time to prepare the construction and the possibility of early start of work, including drawing on the European Union's resources under the operational programme. The last meeting on the highway bypass took place 3. 11. The main exit from this meeting is that the proposed tunnel and one-kilometer route, since a shorter solution would indeed mean a change in municipal territorial plans, i.e. the possibility of a real delay of several years and the impossibility of exhaustion of funds from the OPD. The route will also be dealt with by a territorial decision. This solution, which resulted from these negotiations, will be submitted to the Central Commission of the Ministry of Transport, which should confirm and clearly approve this proposal. I would like to say that we have dealt with the possibility of saving funds in the order of several billions. The negotiations should have been directed to ensure that, even if we find agreement within the existing decisions, if we build a tunnel that is less than one kilometre, we can paradoxically reduce the time limit for putting into service. This was the only goal. Reduce the time limit when we start building, save funds and ensure maximum comfort for citizens on the D3 motorway in the vicinity of České Budějovice. The problem remains the mutual distance of off-level crossroads at the České Budějovice bypass, on which a negative opinion has been given by the Ministry of the Interior several times, when the planned conventions are in such proximity that contradict the valid decrees, and we have a negative opinion by the Ministry of the Interior. The meeting is called on to this issue in the term 13. 11., i.e. representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Interior, Directorate of Roads and Motorways, Regional Office of the South Bohemia Region, City Council of České Budějovice. The way of dealing with off-level crossroads in the surroundings of České Budějovice must follow from this or the next meeting. The documentation for building permits is currently being updated, land purchases are being prepared, the trade elaborate is being prepared, i.e. the cadastral territory concerned, geometric separation plans are further approved, the first part of expert reports are being ordered and the owners of the necessary land will be addressed during the month of November. We expect the construction permit to be issued in the fourth quarter of 2015 and the start of the construction in 2016. For the sake of completeness, I'll give you a written answer. And here I'm going to hand over the planned construction schedule so that we can control it for each other. [[The Minister shows the folder with a coloured table towards Mr Vách.]] [[10.10 hours]] Of course, at this point, I am unable to answer you when the next meeting of the selection committee will be, but I will add it to the written reply. I've already asked the Road and Motorway Directorate for this. As regards the free use of the D3 motorway bypass in the vicinity of České Budějovice. I have received several topics under my office, some good ideas to introduce regional highway signs, the abolition of the tolling of motorway sections, which are city bypasses. I must say, this is not possible. We will not support any exceptions. We have a clearly defined network that is charged. If we'd agreed to any exceptions, we could have a breakdown in the charging of the road network. So at this point, I'm declaring that we're not considering any exemption from the tolling of highway sections. I answered the highway route. I answered the negotiations that he was with. As regards the issue of the D3 motorway of the Central Bohemia Region from Tábor towards Prague, it should be said that they were abolished on the basis of the Supreme Administrative Court Principles of Territorial Development of the Central Bohemia Region. Until these principles are renewed, we cannot continue to prepare for the D3 motorway section of Central Bohemia. This is not a matter of the Ministry of Transport or the Directorate of Roads and Motorways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u33	Thank you, Minister of Transport. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Mr. Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u34	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Anyway, I'd like to ask him, really, if they wouldn't consider charging parts of the highways that are becoming city bypasses. Because the motorway around České Budějovice will become a real bypass of the city. This is where the citizens stop driving and the city will be clogged. However, I feel from the situation around the D3 motorway that the biggest problem is in certain communication between the Ministry and the relevant city authorities, municipal authorities, county authorities, or so. media, maybe. citizens. And he's no longer the Prime Minister, but I wanted to ask if you were considering creating a position - I don't want to call the government attorney, but some person who would be responsible and competent and able to coordinate all the complex mechanisms and would know much more about the construction than very often recalled by the directors of ŘSD or their deputy or other officials at ŘSD. That person would be able to communicate with the public, with the Magistrates, etc. So if you haven't considered this option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u35	Thank you, Mr Vách. Now, with Mr Bendl's point of fact, with a proper application by Mr Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, you mentioned here that D3 is not continuing because the principles of the development of the Central Bohemia Region have been abolished. I don't understand. I think that the principles of the development of the Central Bohemia Region are unrelated to the issue of building permits on construction D3 as such. Which is why I'd like to know if you wouldn't explain it, because it's just not part of the building process. The Central Bohemia Region, as far as I know, has an approved zoning plan, so there is no reason not to continue on the construction site. That's why I'm asking for an explanation as to how it is. Who canceled this plan and when. Although I don't think it has anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u37	I thank Mr Bendl. Before I give the floor to Mr Tejc - there were two filled out but unsigned tickets to the oral interview application for an action plan to promote economic growth. Someone threw them away and didn't sign them, they're here with me. prosit, now, Mr. Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my point or request to the Minister is not related to the motorway in southern Bohemia. But it has to do with what has been mentioned, and that is the question of charging some sections. It's not a matter that Minister Prachař would cause. It was one of his predecessors who decided that part of the Brno motorway, which was never charged because it directly touched Brno and functions basically as a bypass of the city, was charged, which in my opinion, and as I know the situation, did not lead to a significant increase in choice for road signs, nor did the number of vehicles that would be headed towards Brno. Unfortunately, however, the incidence of these vehicles has increased significantly where there are no charges, directly in the various urban areas, and it is particularly difficult for citizens to do so in the traffic peaks. That's why I'm just mentioning that it's not the only problem. I understand that the Ministry will, of course, try to keep the exceptions as low as possible. On the other hand, I think it would be worth discussing in some perspective, for example. in the Economic Committee, how the changes have been assessed, whether they have actually contributed to the fact that the passability is higher, that the selection of marks is higher, or, on the contrary, that means specific complications. First of all, we should be dealing with people who live in individual places. In this sense, they should not pay for the fact that others who do not want to purchase a road sign then drive directly under their windows. So that's my request. It's not something that needs to be resolved during this day. I will therefore allow myself to describe the situation in writing to the Minister and ask him, if necessary, for a written response so as not to burden today's debate, which was mainly devoted to the completion of D3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u39	Thank you, Mr Tejc. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Minister Prachař. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u40	Mr President, by the fact that the debate has not yet ended, as I said in my previous speech, I asked the Directorate of Roads and Motorways to give me information on how the next meeting of the evaluation committee will take place at D3. So I'm just going to have to add: 4. 11. the candidates received the final questions of the Commission. They were given a period of 10 working days to respond, i.e. 14. 11. Today, Skanska requested an extension of the deadline for another 7 days. The SDS sent them their consent to the extension of the deadline and the Commission will meet at the end of November. It can be assumed that in December we would like to announce the winner of this tender for the continuation of the construction of the D3 motorway. So much for a refill. On the subject of Mr Vácha, through you, Mr President. I think we all remember from history what happened to the role of representatives for the construction of sub-sections. The infamous D47, who also had her agent for construction. We're not leaning towards such a solution. I think we have a race director at the Road and Motorway Directorate in 13 races, who have their director of the construction section. These are the people who should be clearly responsible for construction and communication with both local and regional authorities. I can't imagine going back to such troubles as the D47 motorway, where he was a construction agent. The consequences of such decision-making will be addressed by a commission appointed by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u41	Thank you, Minister Prachař. Mr. Vácha will continue to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u42	I would like to thank Mr Tejc very much for his agreement with mine. Of course, D3 will not be built for several years, i.e. We don't have to deal with charging today or tomorrow. But I'm sure I agree that we should deal with this. And I would really ask the Ministry to deal with this matter. [[10.20 hours]] As far as the government attorney is concerned. When I said that, I was very determined whether to say the word government agent, and yet I am convinced that if not in the Ministry, at least people should be appointed to the ŘSD, or a person who would be responsible for D3 and had it directly in the work force. Because, as I was saying, one of the biggest problems I see in communication, really in communication between the public, the magistrates, the municipal authorities and the ŘSD, or the Ministry. But, of course, this person will not have powers towards ministries, and that person needs those powers not only to the Ministry of Transport, but also to the Ministry of Finance. That means you'll still have to have a man named at the Ministry or should be appointed and responsible for preparing the D3 motorway or any other highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u43	Thank you, Mr Vách. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Mr. Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u44	I was here trying to ask the Minister of Transport a question, so I would ask him to answer me as to why he did not actually stop at D3 in the Central Bohemia Region and what is the area development plan or what he called it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u45	I thank Mr Bendl. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Minister Prachař. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u46	I would like to reply to the honourable Member through you, Mr President. As far as D3 is concerned in the Central Bohemia Region from Tábor towards Prague, the principles of territorial development of the region have indeed been abolished, i.e. the preparation of further progress at all. If the Principles of Territorial Development of the Central Bohemia Region are not renewed, it cannot continue. Here we are waiting for the Central Bohemia Region, the council will give us clear proof that it has renewed principles of territorial development of the region. In two regions in the Czech Republic we do not have the principles of territorial development of the region - Central Bohemia Region and South Moravian Region. We cannot continue to prepare the construction of transport infrastructure in these two regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u47	Thank you, Minister Prachař. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one else is reporting, then I am ending the debate and I am asking Mr František Vácha, as proposed by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Messenger. My brother's in the middle of a conversation.]] Mr Vácha, please, I ask you what resolution you are proposing to the Chamber of Deputies for this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u48	I'm happy with the answers. [[Fun.]] Satisfaction, yes. That's all I need. [[Fun and applause.]] If you want a resolution, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u49	I suppose I'm not going to vote on your satisfaction. I'd hate to ruin it for you, the satisfaction. [[Laughter.]] So the Member does not propose any resolution by the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's the first time I've heard of someone who's satisfied with the Minister's answer. And congratulations to Minister Prachař for doing so. That would exhaust the interpelation, but we still have two that haven't been interrupted, and we should stop them. But we can't interrupt them, because that is what the vote is about, and only 52 of us are here. So now I'm interrupting the House meeting by 10.45, when we'll meet again and try to re-vote the interruption of the two interventions. At the same time, I beg the President of the MPs, because we have developed an unpleasant situation here with the registration verifiers in order to try to resolve it. I'm begging them for a meeting. Thank you and interrupt the House meeting by 10.45.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u50	My dear fellow Members, we should vote on the interruption of Mrs Pěnčíková and Mr Stanjura's interpelation. I'll check you all out just in case, and please sign up with your voting cards. [[He's waiting for the MPs coming from the lobby for a while.]] Since the quorum has now not reached the necessary 67 Members present, I am interrupting the meeting within 11 hours, when we will try again to vote on these and other points. Thank you and interrupt the meeting until 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u51	Good morning, dear colleagues. Before we continue our negotiations, I'll read the other apologies that have been added. Mr Václav Zemek apologizes from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting today from 9am to 6pm. Mr Stanislav Mackovík apologizes for working reasons, and Mr Rom Kostřica apologizes today from 9am to 13pm. Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes today for working Maxová, and Mr Michal Kučera apologises today between 12pm and 19pm for personal reasons. We should continue by interrupting two written interventions to Minister Marian Jurečka - Mrs Pěnčíková and Mr Stanjura. So I will re-sign you out and check that there is a sufficient number of Members present. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I declare this vote confusing. I pushed the wrong button. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. Unfortunately, the compromise has not been reached, so we cannot vote on these interruptions by intercession. Mr Kalousek, the Prime Minister, has now applied for the floor first. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that this is pointless. So that we, who are here, always meet here every 15 minutes and say that there are few of us. I think we all have more important things to do. I'm asking for two hours' break for the TOP 09 meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u53	Now, Mr President, you haven't made it any easier for me. On the contrary. In view of the fact that Members Adolf Beznoska and Jaroslav Klaška who have been elected verifiers of the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies are excused, new verifiers must be voted in order to draw applications for oral interviews at 11.30. I would suggest that we designate Ms Marta Semelová, who is present, and Mr Pavel Čihák, who is also present, as the verifier for the drawing of oral interviews. However, we have not achieved the necessary concession, so we cannot vote because of the insufficient number of Members and the pause, and therefore cannot have oral intervention this afternoon. Mr. Prime Minister's report came in. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u54	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I had a subjective feeling that I applied before Mr Kalousek, but I respect your right. You are in charge of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u55	I'm sorry, Prime Minister. Mr Kalousek reported to me before the meeting was held before I came here. I'm sorry. with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u56	Perhaps before you were elected, Mr Vice-President, he applied for the floor. It's quite possible that it happened. But I'm not questioning it. I just took the liberty of commenting. Maybe one more comment. I noticed because I've been here since 9 a.m. this morning at the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies, so I noticed that from time to time you read the long list of Members and Members apologized from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I know that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are forcing you to do this, but I would suggest such a change. Perhaps it would be worth reading the list of Members and Members present, especially on Thursdays, when there is such great interest in interpelation. I think it would be a kind of appreciation for those who come to the Chamber of Deputies meeting, that the names of those sitting here would be positively heard here, and we really would not have to talk about those who are not here in this context. That's just a little point. But why did I want to get out? First of all, I would like to thank those Members who came to the Chamber of Deputies meeting today. I know there's a permanent discussion going on here about the need for the Prime Minister to be here when there's an interpelation. I want to confirm that I'm here today. I'm even counting on being here at the Chamber of Deputies from 2:30. I have reserved my programme and, of course, I am prepared to respond to the interpellation of Members and Members to the Prime Minister. I think if the Prime Minister doesn't have any other important agenda, he should try to get him here for the interpelations. I don't think we need to argue about this in the future. I also want to make it clear that if I do not have the responsibilities of the European Council, where the Prime Minister is not representative, I will participate in these negotiations. But why I volunteered is another thing that's a little different from what we talked about here today. I noticed that yesterday evening a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was interrupted, at the request of the opposition clubs which agreed, three or four opposition clubs composed their breaks at the meetings of the clubs in such a way as to prevent the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies after 19 o'clock. I don't think it's quite good, because we're really devaluation the question of a break at the club. It's just that in a standard meeting where there are standard points, we interrupt the meeting in such a way that we could discuss a number of things yesterday, the House was a quorum, it wasn't a problem like here today, and there was a whole series of program points. Among other things, the interruption of the Chamber of Deputies meeting occurred just before the House press number 277 was due. honourable Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a rather serious press which I think the Chamber of Deputies should discuss. I do not understand why this press has been on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies for three months without being negotiated at first reading without the House of Deputies dealing with it. I am saying this because it is not a complex bill. It's one side. It's one side of the bill. He's got two articles. Article 1 and Article 2 which defines effectiveness. I would like to draw attention, in all seriousness, as Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies, to the consequences of this bill and to the meaning of the bill submitted by the Government. For the representatives of the legislative, executive and judicial powers referred to in Section 1 (b). (a) to (f) was Act No 425/2010 Coll. the salary base with effect from 1 January 2011 laid down by a special provision in the reduced amount. It is therefore a salary base for constitutional officials, including the salaries of Members and Senators. This period shall expire on 31 December 2014 for the determination of salaries and certain reimbursements of expenses incurred by officials under the special salary base fixed in 2010. If, honourable Members, no action is taken, then the procedure referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article would automatically be renewed as from 1 January 2015. 3 of the relevant law and the salary base would jump to 2.75 times the average nominal monthly wage of natural persons in the non-business sphere achieved according to published data of the Czech Statistical Office for 2013. This would result in an increase of 26 per cent in the salary base for representatives with effect from 1 January 2015. The procedure under this general principle would naturally require additional expenditure from the State budget in 2015. [[11.10 hours]] At its 22nd meeting held on 28 May this year in its resolution on the proposal for medium-term expenditure frameworks, the Government has ordered the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to process and submit a proposal to the Government by 30 June 2014 to amend the Salary Act, which will ensure an increase in the staff base of representatives from 1 January 2015 compared to its current level, but this increase will not exceed one percentage point. The Government submitted to the Chamber of Deputies an appropriate bill on 31 July this year. On 31 July of this year, the government submitted a proposal which means that it will be approved that there will be no one-off increase in the salaries of constitutional officials by 26% from 1 January next year. Three months this bill is waiting for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, and I would really like to ask Members to address this bill. I must say that I was very surprised that yesterday the opposition clubs asked for a break for four meetings of these opposition clubs just before it was due to discuss this bill at first reading, and that just before that, the point which had just preceded this point was interrupted, that is to say that it was, in principle, obstructed by the negotiation of this payroll law, which should prevent the salaries of constitutional officials from increasing by 26 per cent jumping from 1 January next year. I firmly believe that this situation will not happen again and that the Chamber of Deputies will approach this issue responsibly, because I do not know how the government would explain to the citizens of the Czech Republic that while public sector employees' salaries have increased by 3,5 percent, the salaries of constitutional officials, including Members and Senators, should be increased by 26%. It is still possible to prevent this, honourable Members, two months remain until the end of this calendar year and this proposal can be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Given that this is really only one side of the text, given that this proposal is already here in the Chamber of Deputies for three months, and all Members have been able to get to know it very closely, I believe that, in the first reading, the deadline for its discussion should be shortened to 15 days, and of course, I will put forward such a proposal in the context of this law. Given the low participation today, I will not propose the inclusion of this bill at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. However, since the Chamber of Deputies meeting is also going on tomorrow, I would like to inform you that tomorrow, in the course of the discussion of the programme, I will propose that this item be placed at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as a fixed item, and I firmly believe that the Chamber of Deputies will discuss this item and that tomorrow's meeting will not be destroyed again by the so-called - and I must say, the so-called - recesses for the meeting of the House of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the question of the salaries of constitutional officials is sensitive. The solution chosen by the previous government, which reduced the salaries of constitutional officials and taxed the compensation, was largely populist, but, in my view, it is not possible to respond to the situation created by the fact that, although the government has tabled a bill to prevent a jumping increase in the salaries of constitutional officials by 26% from 1 January next year, Members and Members will stick their heads in the sand in the Chamber of Deputies, they will pretend that there is really no such proposal, their inactivity will not allow it to be dealt with by the end of this year, and thus there will be a self-indulgent increase in the salaries of constitutional officials, with which the draft law on the state budget will not even count next year. The situation will be contrary to the State Budget Act and these expenditures also do not include the proposed budgets of the Chamber of Deputies and the proposed budget of the Senate. I believe that such a course of discussion is not responsible and it is not dignified for this Chamber of Deputies to behave in such a way as to hide from voters. So allow me, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to call on you not to play hide-and-seek with voters in order to allow this bill to be discussed at first reading. I would like to call on you to allow for a shortening of the time limit for its discussion in the House of Deputies and for the Chamber of Deputies to pass on this proposal. The Chamber of Deputies can approve it, the Chamber of Deputies can change it, the Chamber of Deputies can reject it, but it will be an open, honest game with voters, where supporters and opponents of this proposal can openly argue in this place for its acceptance or for its acceptance. What is happening here, and what threatens to happen here, is particularly unfair to voters and especially to citizens, and it is unfair to the government that has brought this bill to the Chamber of Deputies in time. I repeat the date that is important: on 31 July this amendment was tabled on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and since then, although it has been included in the agenda, it has been constantly waiting for its discussion, and just before this item was discussed, it was again prevented from having the first reading on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm sorry I'm talking right now. I am not pleased to speak to the Chamber of Deputies, who is not even able to agree to the approval of the verifiers for the interpelation. I regret that the interpelations will not be this afternoon because, of course, I have prepared for them to be here as Prime Minister, but I felt it important to alert the Chamber of Deputies at a time when there is still time when we do not have to convene extraordinary meetings, where we do not have to change back the rules that we have adopted, two months to discuss this matter in the Chamber of Deputies in a responsible manner. The effects may be very serious, and if there is a jumping increase in the salaries of constitutional officials, I am convinced that this will be a reason for further attacks on the functioning of the parliamentary system, this will be a reason for further attacks on political parties, it will be a reason for further depreciation of the work of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, precisely given that MEPs and senators have failed to deal with such a sensitive issue as the question of the level of salary and the threat of its jumping increase from 1 January next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-06-ps2013-019-10-001-132.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. Even though I'm being helpful, there was a request for a break that I have to respect. As the Prime Minister has already indicated here, the next item we should be dealing with should be the drawing of oral interviews and the necessary amendment of the verifiers to the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, even now, we are not capable of a quorum. I have to interrupt the meeting. Given the pause, I would interrupt until 13:17 pm, which I cannot, because there are interpelations that cannot be drawn, so I will end today's meeting of the House of Deputies and interrupt the 19th session of the Chamber of Deputies until 30 minutes after the end of the 21st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I remind the Members and Members that tomorrow we will continue at 9 a.m. in the morning of the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It will be followed by the 21st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I wish you a good day and finish today's meeting day of the Chamber of Deputies.
