ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u1	14. Proposal by Members of Helena Langšádlová, Jan Chvojka, Jan Bartošek, Daniel Korte, Jiří Skalický, Michal Kučera, Herbert Pavera, Markéta Adamová, Nina Nováková, Gabriela Pecková and Jan Farský to issue a law amending Act No. 418/2011 Coll., on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them /German press 105/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 105/1. I therefore ask that the proposal put forward by Mr Helena Langšádlová, the appellants' representative. [[She's excused.]] So instead of Helena Langšádlová, we have an alternate. I beg you, Mr. Ambassador, let's read the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly explain and explain what the amendment to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons is about. It's House Press No. 105 and this amendment contains that the criminal act amendment to usury should be introduced into the law on criminal liability of legal persons. This criminal responsibility, this fact, is lacking in the law and, of course, the crime of usury is not only committed by natural persons, but, as we know from various media, from the media, and especially legal persons - various non-bank companies and other legal entities. I'd just like to read briefly what a crime of weirdness is. The act is committed by a person who abuses someone's intellectual weakness, distress, inexperience, frivolity, or upset by someone who gives himself or others or promises a performance whose value is to the value of the mutual performance in a gross proportion, or who exercises such claim or intends to apply it to himself. So in conclusion, the point is that this crime is in that law on criminal liability of legal persons, it is a criminal offence which, in our opinion, can also be committed by legal persons outside the natural person, unfortunately, there is not a penalty in today's law that could be abolished or a fine could be imposed. So please release this press to the second reading of the Constitutional Legal Committee, where we can continue to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u3	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Jaroslav Borka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, colleagues, Mr Chvojka introduced us to the amendment or to the addition of Act No. 418/2000 Sb. This law came into force only on 1 January 2012. It is therefore another of the rather extensive list of laws that Members are adapting, supplementing or often changing from the grunt. I will use my speech to stress that I believe that it is time to consider a system that will favour quality at the expense of quantity. As has already been said in some speeches in this House. At the same time, please consider this statement of mine as a challenge to the government of Bohuslav Sobotka in the development of government bills and also as a call to individual membership clubs and, of course, to our Members. The proposed parliamentary amendment extends the law to legal persons for committing the crime of usury, as we have heard. This conclusion can be agreed with because the unfair practices of some non-banking entities, which are legal entities, significantly threaten not only socially disadvantaged and excluded groups of residents, but also seniors and some middle-income members of the population, as rightly named by the government in its Opinion 105/1. [[16.20 hours]] The press under discussion is also based on print No. 915 from the previous term of office. However, in its opinion on this matter, the Government repeatedly points out that the proposed addition to the list of offences which a legal person may commit is a derogation from the current concept of the regulation of the law on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them. At the same time, it recommends to consider substantially extending the scope of criminal offences which a legal person may commit, including the extension of the weird crime. Since the Government has included a proposal to amend Act No. 418/2001 Coll., on the criminal liability of and proceedings against legal persons, I will propose to reject the proposed parliamentary proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u5	Thank you. I have first of all to discuss with the factual remark submitted by Mr Polčák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I will not try to be as steep as the rapporteur to some extent, although I must admit that I must agree with the fundamental part of the argument put forward by the rapporteur here from a technical point of view. Perhaps it is not entirely possible for us to simply open the criminal code and the law on criminal liability of legal persons several times. That is the thing, I would say, of a very close discretion and it is a bit of a wonder, if you look at the fact that this law is also being opened here in the Houses of the Press 45, which is, of course, a press that is preceded by the number 105, so it is clear that if we are already discussing in this Houses of the press the extension of the facts to the criminality of legal persons, perhaps the petitioners might consider that it is not the aim of supplying the Collection of Laws by other and other completely partial amendments to the law such a fundamental one that governs the criminality of both legal and physical persons. I would just like to think about whether the principle of conservative policy really is discretion, a certain moderation in the very intervention in the criminal policy of the state. So the rapporteur's position, however steep it may be, I do not want to support him directly, but it might be appropriate to consider the interplay between the two standards that have been put forward in this case, because if both of them are approved, they are partial other and other amendments to the law on criminal liability of legal entities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u7	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Válková is enrolled in the debate. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will actually just connect, I will follow up on what has been said here by both previous speakers. I appeal to all of us to heed the principles of rational criminal policy, which should definitely not be applied in the interests of a number of different amendments to the codes, and criminal law is one of the core codes. We know that the criminal code is not only a basic code of conduct, it is complemented by special standards such as the law on criminal liability of legal persons, which refers to the criminal code, but has certain special provisions and one of those special provisions includes the list of offences for which legal persons can be brought before a criminal court. We are now seeing that the list is increasingly being criticized, and I also join the criticism, but here I would be very prudent and distinguish between cases where we need to increase the criminality due to the implementation of the European directives, which, under the threat of sanctions, require us to supplement the list of certain new facts, such as now in the area of preventing child abuse for pornography purposes, two new facts are contained in the said press 45, and here I think that this is appropriate, because there is no other way. We must implement what the European directives impose on us. As for usury, I certainly do not wish to question the meaningfulness of its inclusion in that provision, which contains a list of offences for which legal persons can be brought before a criminal court, or to draw criminal responsibility on the one hand. On the other hand, such factual elements that are missing there, although they are not at the forefront of public or political attention now, e.g. Drug offenses, it's a lot more than that. But it may be that the specific case that will take place in two in three months will attract our attention and we will reopen this law and again make some parliamentary proposals. It is true what has been said here, I want to confirm at this point for the Justice Department that we are preparing, already in these days we are preparing a proposal that should be comprehensive, within which we want to turn the system of the application of criminal liability of legal persons so that, in future, it is no longer necessary to amend the scope of criminal offences whenever, in practice, the need for a criminal offence in this way appears to be attributed to a legal person when, in practice, we find that it is appropriate for criminal repression to be applied here, that there is not enough repression, for example, in the area of administrative law or some civil law sanctions. In particular, it should mean that, and I have already reminded it here in another context that we would like to allow a more fundamental and complex amendment to be made, so that legal persons are responsible for all the offences mentioned in the Code of Criminal Procedure, except those that will be taxatically introduced there. It's the opposite now. They can only be brought to trial for the crimes mentioned there. So we would follow a path that, in my view, is safer to prevent the unplanned escalation of parliamentary proposals to supplement the list of offences for which legal persons can be put before criminal courts. So, summarized and underlined, I am very much in favour of the Justice Department so that we can hold out a little longer, so that we do not support this parliamentary proposal and wait for the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Justice, which will, of course, go into a proper review procedure, take into account the views of other ministries and academic institutions, and which I hope will result in a solution that will last one term. It may be too ambitious a target, but it will certainly prevent us from adding additional property crimes or drug offences next time, and to bring about an absolute unplanned legislative one, in this sense it can be said dramatically, chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Pospíšil is also entered into the debate. So, Mr. Ambassador, let's go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u10	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments on this proposal, for the reason that I was the law maker who is being debated here today and who was approved in 2011. It is necessary to say a few sentences here, so that the debate is complex, so that it does not come out that the bill is in principle poor quality and that it needs to be corrected at the moment, virtually. repair in a certain way. This is, of course, possible, but it is a question of political decision, it is not about the mistakes of this law. [[16.30 hours]] It should be noted that the criminal liability of legal entities has been brought into the Czech legal system as something completely new, something that has long contradicted the tradition of, say, the Czech criminal law based on the criminal liability of a natural person. And before the law was adopted, a long discussion was held about whether such legislation in the Czech Republic should be at all, or whether legal persons should be punished more in the context of administrative punishment and, where appropriate, should be amended. And I have to say here correctly that when this was discussed both at the Legislative Council of the Government and among experts, there was no clear view of it. Finally, the regulation was adopted, especially for political reasons, when the European Union demanded such a bill for us and has already initiated proceedings with the Czech Republic. And that list of crimes that were so indirectly criticized here was essentially given by what the European Union described in its sources of law as criminal offences, for which a legal person should also be held liable. So right here to say that the list has no other logic than that what the European Union wanted us to do was put into that law. It doesn't mean that the previous government wouldn't think that, for example, Odds could also not be modified in this way. I would ask very much as a person who has been involved in many expert and political debates over this bill before, for example, we move forward to the fact that this law will be comprehensively amended in order to really assess how the law works in practice. Because it is necessary to look at some other countries in Central and Eastern Europe that have also adopted such legislation, and these states show that this legislation does not always work in practice. An example is Hungary, which also adopted similar legislation and where there were only two cases in which this matter was dealt with after its effectiveness in the first two years. [[Noise in the hall.]] So I, I point out, am not opposed to this kind of legislation. I support this, where appropriate, to widen the scope of criminal offences. But I ask too much that we do not make special-purpose amendments here just so that we look beautiful in the media, how we correct bad laws here and tighten up, so much I ask the Ministry to really make an analysis of how the current legislation works, where it may be its failures. And then let the government and then the parliament decide whether the criminal record should be extended or whether it is sufficient. This is important to say here, because the bill was conducted in its time with only one effort - to eliminate the contradiction between Czech legislation and European Union legislation. And the proposal fulfilled this task. Now it needs to be evaluated and figure out how to proceed. In principle, I support the bill itself. I do not think it is necessary to reject it, although I agree with what my colleague Polčák here has said - it is not appropriate to permanently amend the criminal law, especially when the law is already open here. On the other hand, I would encourage that law to be released for further reading, precisely given that in the constitutional law committee already one amendment to the Law on the Criminal Liability of Legal Persons is that this amendment should be introduced into the constitutional law committee and that, if necessary, political debate on how to change such a law comprehensively in the future should be held. Because the regulation of criminal liability of legal entities, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a technical issue. It's a purely political issue. And the political representation should say what form and form legal persons are to be -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u11	I'm sorry, colleague. I ask you, honourable Members, to lower your noise levels and listen to what is being said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u12	Thank you very much. I'll be done. I just want to say that this is a purely political issue and a debate should be held on the constitutionally-legal committee about how the criminal sanctions of legal persons should be adjusted in the future and, where appropriate, what changes are to be made. However, given that this is a completely new matter, I call for an evaluation and a statement to be made on how effective this legislation is and what it brings in practice, how many cases, if any, have already been affected under this legislation and with what results. I think this is a very important phenomenon before possible further modifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have one point of fact here. I've had Mr. Stanjure registered here... No? [[He doesn't want to.]] So, in that case, we have a priority right here for Minister Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u14	I would like to assure Mr President Pospíšil that, of course, the comprehensive proposal will result from the evaluation. And we're already carrying out the evaluation. We are also, of course, in contact with people who then processed the draft new law on criminal liability of legal persons. I am very familiar with the development and the fact that one day the proposal failed and that then the so-called choice was made. a minimalist version that allowed enough votes to be found in the Chamber of Deputies to adopt this new legislation. For example, I personally opposed her acceptance, but I was not a Member at the time. As an expert. I had this traditional conservative look. But times are changing, and over time even the more conservative of us now see that the law is meaningful, but paradoxically there are some facts missing. That's why we want to make it more comprehensive. And there's logically more of these complex solutions. We also want to do a specialist seminar for this. On the other hand, the time we have is limited. And you yourself, as an opposition, would have criticized us very soon if we had not submitted a better proposal for an adjustment than it is at present, and which, according to the number of cases that have so far been set aside, shows that there are probably no criminal offences that should be there. So I propose to reject the proposal, because unlike the House press, 45 - once again I stress - where European legislation places us under the threat of sanctions to accept and include some of the facts in this particular criminal law, virtually. special criminal standards, weirdness is not one of such facts and neither are other property crimes that are not there and should be there. Not even those drug offences mentioned by me. So we don't have the necessity here. And then we should open it completely comprehensively and not just above odds. Then we'd have to connect it, and I think that's with another addition to other crimes. And I think it would be precisely what I and others have warned about that we would have included some crimes without prior discussion and thorough debate, without changing the mechanism, the system of assessment that should be the opposite. I think that Mr Pospíšil also remembers that one of the variations, which was considered too bold and revolutionary for our system at the time, was that legal persons would be responsible for all crimes except those where their nature does not allow them to commit them, which are excluded from the nature of their case. We wouldn't have gone this revolutionary way, or we wouldn't have suggested it. But I mean, if there's an exhaustive list of those they can't commit, and other crimes can make it possible. I agree with her that this is a very political issue and that there will certainly be a need for that expert debate. But I am certainly not in favour of the addition of pears to apples, and that would probably be in case weirdness is taken as one special crime, which everyone is now giving media attention to, and would join in the facts that we have to anchor in that standard, because European legislation requires us to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u15	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I have two note cards here. At 5 p.m. today, Mr Gabal and Minister Jurečka apologize for reasons of work. Furthermore, we have two factual points. The first, with a factual point, is Mr Stanjura of the ODS. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u16	Thank you for the floor. The law is two years and two or three months. And I'd like to ask the secretary to get some numbers. I think it needs to be evaluated first. Even so, I consider this to be a relatively short period of time, so that it may be terminated if any decisions have been taken by the court whether they are already final or not. So that we don't make decisions under the impression of either an article or an impression. [[16.40 hours]] For the record, I'm not saying it's like this, but for us, it's going to be very important at the moment, whether it's this or another bill, we're going to be debating a possible amendment to this law, so that we know what experience we're based on, what worked and what didn't work. [[unintelligible]] What turns out to be written there, but no such crime was prosecuted when I put it that way. And then we can just postpone the debate and get back to it in four in five years when there will be more experience in terms of more cases. Otherwise, I join in being quite conservative about it so that we don't change it every six months just because it's like that, and we politicians say it very often when we get a question about what you're saying, so very often, and I'm going to propose a law in this area or I'm going to propose an amendment to the law. [[unintelligible]] And it doesn't have to be that way. Perhaps it would be enough to use existing laws and existing means at our disposal. But I'd ask that we don't have to interpel, some analysis. If you want to discuss it with the D.A.P. and then at the clubs to get the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another point of fact is that of Mr Polčák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My colleague Stanjura's performance made my performance a little more difficult. I want to be fair to the petitioners who I think were led by good intentions, and it's a constant effort. The only reason I didn't propose rejecting that standard is because they have already submitted this press in the previous parliamentary term. And if even the present representative of the petitioners here, I don't want to say that he has publicly promised, but if he had declared that there would have been an attempt to intersect those two prints 45 and this 105, so that we would not really redo the law twice in a short time sequence, then there is only one question left to answer. If we really wish, it is indeed a legally political decision whether we wish that the crime of usury should also be a criminal offence for which legal persons will also be judged. Personally, I'm responsible for myself, aren't I? And what Mr Stanjura called for is to some extent unnecessary. This analysis will not reveal to us how many people have, of course, been punished in principle for this crime, which has not yet been introduced, and maybe we could talk about the criminal acts that have been introduced and which could report some statistics. But that's essentially irrelevant. This is about a legally political decision whether this crime will also be criminal according to an assessment of the criminality of legal persons. And I personally see the possibility here that we should, of course, approach the Code in moderation, I agree with all my previous speakers, and I have also spoken about it here. But I guess it's clear that different non-bank institutions approach usury very flexibly and it might be appropriate to respond very promptly. We can't really afford to wait a few years. After all, the debate about usury was already here in the original law, and for incomprehensible reasons it was not added there. Nor was there a number of other provisions, which came there only on the basis of the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, I have no one here, so Mrs Marie Benešová is enrolled in the proper debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u20	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, Government and colleagues, with regard to this proposal, I initially welcomed the inclusion of usury in the list of criminal offences in this regard, that is to say, Act No. 418/2011 Sb., to the list set out in Section 7. But gradually, as I think about it, I found a whole series of other crimes that would be worth putting in that list. I've been missing the crime of embezzlement from the start, I've been missing other crimes, misuse of information and status in trade, violation of the obligation to manage foreign property, and this is how we might continue to think. At the same time, we also dealt with the interpretation problems of § 8 in the law firm. So the sum of the sum, as I'm listening to it here, I originally wanted to encourage usury to be included in the list of these provisions. But I would almost like to conclude that the offer made by the Minister of Justice for some kind of analysis, as this law has proven in practice, and that it needs to be supplemented comprehensively, is more meaningful in this respect. And I'm probably going to lean in to support the future government proposal that he's offering here, with the fact that he's going to take out all these doubts that we have and complete what's needed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u21	Thank you, Madame. I want to ask if anyone is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, in which case I conclude the general debate and ask the appellant whether he wants to take the final floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank you for the debate and, in principle, I have understood that the will to address the issue, which means that legal persons can also be punished for the crime of usury, there is. I don't think there's anyone who would question the fact that weirdness shouldn't be punished. Today, it is so that they simply cannot be punished for the usury of a legal person, and we all know that most of the loan-taking events are carried out by legal entities, various non-bank companies and other dubious entities. So here's the thing that just isn't solved. And now there's a two-way solution. The first is, if this law is not supported by second reading today, and I, of course, if this law fails to proceed to the committee for second reading, can publicly promise my colleague Polčák here that I will try to load the exact same amendment into this already open press number 45, i.e. I will continue to try to make sure that the crime of usury is listed in the law on criminal liability of legal persons. That would be a solution that would be quick. Because the problem is, and it's a big social problem. The second way, as has already been said, is to evaluate the entire law on criminal liability of legal persons in some way comprehensively, to assess what crimes are missing there, or to make some general clause, etc. etc. I intercede for the quicker way, because I still remember this as an opposition MP, and I assume that the government for which I am a Member will deal with this matter differently. But I will admit that in that new term of office, when the Minister said he liked a proposal, but that the law will be dealt with comprehensively, otherwise, and I don't mean any harm, and that's why I don't support it, so then there's, like, two years waiting for that comprehensive proposal. So that's a question of how we decide. If this thing, the fact that weirdness will also be criminal for legal persons, we want to deal quickly, and I think it could be essentially effective if it went through like this in the form of an amendment to press 45, that it could be effective from 1. 1st of next year. Or if we want it slowly, because of course some complex assessment, analysis, etc., etc. They last very long, then the law goes into interdepartmental proceedings etc. So it's up to each of you. I'll ask for the first approach. I will ask that we now make usury criminal for legal persons and not wait for a comprehensive proposal, which can really come in a year, a year and a half. Then he will go into the commentary proceedings and the loan will still be impunity for legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u23	Thank you. I want to ask the rapporteur if he will take the closing statement. He will, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, several suggestions have been made. Very constructive, I think. I just want to say one thing very briefly. I did not want to question Members' efforts to include or bring into the law what is currently lacking there. On the other hand, I think that we are currently offering the opportunity to make a system that can survive not one political setup, but more. This means that I am inclined to make a comprehensive proposal, and I propose rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-008-014.u25	Thank you. We have a motion to reject the proposal. In that case, we will vote. Please, we'll all come forward again, I'll check you out. I now put it to a vote. Who agrees with the rejection of the proposal? All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. [[Voices from the O.R. that vote doesn't work.]] In that case, I declare the vote confusing. I'll ask for your registration again. Let's see if it works this time. Looks like our numbers are stable. In that case, I shall put my vote to the vote again. Who is in favour of rejecting the motion? Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. [[Voices from the O.R. You didn't start.]] Thank you. You learn your whole life. Initiating vote. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm ending the vote on order number 37. The proposal was adopted, which means that the bill was rejected. Thank you. The next item is
