ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u1	56. Proposal to set up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies to investigate the way in which the Opencard case was investigated A group of 110 Members and Members submitted a proposal to set up this commission, and this group also prepared a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which is part of document 350. I ask the representative of this group of Mr Stanislav Huml to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u2	I wish you a good day and I bring you a proposal to set up an investigation committee for the Opencard case, which you know from the press. You know, there was more than a billion invested for the card. You know, one of the people who announced the case at the very beginning came to the Security Committee. [[The speaker is misunderstood for the noise in the hall.]] His name's Chytil. He was a man who...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u3	Ambassador, I'm sorry. We're discussing a pretty serious matter. Please keep it quiet in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u4	Thank you, too. He was the man the policeman promised to be a secret witness. In its essence, it turned out that the fact that he was a secret witness, everyone forgot about it, and he ended up on the pavement because he got fired from the Magistrate. Finally, the judge, who eventually judged him himself, spoke of the case a little. And even the judge himself said that someone else was supposed to stand before the court. That the main culprit is definitely not him. I think the committee of inquiry should examine the entire ties. We know several police officers took turns investigating the case. I even have information that it was over ten. We know that there are instructions from prosecutors who are not very kosher. We have information from Mr. Caught that he himself turned to the General Inspection of the Security Corps with some incentive. I'm a member of the GIBS committee, we asked about it, they investigated the GIBS case, but not on Mr. Chytil's initiative, so here I see the contradiction again. I think the committee of inquiry may have better options than the Minister of Justice himself, who can't ask prosecutors, but the committee of inquiry could do it. In short, it's not about deciding who's guilty, in any way, but it's about seeing if the laws we approve here, the police, the D.A., are working properly. If they're able to conceal the witness, if they're able to evaluate the evidence. Because once again, Mr. Chytil on the Security Committee claiming that he was handing over evidence to the police, computers, with a disk. Eventually, it came back erased, and the evidence wasn't used. That's all the information you can't check unless you set up a committee. I'm giving it as one-sided information, I'm not certified from the other side, but I think it would be worth it to set up the committee and see how it works in the police and justice community today. So you have a resolution like the House press of 350. It's very simple. Under Article 30 of the Constitution on Rules of Procedure and Article 48 of the Rules of Procedure, we could appoint an investigative committee to investigate the way in which the Opencard case was investigated. That's the only thing that shouldn't go anywhere else. I wrote the proposal, so now we can make a difference in the discussion, no problem. The investigation committee will examine the activities of all law enforcement agencies and control bodies, which is deliberately widely understood, because the control authorities have police, the supervisory authorities have justice, and if there's anything out there, then let the commission take a look at it. And I set a deadline of six months from the date of the commission of inquiry. I think that then you could possibly even prolongate, but six months is enough. And as a bullet, I've written down the number of members of the investigation committee nine. I think it's enough to make her operational. I set it in a parish, that is, according to the pattern of other commissions: ČSSD two members, YES two members, KSČM one, TOP 09 one, ODS one, KDU-ČSL one and Dawn of Direct Democracy one member. Once again, I submit for discussion, it's all open. So that's all from me at the beginning and I'm available.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u5	Thank you and I ask you to sit down at the rapporteur's table and follow the general debate that I am opening with this and I have the following applications in it. First of all, there is a factual remark from the President of the ODS Stanjury Club. Then there will be the speech of the Minister of Justice, then Mr Korte, then Mr Tejc. Please, Prime Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u6	Thank you. I won't need two minutes. I don't want to argue with what a parity system means. Parity is, everyone has the same. So it's quite a comic suggestion that parity and two clubs have two and the other clubs one at a time. That's really not a parity system. I mean, if it's not a par, seven times one, we're not going to vote in favour of this committee. That's how the committee always worked, that every club had one deputy. This isn't a proportional system for a government coalition to have to secure a majority in that body. [[unintelligible]] So I'm putting the counter-proposal in point 4 of the proposed resolution to the number of members of the committee of inquiry per seven and the representation of one member per member per member club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u7	Mr President, I am afraid that a proposal cannot be formally tabled during the factual remark, so in a detailed debate I will certainly give you the room to present a counter-proposal for the motion for a resolution, as formulated by the rapporteur. Madam Secretary of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very important moment when a Member proposes to set up a committee of inquiry after all the bad experiences with the committee of inquiry, respectively. with the results of their activities in the past. I have also been a member of the investigating committees, so I know that sometimes it does not depend on the efforts and activities of members, but also on the interplay of political circumstances and the willingness of the institutions, in this case active in criminal proceedings, to cooperate. As Minister of Justice, I very much welcome this initiative. I recommend that the ANO and the other coalition partners and the opposition express their agreement. I think I know very well in those two months as Minister of Justice how hard it is to control the activities of law enforcement authorities. I'm sure you've caught my efforts to control the state's attorney's office in the Opencard case and the Blanka tunnel, my questions, repeated, written and oral, to the Attorney General. In most cases, I will receive an answer that everything is perfectly okay, that supervision of the activities of these very important criminal law institutions is carried out, respectively. criminal proceedings. In this case, I'm talking about prosecutors. [[11.10 hours]] However, the result of their work, which was indirectly criticised by the judge mentioned here, Dr Sotolář, in connection with one of the judgments that had already fallen in the case of Opencard, is evident to the legal layman that the true culprits are not prosecuted and accused. However, when we follow the standard rules of criminal proceedings and apply the current non-compliant law on the prosecutor's office, which does not allow sufficient control of subordinates, as I would imagine from the level of the Supreme Prosecutor and from the level of the Ministry of Justice, the result is that we must establish a certain compensation, we must substitute the role that belongs to someone else by law, the investigative commission. So, in any case, I recommend a positive assessment of the adoption of the motion for a resolution that Mr Huml has made here. At the same time, I think that there is nothing to prevent a proportional representation, which may have been marked by a parity, but it is a proportional representation, in a committee which corresponds to electoral results, and I therefore consider it completely legitimate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Before I give the floor to Mr Korte, I would like to tell you that Mr Jiří Junek apologizes for today's meeting of the House at 11 o'clock for work reasons. The words will therefore be taken by Mr Korte, who, as the Minister has previously spoken, will also be the rapporteur for this press. So congratulations, Mr. Ambassador, on your newly acquired post, and I beg you to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said and written about the Opencard case. This matter also contains many strange things and many absurdities. In fact, we could divide it into two parts: Opencard 1 and Opencard 2. In Opencard 1 there are officials involved who were on the selection committee for the whole project. One company, Haguess, fulfilled the conditions, fulfilled the limits, and these officials recommended that the city's leadership, the council under Mr Bém, conclude a contract with them, which happened. Then one of the members of this selection committee, Mr. Chytil already mentioned, discovered some strangeness, i.e. that the documents for the award were prepared by Hagues. He found out from electronic prints. He voluntarily and knowingly provided this information to law enforcement authorities, while negotiating the position of a confidential witness, was aware of the risk he was taking. Based on his information in 2009, Ms. Jana Ryšlinková filed a criminal complaint, I think she was the deputy at the time. The investigation was suspended from the very beginning, blocked, slowed down, stopped and subsequently postponed as unjustified in 2013. The witness, Mr. Chytil, was compromised, immediately fired from the Magistrate, twice the unsubs searched his apartment, threatened. He was subsequently charged, charged and convicted, not yet right-handed. It is to say that the prosecutor, Mrs Dagmar Máchová, described his role in a very incorrect and tender manner to the court. While those who caused this, or the political representation of the city under the leadership of Mr Bém, and who maybe, I don't know, stole it, because the original competitive price was 150 million, but the city paid Haguess over a billion by means of a negotiated procedure without publication and repeated contracts for the work, so those who caused it today are only allowed and people are going to the court as witnesses. In addition, we have Opencard 2 and there are politicians charged for a change, but this time those who have not caused anything, who have only inherited this case and today are absurdly accused and waiting for prosecution, while those who have done so are still laughing. The council of the city under the leadership of the then mayor of Mr. Docent Svoboda, our colleague today, was faced with a choice, either or. Both were wrong. Either she could write off an investment of 1.2 billion. and say "dear people of Prague, you bought a nice card, you paid for a fare, you were pretty fools, you bought paper tickets from tomorrow" or you could somehow try to save the project for a transfer period. They found that Hagues has contracts for absolutely everything, not only copyrights that are inalienable, but production, maintenance, just everything. They had two independent legal opinions drawn up, because logically in such a case it was not possible to draw up a tender because there was only one person who could manage it, and this was Haguess. Two legal opinions have explained to them that it is possible to act in a negotiated procedure without publication. He threatened to collapse the whole system, ended the validity of the cards, and if the city had previously paid Haguessu for maintenance 8 miles. On a monthly basis, please, on the basis of a contract that has been renewed every two months, i.e. bypassing the tendering procedure, it is now worth 2.8 million. a month, so not only did there not cause any damage, she created a savings. That's probably why the defendants are charged and maybe the day after tomorrow. I first said that there are a number of weird things in this whole case. I'll say one, please. Although it's a case in Prague, it's being investigated by the South Bohemia Department for the detection of organized crime. Why South Bohemia? Is it a coincidence, please, that police officers from Prague's ÚOOZ tell each other that the case was targeted, manipulatively staged, that this is why it is in southern Bohemia because the local ÚOOOZ is leading a South Bohemia prince to the wire and that the aim was to eliminate a political competitor? Or damage it? Is this bar bullshit, or is it true? I don't know, but let's try to find out. I said there's a lot of absurdity in the case. I'll just say one conclusion. One of the accused today is former councilman Pavel Richter. When he brought the charge home and left it on his desk, his son read it and astonishedly discovered that it was written in the justification of the accusations of the entire passage from his year's work, from the work of a first-year law student. They were written literally, including grammatical errors. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the TOP 09 and the starosta, I declare that, of course, we will support the establishment of this commission and also support Mr Stanjura's proposal. Last words. There have been some 16 or 20 committees of inquiry in the Chamber of Deputies since 1990. None of them really solved anything. Why? It is precisely because they were composed in a parish, that there were some political interests, and therefore there was a vote on the truth. But, you know, you can't vote on the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u11	Thank you, rapporteur, and please take a seat next to the petitioner. Mr Tejc, Mr Fichtner, Mr Blažek, Mr Hovorka, is now in the debate. What's on the board is misleading, but if you report from the scene and don't report in writing to the left from my point of view, it's not possible to put it on the board. So if you want to be on the board, please write at the table on the left. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u12	Mr President, fellow Members, I confess that at this point I am not determined whether to vote in favour of this committee or whether I will abstain in this vote. And the reasons are as follows. Firstly, I am a great defender of parliamentary committees of inquiry as such. I think that experience from other countries shows that this is a very powerful tool for examining and naming things that would otherwise not be named. Unfortunately, tradition, whether American or British parliamentary committees, has never been established in our country, and we would probably never be able to follow it up and start somewhere else. And unfortunately, the committee's reputation is what it is. But I don't think there's any point in saying "the commission has never investigated anything" to give up this instrument and this instrument. The second thing is whether the commission is to be set up for this particular matter. As I have heard of Mr Huml and Mr Korte, I have come to the impression that this concerns a bit of two other things. One thing is whether we should examine whether the police are investigating correctly and whether they correctly accused a particular councilman of the capital city of Prague for Opencard in that last case, which also involved the extradition of Mr. Mayor of Svoboda, and here I think we should not do that, that we should simply not start investigating the way in which the UOOOZ and the state prosecutor are investigating and saying what was or was wrong. I don't think it's right because the court hasn't decided on this matter yet, and after all, those people are still - in quotation marks - just accused. And I say this also with the view of the person who voted against the extradition of Mr Svoboda's ex-Prime Minister to prosecute, but although I voted against his extradition, I do not think that the commission should interfere with the current investigation that is here, and examine whether or not the IOOZ has doubted this matter and whether or not it should fall into their exhibition in southern Bohemia. The second and second views concern the case of a particular magistrate official who has been convicted and who, as has already been suggested, allegedly had the promise of becoming a cooperating defendant, and here I would also like to see another view. I must say that the very fact that someone is convicted by an independent court is quite proof to me that he has committed something. And the question is whether the particular person who was convicted decided to cooperate with the police at the moment he got the impression that something wrong was going on, it is necessary to inform the police so that she could investigate things or in despair that he would soon be exposed, rather he went to the police to turn the others in. And those are the looks that are hard to judge. They may be judged by the committee, but I think that the court that has already ruled on this matter has played a role in this, and it will still be decided, as far as I know, by the court of appeal. So we shouldn't go ahead and say, "He's some poor innocent who's been convicted instead of criminals who should have been convicted - because the investigation on this matter is definitely, and I hope, it's not over. I would also be concerned if the entire case of Opencard ended with the accusation of several councillors for the continuation of the project and ended up being convicted, in quotation marks, small fish, officials who played a secondary role in this matter, and those who were behind the project, who politically pushed him, for example, with the vision that money would flow somewhere, and those who made money through the Opencard project. But do we know if this matter is being investigated? Do we know that now the Chamber of Deputies' investigation committee will not interfere with the prosecution's efforts, whether the Supreme, the Chief and others, to investigate specific cases? Won't that mean trying to cripple the investigation? And now I don't mean purposeful, but indirect. And it can't damage this investigation? These are the questions that I am asking myself, and I admit that although I do not recognise the simple idea that we should save up what is already always decided, and we cannot interfere with the investigation absolutely at all in the sense that we should wait until these things are decided and return to them after ten years, I do not think that this should be the case, so I am really very careful and I will very much consider whether to support such a commission with this very purpose, even though, as I say, in principle, I am in favour of the committee of inquiry working, and if one of them succeeds, and it depends very much on the composition of personnel - let's not lie to myself that it depends on which House will set it up in what period, it depends on which people are able to go and work there - that will, of course, be good. But I'm really afraid that we shouldn't spoil the possibility of punishing the real culprits behind Opencard who once pushed it through and secured the tunnel for public money in this matter. So that's just a little concern I have, and that's why I'm still going to decide whether to support this committee in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u13	Now a factual point - Mr Polčák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must confess that I value my colleague. I do not wish to say that, given the information that was also the subject of the deliberations of the mandate and immunity committee, I do not want to say that he has changed, but that his practice so far was rather to issue Members, and that, in the case of Mr Svoboda, I think he had a firm view and voted against extradition in the light of the facts that arose during the deliberations of the mandate and immune committee. Anyway, about what he said here. I confess that I am also not a big fan of setting up committees of inquiry, but I ask myself a question on this particular matter, when to set up such an investigation committee, and a colleague Tejc said that the investigation is still ongoing. On the other hand, I can no longer imagine setting up a committee of inquiry in a situation where proceedings will be brought before a court and, in principle, I think it would also be against the principles of the rule of law if such an committee of inquiry had been set up after final judgments were issued. After all, I think that a completely legislative body should not interfere with the activities of courts by reviewing the quality or accuracy of such decisions by courts. So I also came to the conclusion that if we set up an investigative committee on this matter, perhaps only now, at this very moment, because the matter is not yet under judicial scrutiny, we would not have interfered with a matter which concerns the jurisdiction of the courts, but instead we would have resolved whether the legislature has some leverage towards executive power. And I think that there is a moment for us to think about, and I have come to the conclusion from all the decisions that I will support this committee of inquiry for this very reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. And now, therefore, Mr Fichtner, with a proper application, and after that, Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I would perhaps just be a technocratic person, but I would like to say some basic facts about this case, about the Opencard case, so that, for example, not only the non-Prague MPs who may not be following the case so much, or maybe they do not have complete or comprehensive information to give them, but, of course, also the public. [[11.30 hours]] First of all, basic facts. Two criminal proceedings are currently under way, as far as I know. One for a deed defined by the allegedly illegal award of a public contract in the context of a tender for the Opencard Service Center project, that is, the original contract, which was awarded at the time of the Mayorship of Mr.Pavel Bém. And the second for a deed defined by the allegedly illegal award of an opencard service extension contract without competition, i.e. in the negotiated procedure without publication. That was in the days of Mr. Mayor Bohuslav Svoboda. In both cases, damage to the capital city of Prague should have been caused to a large extent. According to the information available, the current situation in both criminal proceedings is roughly as follows - I will not elaborate too much, however, the first criminal proceedings concerning the original contract are in the trial stage, with the court of first instance wrongfully condemning all the defendants. In view of the appeal filed by these wrongfully convicted, i.e. still defendants, the case will therefore be examined by the second-instance court. The second criminal proceedings are therefore still at the stage of the investigation, where, according to the information available, the investigation is more or less over and the police authority, namely the Unit for the Detection of Organized Crime, the expositure of České Budějovice, allows the accused to get acquainted with the file and make proposals to complete the investigation. It can be expected that the next step will be to hand the file over to the prosecutor with a motion for prosecution. Now, on the motion to set up a committee of inquiry. The proposal is based on the conviction of a part of the Members that the course of the investigation of the Opencard case bears non-standard characteristics which may indicate systematic influence of the investigation in favour of the political leadership of the capital of Prague between 2006 and 2010. At the same time, some Members believe that this systematic influence resulted in the focus of criminal proceedings in a direction that should not have gone. That has already been said here by Mr Korte, i.e. against the former officials of the City of Prague, who participated in the award of the original contract to the company Haguess, not against the political leadership of the capital city of Prague, i.e. against Mr Pavel Bém and spol. Furthermore, the criminal proceedings should not have been brought against the political leadership of the capital city of Prague represented by the former mayor, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. These complaints were also raised at the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee by Mr Bohuslav Svoboda during the discussion of his extradition for criminal prosecution and at the meeting of the Security Committee, where the defendant, who was now illegally convicted by Jiří Chytil, has been invited to the meeting of the committee by Mrs Jana Černochová, expressed himself in a similar manner. In principle, when it comes to the complaints, I would just briefly recapitulate on five points, maybe somebody will fill me in. However, the criminal proceedings are blamed on both the absence of the former leadership of the capital city of Prague, and the alleged - I say the alleged - because the commission has not yet established and has not investigated anything, so that it is really necessary to be very careful in our statements at this time. Alleged disclosure of classified witness Jiří Chytil from the Police of the Czech Republic and his subsequent allegedly unfair criminalization. Also reported high fluctuations in investigators who were in charge of the Opencard case. Alleged bias on prosecutor Dagmar Machová. Alleged purposefulness and too hard procedure towards the political leadership of the capital city of Prague, headed by Bohuslav Svoboda. Perhaps there are more, these are roughly the complaints that lead to the proposal to set up an investigation committee. I'm going to give my opinion now. Of course, the Opencard case cannot be ruled out. I don't know if anyone knows right now, I don't know. On the other hand, this cannot be confirmed at present because we do not have the information. The establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry is probably appropriate in this case, but such setting up of a committee of inquiry has certain difficulties. The commission of inquiry should, in particular, avoid any steps which may affect the course of criminal proceedings as a result. After all, - once again completely subjectively - those Members who will be part of the committee of inquiry, it is not their main task. It is one part of the work of the Member, and when we compare it with the amount of work carried out on the case at all levels of law enforcement bodies, that is, both at the ÚOOOZ police authority and at the prosecutor's office, and in the first case and at the hearing, there is, of course, some dysbalance and there is a risk that those Members who are going to take a categorical view on this matter will be decided on the basis of incomplete information. This is, of course, one aspect that needs to be borne in mind. The question of guilt and punishment is also not a political matter, although it may seem that way from some of my previous speakers' speeches, but it is a legal issue and its solution should indeed be left to the court. The commission of inquiry should not in any way subjugate this function of the court. For this reason, the commission of inquiry should concentrate on finding answers to those questions that are not answered by the criminal proceedings themselves. It should also not substitute the activities of the prosecutor or, on the contrary, the defense. Indeed, we should leave this to law enforcement authorities. And what I think is the greatest risk is that the commission of inquiry will become an instrument for presenting political views and creating a media image that does not necessarily correspond to reality. In short, we should be really careful about this and be careful about the comments that, as Members, or some as members of the committee of inquiry, will give. On the other hand, it is true that this risk cannot be a reason for failing to set up that commission of inquiry. But, indeed, that committee of inquiry - that is probably the last sentence - should focus on what it is set up for, that is to say, a pure determination of the state of the matter and informing the Chamber of Deputies. I repeat - not any attempt to influence criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u17	I thank Mr Fichtner. Before we proceed, the President of the Chamber of Deputies apologizes for today's meeting from 11:30 on account of the working session until 13:00. We'll continue the discussion. According to my records, it is now Mr Pavel Blažek's turn to apply properly. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u18	Thank you for the floor. Hello. I'm a little unhappy about this discussion, and I'll tell you why. The Chamber of Deputies is a political body, its commission of inquiry will never be anything but a political body of a political body. I'd like to draw attention to all those who were before they came here today for the commission to come up, that it probably means well when it comes to uncovering one case. But from the words of Secretary Válková, I understood the political objective of this institution. And those are the words "the State's Attorney's Office." Let me tell you one thing that is fundamentally unacceptable. If we want to control the state's attorney's office, we need to check either - which is physically impossible - all 100,000 of the roughly initiated criminal proceedings or none. It is not possible to choose one that we will spookily control that we will commit what cannot be said otherwise than selective justice. I'm not only responding to the committee right now, but I'm quite surprised by the Minister's words, and I'm going to say that she scared the hell out of me. I understand that the aim of this commission is to hack into the district attorney's system, if there is no other way. It is indifferent if it is the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Prague or if it is a State Prosecutor's Office in Brno. Unfortunately, on Sunday I watched the TV debate of Václav Moravka's questions, where I am also the first Deputy Minister of Justice, and that scared me even more than what I heard today, he heard words such as that public opinion does not understand justice, the media side of justice is complex. And that's exactly the direction you can't go under any circumstances. [[11.40 hours]] And I have unfortunately come to the conclusion today that the First Deputy Minister has not long been able to get along with the City Attorney's office, that the Minister has his ideas about how the state's attorney's office is supposed to function, how she should control it, unacceptable to me under existing legislation. As far as Mr. Chytil is concerned, I don't know him at all, but the craziest part is the fact that I learned on TV that in the presence of a so-called publicist, Jan Urban, who is a member of the wider team of Diag Human, which I would not like to discuss here, there is an agreement between these people in the presence of a police officer that he will be a confidential witness. I don't want to repeat here that he may be either a secret witness or a cooperating defendant and that on this land such an agreement has nothing to do with it. And I have no other conclusion than that the purpose of these gentlemen's meeting was not justice, but only an attempt to get into Prague's politics and discredit it if possible. Because, in particular, Mr Jan Urban is an extremely excellent master in the service of Mr Šťáva. It is no longer possible, for example, to Blažek out that the Ministry may need to deal with Mr Ištvan of the Attorney General's Attorney General, and get the answer 'no, that is interference with the state prosecutor's activities', but in another case it is not interference. So either we measure all the same subway, or please don't do that at all. We have no choice. Of course, we can change the relevant state's attorney's laws, but this is not possible in the current situation. Attempting to control the prosecutor's office, except - now I will simplify it - some aspects of personnel and economic activity do not allow the law. The one that is. The law submitted to the last House was only passed by first reading, not approved. But I repeat - I am beginning to understand what some of us are trying to do, what their political goal is to set up this committee, and I am taking the liberty of quite fundamentally but truly distancing myself from it. I don't want media justice, that's the way to hell, or selective justice. That is the worst thing we could do at this moment and on this soil. I think that's enough for now. And I have to say, I'm very, very unpleasantly surprised by what I've heard here, and I'm concerned about the justice in this state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u19	I thank Mr Pavel Blažek. Now two facts - I will ask my colleague Hovorka to be patient. First Václav Klučka on a point of fact, then Mr Chalupa. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u20	Thank you in two minutes, Mr. Vice-President. I'll only say two things. I will confirm what my colleague Huml has already said here that at the last meeting of the Commission, when we asked questions to GIBS officials, whether they dealt with the Opencard case in general, we were told that in one case yes, in one case on an initiative that we do not know which was given there, the Commission may subsequently find out and that this investigation is in a way closed. The second thing is for a margo performance by colleague Fichtner. I would like to say here that the commission of inquiry is not an institution active in criminal proceedings. Even in Part 9 of Section 48 of the Rules of Procedure, I quote: "If the facts found by the commission of inquiry suggest that an offence has been committed, the commission of inquiry may announce such a fact to the law enforcement authorities.' The word "may" sounds really scary. As anyone discovers that a criminal offence has been committed, it is his duty to report this fact to law enforcement authorities. To explain where the final authority of the commission is at the moment. Yes, he does, and when he finds out, he does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u21	Thank you, even for keeping time. Now Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, also on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u22	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I will be joining myself in setting up a committee. I don't agree that if we're not capable... and now I'm not gonna play police or judge or state's attorney. If it's implied here that if I'm not able to check 100,000 cases, I'd rather not deal with anything - that's not how I'm gonna treat it. If there are indications that something's wrong, it's our duty to deal with it. We will certainly not judge anyone, but if we find, on the basis of the results of the commission, that legislation is not necessary in order, it is our duty to change legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u23	I thank Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. One more factual comment by Stanislav Polčák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would only like to follow up on President Klučka to a certain extent, because what he said is certainly very important. It is also important to remember the margo of what Mr Fichtner said. There is no doubt that Members who will be members of such a commission will have to know not only the Rules of Procedure, but the Rules of Procedure are also supplemented by an annex to the Rules of Procedure of the Commission, where there are rules for providing information, where there are rules on confidentiality obligations. So, yes, there is no doubt that we can assure ourselves here that all Members will have to pay more attention to their words, and there is no doubt that such Members will face the eternal task of informing the public to a certain extent, while respecting the obligations imposed on them by this negotiating status. But it's their responsibility. I think that, with this complaint, it would in principle be possible to refuse to set up any committee of inquiry. If the commission of inquiry is set up, it will also be established with responsibility to the members of the committee, as President Klučka rightly pointed out to a certain extent. Maybe one comment. The meeting of the mandate and immunity committee is also by law private, and unfortunately many of us, members of the mandate and immunity committee, are kissing the media and talking about things to remain secret.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u25	Thank you for keeping time. And I still ask my colleague Ludvík Hovorka to be patient because Mr Matěj Fichtner made another point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u26	Thank you, Mr President. To Mr Polčák through you, Mr President. I am not opposed to the establishment of this commission of inquiry, on the contrary, I support its establishment. What I was saying, I was merely pointing out the risks that may occur during the time the committee of inquiry will carry out its activities. This means that there is a risk that some Members, with their comments, will try to influence criminal proceedings in some way through this committee of inquiry. It's a risk, I hope it doesn't happen if you help us out, I'm only happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u27	Thank you. We're still on the verdict. Another colleague, Ivan Pilný, has made a point of fact, and then perhaps it will come to a colleague, Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not young but new, which means I am not responsible for setting up committees of inquiry that have never investigated anything. So I have no choice but to follow common sense, and it says to me: Opencard is pasquil, amazingly overpriced, which has limited functionality, has been expensively paid and the damage will not be replaced anywhere. That's one. Two. We are a political assembly that cannot be depoliticized. This means that if we proceed to set up a committee of inquiry, it should probably not respect the results of the elections, but it should really be a parity meeting. All I get from this is that all the committee can do is examine the progress of the Opencard case. There are risks that some of my previous speakers have drawn attention to, because we are really interfering with the work of independent bodies, which we should probably not interfere with. At this point, I am not determined to vote, but I know that we will not remove the damage that has happened, and we will never make this meeting a political one. That should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u29	I thank Mr Pilný. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is now duly registered for his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. You're not limited.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, dear fellow Members, I would only like two recommendations based on my own experience in the proceedings of the Commission of Investigation. I would like to recommend that the Commission take due care, if it is established, of who will possibly assist her as an investigator supplied by the Police of the Czech Republic, and in particular that this person should have a degree of secrecy. I was a member of an important committee of inquiry, which had two investigators, but unfortunately neither had a classified certificate and could not get acquainted with the BIS documents and other classified materials that we were receiving or were able to study. And the second recommendation has already been mentioned here. It actually responds to the fact that the output of parliamentary committees of inquiry is often nothing concrete. It is specifically a request and an appeal to amend the Rules of Procedure in Section 48 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 9, "if the facts found by the Commission of inquiry indicate that an offence has been committed, the Commission of inquiry may notify the law enforcement authorities of that fact'. It should be here that "the commission of inquiry must notify such a fact to the law enforcement authorities'. Then it would be much more effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u31	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr Ivan Gabal, now duly enrolled, has so far been the last in writing entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would, on the one hand, submit to the KDU that we will support the creation of the commission and support the number of seven, because we find the argument rational. On my behalf, I would just like to remind you that we issued a colleague of freedom a while ago, and I argued that we are actually issuing it as a result of the fact that the first criminal report of Deputy Director Jana Ryšlinková has not been investigated and a substantial part of it has been postponed with quite incomprehensible arguments after a few years. I would just remind my colleagues here from the ANO movement that they argued at the time that they were voting for the release of their fellow Members, not because they thought they were responsible, but because they did not agree with the Institute of Immunity. That means arguing in a different way today against the formation of that commission doesn't seem rational to me. Next, the case of a classified witness has already been mentioned. To Mr Exministra's arguments, I must say that the fact that the witness was betrayed and subsequently punished, although the information he provided is evidently facts, and whether it is being argued or not, is secondary in my view. The factual question, to what extent did this happen correctly or not, I think, be appropriate to the committee of inquiry. The last - because I was also a visit to GIBS, and since the debate took place there, I must say that GIBS had no idea at all how the original criminal report was investigated under the audit of T Kearney, which raised five very serious criminal charges and where in fact, in most of them we only got to postpone, so even there I felt that there was no reason not to look back at the main authorities' progress, which does not mean that we would have to deal with thousands of other cases that are currently in the solution. We consider it reasonable - and the number of signatures suggest this - to look backwards, that is not to identify the culprits or something like that, but to try to reconstruct the procedure of the competent authorities in the case, and thus to apply to them a certain control option that we undoubtedly have. I don't think there's an ingenuity to their work, because the work on the key charges has been closed. That closure is what I think we're interested in, because there's only 60 of the same pages between the investigating police officer and the prosecutor, and the rule of copy-paste-Google as the basis for their erudition to postpone is not something that would leave me in peace. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u33	I thank Mr Ivan Gabal for his speech. I have two applications from the post. The first application is to Mr. Pavel Blažek, the second to Mr. Jiří Štětina. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond. You can give up a witness if he's a witness. Mr. Chytil was never a secret witness or a cooperating accused. The so-called police officer who took part in the meeting never made any record of it. There's no evidence that he's told anyone in the police and the D.A. about this. There's only one thing that follows. If it's been compromised, it's probably one of the three who took part. But you can't reveal what doesn't exist. He just never was, and he never asked, if the information I heard on the show I saw on Sunday is true, we probably don't know anything more about it. As for what Mr Hovorka said, I did not object, or no one here argued that the conclusions of the commission might be vague. I fear that they will be too politically specific and will only be used to make sure that, at first sight, some of the godly groups can finally get into the public prosecutor's system, and that is not why I will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u35	Okay. Now I have other factual points. The first factual point is electronic from Roman Váňa, then factual comment by Ivan Gabal, then factual comment by the applicant, so I will ask my colleague Štětina to be patient. Please, colleague Roman Váňa. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking for a long time about one particular case, the Opencard case. The names of the actors of this case have also fallen. I would just like to point out that, according to the law, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is only in the public interest, not in the interests of specific persons, that it is possible to set up a committee of inquiry. And the public interest on this very issue - why this particular case has been chosen - is not entirely clear to me, because then we could deal with thousands and millions of other investigations, other trials, other very difficult fates, which undoubtedly are and which, after all, often come here in writing to the House. So it is a certain moment, whether the public interest in this particular case is really large enough to justify the establishment of Parliament's commission of inquiry. That's the question I'm asking you to consider.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u37	Yes, thank you. Now, Mr Ivan Gabal, on a point of fact. Then, Mr Huml and colleague Chalupa, with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on the previous speaker, technically only, and Mr Blažek's ex-minister. The Opencard case can't be reduced to that leaked witness case. I said that out of five serious criminal charges, three of them are postponed with quite a bit of sluggish arguments, and it is necessary to look back at how the investigation progressed. The witness' case is only one very partial matter. What Mr Exministri said may well be before this committee if we set it up, but it should not be a territorial principle of debate about whether or not to set it up, which I do not want to argue with your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u39	It's all very factual. Now, Mr Huml, then colleague Chalupa, colleague Grebeníček and then again colleague Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u40	I would also like to respond to my colleague Blažek. He is the witness, my colleague, through the President. You're quoting one show, but there's been more of those shows over time. And the deputy mayor of the capital city of Prague on Czech television clearly confirmed, and it was broadcast about two months ago that she was there. He came to tell her as her assistant deputy mayor, and the deputy mayor contacted the police and organized the meeting you were talking about. I think, for the ordinary - in quotation marks - the person who turns to his superior, who arranges a meeting with the police, is that - what you want more? [[12.00 hours]] And to the public interest of his colleague Váňa. You're a billion that's blown out of the chimney, not enough for public interest, for not being investigated until today, whether it's basically a crime or not? Sounds like a strong public interest to me. And selective justice - back to the right again. One case has been selected because there are suggestions that there are repeated impulses that this investigation is not going on as a standard. And if you claim that we are selectively prosecuting only some of the criminals, that is not true either. We can't keep up with all the residents. And, unfortunately, even the D.A. can commit a crime. And we can speculate whether these control mechanisms are or aren't set up properly today. I deliberately wrote in the motion to set up the commission: I will examine the activity. She's not gonna punish the commission, she's not gonna investigate whether the crime happened or not, but she's gonna investigate the activities of those law enforcement agencies. I think I agree with my colleague Polčák that the time to establish is now. Now, the most important thing is that it doesn't happen again in the next two years, when we see again that more cases are swept under the carpet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u41	Thank you. Now, my colleague Chalupa, with a point of fact. A colleague of Grebeníček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u42	I don't want to be late. I think public interest is trying to expose the mechanisms of these crooks and try to come, or if we expose them, then, of course, we should do everything we can to make sure it doesn't just happen. That's public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u43	I thank my colleague Chalupa. My colleague Grebeníček gave up his point of fact. Mr Pavel Blažek, now with a point of fact, then a proper colleague of Šetina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u44	Thank you for the floor. I will go to the plaintiff by your means. Selective justice wasn't a response to a motion to this commission or to you. That was the reaction to the Minister's words in the context of the general debate. A brief response to Mr Gabal, through you. I wouldn't talk about the witness, she's a certain marginality in the case, but the plaintiff, and that was the response to him, he said as one of the essential things why he's putting the proposal forward, so I responded that, as part of the proposal, it was communicated as a material matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u45	Thank you. It is now finally time for Mr Jiří Štětin to be duly signed up. Mr. Colleague, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u46	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am listening very carefully to the discussions of all my colleagues. I would like to remind you of one thing from this place. In the last parliamentary term, I had an interview on three ministers, on Mr Kubice's Home Secretary, on Mr Pospíšil's Minister of Justice and on Vice Prime Minister Peake, on the case referred to in this Republic and which is not selective. They're system. That means starting in 1994 and ending in a year - I don't know - 2012. And I asked them to tell me how these cases were investigated, who was saving them, why they weren't investigated. Do you know what the conclusion was? That I don't have an answer to this day. I understand why. I don't think anyone wants to break into the D.A.'s office. No one's gonna play any committee that's through the investigator, the D.A. I think whoever knows a little bit about crime knows they can't go into a living cause. And I welcome that it is finally the political will to start saving the case, in which so far, as I see it, and I cannot judge it, are judged by people who probably were not at the head of the poodle of this case. So I have to say, I welcome this committee, and if it starts working tomorrow, just fine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u47	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin. That was the last one entered in the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, sir, yes. Chairman of the ODS Club, Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u48	You've confused me slightly. The President of the Chamber of Deputies said that I should read the proposals in a detailed debate. And obviously, the debate is common. So that's why I volunteered now before you closed...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u49	No, of course I will open a detailed debate on the proposal. It's not about the law, it's about the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, and there will be both debates, so it's okay. But, of course, no one is stopping you from speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final word after the general debate. Yes, the plaintiff. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u50	Thank you. I would like to thank all the previous speakers. I think there's something extraordinarily important here, if we set up this committee, so choose people who understand criminal law a little bit, maybe even not completely without the right to be kissed. And if there are comments about the fact that they didn't investigate anything in the last committee, I agree with the view that this is about how the commission will be staffed. So I think this House has a chance to be somebody else once before. So that's my final word. I think the changes were also read on, I was wrong at the time when I introduced it, I said the partnership representation, I meant of course proportional. Mr Korte's amendment to make it one person, i.e. a partnership, has fallen on each side. Maybe we can still argue that not six months, but only until the end of this year. We're going to extend that a little bit, which is Mr. Stanjura's proposal. So I'm just loading it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u51	Okay. Now, if the rapporteur is interested in the final word after the general debate...? We will now get to the detailed debate. If not, thank you. I am opening the debate in detail. I have no written application for it, I register the application, of course, to the President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. I'm giving him my word right now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u52	So I formally propose a change to the proposed resolution in point III. The place shall set a time limit of six months from the date of establishment of the commission, I propose a fixed date, to set a deadline of 31. 12. 2014. In Article IV, the amendment to the resolution - determines the number of members of the committee of inquiry to seven, representing one member per club in the Chamber of Deputies. That's two suggestions, and then just a short proposal or a request. I think it would be nice if individual clubs, when they deal with personnel proposals, put people outside of Prague and, if possible, people who have never worked with the police or prosecutors. I think it would be quite good, but that's just a request for individual clubs to choose their nominees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u53	Thank you. Now, who's next for a detailed debate? The plaintiff, if he repeats only the text that is ready for the resolution. The rapporteur? Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u54	Thank you. So I'm saying that the motion to dismiss has not been submitted. Two amendments were tabled, namely paragraph III, to set a deadline of 31. 12. 2014 - can we vote on this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u55	Please, that means the original proposal is a nine-member committee...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u56	So the original proposal is six months, the amendment is until 31. 12. 2014.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u57	Yes, or there is a basic proposal that we have on the table, which is nine-members for six months, the counterproposal is seven-members with a deadline of 31. 12. 2014. Yes? Okay. We will vote on this matter. I'm just repeating the suggestions so that we know what we're going to vote on. Anyone else interested in speaking in the debate? It's not like that. I am ending the debate in detail. We will take the vote. The proposal, Mr rapporteur, for the vote is first on the counterproposal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u58	There are two counterproposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u59	Two counters. So first of all, a proposal for the number of members, because this is a fundamental thing, i.e. counterproposal against 9 is 7. Yes, are we all in agreement with that? [[No objections.]] I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of Members and Members has settled, I shall begin the vote. It's going to be the 59 vote I started, and I'm asking who's for the seven-member investigation committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 59, from 155 in favour of 68, against 37. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on a nine-member committee of inquiry. [[Disagree in plenary.]] No, that's the original proposal, okay. So I wouldn't be affected that I'm manipulating this place. We will now vote on the deadline for completion, i.e. If the deadline is 31. 12 or six months. So the question is, who is in favour of the commission being set up by 31. 12th of this year. Who's in? I've initiated a 60-order vote. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 60, from 157 in favour of 140, versus 2. The motion was accepted. We therefore have to vote on the proposal as a whole with one change, i.e. with a deadline for completion of the commission's work. We will decide in the vote order number 61 on the setting-up of the Commission in those amendments that have been adopted. I've started the vote with order number 61. I'm asking who's in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 61, from 155 in favour of 121, against 20. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that an investigation committee has been set up to investigate the Opencard case. [[A round of applause from the ANO movement.]] The President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura shall be reported outside the Rules of Procedure. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u60	So we saw again in practice... First of all, we listened to 70 minutes of performance here, how we have to look for the truth. And then, just to be safe, you voted for the majority so that we wouldn't happen to find out the truth in opposition. Congratulations. You can keep all that talk about how you're gonna look for the truth because you're obsessed mostly with the investigation committee. You've got it there, good for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u61	That was President Stanjura. President Kolovratník, logically, President of the Election Commission, is now reporting. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u62	Mr President, thank you. I'll give you technical information on the selection of the commission. I will remind you that the composition of the commission will be voted in plenary by public vote. Only then can the committee choose a proposal for its chairman from among its members. We will then vote on the President in the form of a secret, i.e. a secret choice. As a first step, I must declare a deadline for the nomination to be submitted to the members of the committee. I'm declaring this deadline by Monday 24 to 12 o'clock next week. I will repeat this once again: Deadline for submitting a proposal to the Secretariat of the Election Commission on the second floor on Monday, March 24th, at 12 o'clock. The Commission will meet on Tuesday hour before the start of the plenary session and then at the beginning at 14:00 we will vote on the composition of the committee. Then the next step will come, the President's choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-014-056.u63	Thank you. This was the technical communication of the President of the Election Commission and we will continue with the proper points that we are discussing. I'm done with point 56. According to the approved agenda, we will proceed with item number
