ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-011-025.u1	25. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China Hong Kong on the transfer of sentenced persons (Hong Kong, 4. 3. 2013) / House print 104/ - first reading It is the last of three agreements with Hong Kong, and I ask the Minister to present this press as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-011-025.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, my esteemed colleagues, I will remove the substantial differences from the recommendation for the approval of this agreement, because when we have already approved the agreement on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings and mutual legal assistance, it would of course not be logical if we had problems approving the extradition agreement, the transfer of sentenced persons. This is different from the previous two agreements, in particular by allowing the transfer of a person, if there is still time to execute the sentence of six months at the time of the application. It also anticipates the possibility of handing over a person who is not only in prison, but also a person who carries out a safeguard measure consisting in the waiver of personal liberty, such as protective treatment. However, the condition for the transfer of a person under this Agreement shall be one year's limit, which still has to be completed when the request is made. Then it is important that, in view of the practice of negotiating agreements of this type, it is precisely the limit of one year that has been reached, i.e. based on certain standards. Then there is a provision on juveniles, where it is therefore possible to view the person transferred as a youth in the beneficiary country regardless of whether he was sentenced as a juvenile in the transferring country. So there may be a difference between the recipient country and the transmitting country. Of course, in all these cases, our obligations under international agreements and agreements that oblige us to avoid any activity if there is a risk of imposing or exercising the death penalty. The implementation of the agreement will be under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, but is ensured precisely because it is already the transfer of sentenced persons through Interpol's national central office and will be linked to financial requirements for the transport of persons transferred from Hong Kong to the Czech Republic, which is provided by the Prison Service of the Czech Republic. Although the implementation of the agreement will not be linked to increased demands on the state budget, it will be covered by the chapters of those ministries, and in accordance with § 132 para. In such cases, the Czech Republic will demand compensation for convicted persons arising from their transfer to the homeland for the execution of the sentence. So in this case, we should get the funds spent back. Since it is a logical dot for a new comprehensive regulation at an international level between Hong Kong and the Czech Republic in criminal matters, I ask you to give a kind assessment and a positive approval of this third agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-011-025.u3	Thank you, and in the third time, please the rapporteur, Mrs Konečná. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-011-025.u4	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for the great news report by the third time and ask you again for the commandment to the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-011-025.u5	Yes, thank you. I'm opening a debate that no one is reporting to. That's how I end it. Final words? There is no interest in them, so we will proceed to the vote. There was a motion for a commandment to the Foreign Committee. I'll ask if there's another suggestion. It's not like that. I am opening the vote and I ask: Who agrees that this press be directed to the Foreign Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 56, registered 146, for 125, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We ordered the press to the Foreign Committee. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur, and I finish point 25. Let's continue with the point.
