ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u1	67. Members Dana Váhalová, Bohuslav Sobotka, Jeroným Tejce and others to issue a law amending Act No. 229/2013 Sb., on the handling of certain items usable for defence and security purposes in the territory of the Czech Republic (Law on the Management of Security Materials) /Departmental Press 237/ - First Reading in accordance with § 90 para. 2 There is a proposal for the law to be discussed in the first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2. We received the Government's position as House Press 237/1. I now ask Mrs Dana Váhalová to present the proposal for the appellants. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you to support the amendment to Act No. 229/2013 Sb., on the handling of certain items usable for defence and security purposes in the territory of the Czech Republic, Act on the handling of security materials, at first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2. The aim of the proposed legislation is to remove unjustified hardness from the existing regulation. It was created in cooperation with the ministries concerned and the professional public and was submitted with the support of Members of our Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum. On 1 January 2014, Act 229/2013 Coll., on the handling of certain items usable for defence and security purposes in the territory of the Czech Republic, Act on the handling of security materials, came into force. Some changes in the content and breakdown of the security material, its records and its security requirements affect the private owners and collectors of military technology in a large way. Practice shows that the current regulation on the handling of safety materials is disproportionately harsh. In particular, the discussions raise doubts as to the scope of the existing legislation in substance, as some types of material do not show signs of high risk. In particular, these are historical military vehicles, technology, morally outdated technologies that were originally developed for military purposes, etc. There are some doubts as to the need for existing requirements to demonstrate the reliability of such persons, as it should be noted that the implementation of property rights or the pursuit of business activities does not only mean the acquisition of ownership, possession, purchase, sale, lending, development, production, repair, modification, storage, transport, degradation or destruction of security material, including mediation of these activities. The submitted legislation therefore aims to eliminate the unimpaired hardness of the existing regulation by releasing the obligation to demonstrate safety competence for persons handling group safety material five and six. The additional disproportionate hardness of the existing legislation also lies in the high and hazardous nature of this material to inadequate safety requirements. These requirements are, in some cases, more stringent for collectors of military technology than weapons security requirements. In keeping with the current situation, many would be forced to sell, transfer to another person or carry out disposal. The proposed legislation therefore aims to prevent this condition and therefore proposes to mitigate the security requirements of the material in such a way that these requirements correspond to the degree of risk of the material being secured. The submitted legislation brings into line the conditions for demonstrating the reliability of persons dealing with safety material with the conditions laid down for the holders of arms and ammunition, as these conditions are unjustifiedly stricter in the current legislation for the holders of safety material. Failure to deal with the above problems would unduly burden the persons handling the security material and would de facto be liquidated for some of them. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support not only on behalf of all the submitters, but above all on behalf of all collectors, associations and organizations who are confidently waiting for your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u3	Thank you, Mrs Dana Váhalová. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Václav Snopek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u4	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, dear Vice-President, fellow Members. My colleague Váhalová has sufficiently explained the reason for the amendment of this law. I'm just going to elaborate some ideas so that we can understand what we're going to decide in this case. First of all, we must realise that this law is implemented by two decrees, namely Decree No. 407/2013 Sb., on the breakdown of safety material, and Decree No. 376/2013 Coll., on Technical Requirements for Security Material. [[18.20 hours]] The law qualifies as a sensitive area, inter alia, for the handling of safety materials. For clarification. Group 5 are combat and special vehicles without weapons systems and components covered by the Convention on conventional armed forces in Europe. Group 6, the sensitive area, is military aircraft, helicopters, drones without weapons systems, aircraft engines or aircraft and helicopter equipment. The critical point in this material is the question of proving reliability. The petitioner said that, particularly in the area of proving reliability, this law is very hard. This means that not only owners, but also persons who repair, modify, transport, storage, etc. for the holders of safety material must have registration, and if they are safety material in group 5 or 6, they must also have safety capability. The deadline for eliminating these deficiencies was set from 1 January to six months. It turns out to be short, even from the point of view that they do not succeed both the National Security Institute, it disproportionately burdens the Police of the Czech Republic, i.e. the Regional Directorate, from the perspective of control. As has already been said here, this material mainly affects military history clubs, private museum collections, but also the Kunovice Air Technology Museum, it affects operators who manage military fortresses in the border areas within the military history clubs, it affects virtually all activities where historical military material is also handled. Some traditional events are also at risk, such as the Day of Support of the Army of the Czech Republic, i.e. Cihelna, where a significant part of these activities are carried out by military history clubs. It should be noted that the diction of the law is as strict as it was said here that the gun lavatory is seen as more dangerous than the weapon under the D-group arms law. Therefore, the aim of the petitioners is to correct this hardness, but also some material shortcomings. The law does not correct material shortcomings, because it will have to follow certainly a government bill that will have to rethink this area. But in order not to get a huge group of people into trouble with the law, it is necessary to adopt the proposed adjustment. It is proposed that this law be discussed within the meaning of Section 90 (1) of the Treaty. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u5	I thank Mr Snopek and open a general debate which I do not see an application for at this time. I ask who is reporting for the general debate. Mr. Mr. Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. Due to the activities of military-historical clubs and e.g. Of course, we support this proposal from my home region of the Museum of Aviation in Kunovice, and I believe that we will all meet our military-historical clubs, collectors and other people who are concerned with the preservation of our history. I beg your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u7	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Mr Jan zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u8	Vice-President, I'm joining in on what my colleague Benešík said. They're not just hobbies who have their own special or curious hobby. These are simply people who really reminisce part of our history and who breathe for it and who keep the old jeeps, dodge and all possible other historical weapons systems. And they were really very sad and nervous about how it would turn out. I admit that I would also be in favour of taking measures that would enable them to continue to do what they do and what I believe is very beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u9	I thank Mr Zahradník. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Because I don't see anyone, I'm ending the general debate. Since no objection has been lodged, we will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 237 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I have an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the resolution as I have put it. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of continuing the negotiations on Houses of the Press 237 so that consent can be given to him at first reading, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 233, 81 Members of Parliament registered, for 81, against none. It was decided to continue the negotiations. I am therefore initiating a detailed debate which nobody is reporting to. I therefore conclude a detailed debate and proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Dana Váhalová, Bohuslav Sobotka, Jeroným Tejc and others to issue a law amending Act No. 229/2013 Sb., on the handling of certain items usable for defence and security purposes in the territory of the Czech Republic according to the House's Press 237." [[Act on the management of security materials]] I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 234, 81 Members of Parliament registered, for 81, against none. I note that consent has been given to the bill, even unanimously. This is unbelievable. Please, the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all once more. Thank you for all collectors in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-007-067.u11	I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. Before we proceed to the last point of the proposed meeting today, I apologise for the reasons of work of the House of Member Vladislav Vilímca. Now we're going to look at point number
