ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 10/ - second reading The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government will be presented by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of the content of the draft law amending the law on public health insurance. The proposed legislation aims to implement a Union directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, whose transposition period expired on 25 October 2013, i.e. more than three months ago. This is the reason for my request that, when discussing this bill, no possible adjustments to the Public Health Insurance Act be considered other than those directly related to the transposition of that directive and respect the limits laid down in this Directive. Of course, the Ministry of Health perceives many areas that should be addressed in the future in the Public Health Insurance Act, but these changes presented by the government proposal also do not include the reason that his journey will not be threatened by the legislative process, given the expiry of the transposition period. In this respect, I must inform you that the European Commission has already sent a warning to the previous Minister of Foreign Affairs regarding the failure to implement the provisions of this Directive into our legal order. By letter, the Government of the Czech Republic was invited to comment that there was a real threat of an action before the EU Court of Justice and the imposition of a cash penalty. The draft law, in accordance with that directive, establishes the right of Czech insured persons to reimbursement of the costs they have incurred for health services which they have decided to receive in another EU Member State. This, of course, is not the only claim of insured persons under European law. For several years, EU regulations have also been applied on the so-called the necessary care and planned care authorised by the relevant health insurance undertaking, where such care is taken in another EU Member State, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. This is therefore a certain addition of the area. The submitted regulation newly provides that insured persons should be replaced by the costs of health services which they have received in another EU Member State and which are also not covered by the health services covered by those Regulations. The insured person's costs will then be reimbursed up to the amount of the costs incurred by the health insurance undertaking if the health services concerned were to be used in the Czech Republic, but always up to the maximum of the actual costs. The proposal was discussed at a total of three meetings of the Health Committee, with the most discussed issue being the so-called issue. prior consent. The directive allows payment of costs for certain health services was subject to the prior consent of the health insurance undertaking. The categories of health services for which compensation may be made conditional upon prior consent are set out very restrictively in the Directive, with the need to be specifically defined health services. Such services are also linked in future to other obligations involving repeated reports to the European Commission, including reasons why it is necessary for them to continue to be subject to prior consent. The conditions laid down by the directive in the Czech legal order meet the health services defined in the Government's regulation on local and temporal availability. Therefore, the Government's proposal also states that the government can define by its regulation only those services which are included in the Government's regulation on the local and temporal availability of health services as subject to prior approval. In this respect, the Committee on Health agreed on an amendment extending the possibility of defining these services beyond what the directive allows. It thus goes against the meaning of a directive consisting in better functioning of the internal market and facilitating patient mobility within the EU. For this reason, I cannot agree with him. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this sense I am asking you to respect the content, meaning and purpose of the directive to be transposed when discussing any amendments. It is therefore absolutely necessary, even with regard to the obligations of the Czech Republic arising from EU membership, that the draft law submitted be discussed and approved without undue delay, and therefore I am addressing you with a request for its support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Health Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House press 10/1-3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee, Mr David Kasal, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u4	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, my previous speaker, the Minister here has summed up in detail what this transposition amendment is about. We discussed it in detail and were interested and discussed repeatedly with the Health Committee and the Health Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, House Press 10, as amended by the amendments adopted. Two amendments are also part of this resolution, which has been discussed. One is legislative technical regulation and the other is an amendment specifying the functioning of this amendment. It has been discussed and is in accordance with the Committee on Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Mr David Kasal. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Leoš Heger, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, joined. Please, Mr Hegř, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the previous debate on the previous point, I will try to be more brief, although the matter is relatively complicated. If, on the previous point, this matter was complicated by price-setting mechanisms, then in this case it is a kind of legal complication, and given that my position was somewhat different from that of the health committee which tabled the amendment, I would like to explain what the Minister here proposed that the amendment be approved without the amendment, although I fear that in this distribution of the political scene it may be a kiss of death if I defend it. [[10.40 hours]] But this thing is so legally interesting! Although these are mainly patients, as Minister Němeček said, and this is their relative opportunity to take care elsewhere, if they need it or are interested in it, the interpretation of the directive is legally difficult, because it sets out a whole range of rights of the patient in a clear way for the legal layman in the preambles and it is harder to read these measures in the implementation form of individual sections of the directive. I would make it simple, because this is really a problem for legal dissertation and the lawyers disagreed about the amendment, especially the lawyers doing the professional health and the lawyers who represent the insurance companies. I'll take the liberty of making an explanation on a fictional example. The example will be a little trivial, but at least I can explain the basics. We can imagine three fictitious examples. First, liver transplants in the baby. A matter that was a problem ten years ago and had been taken up by various collections would today, that is, a situation where some medical technology is not available here and needs to be sought elsewhere, have been dealt with by a directly applicable regulation of the European Community on social security and the child should be entitled to travel abroad today. So it stands above the European directive we are discussing today. Perhaps I can say one single example, which is that some technologies are questionable, is proton radiation, where when there is an argument, whether it is to be done here in Prague or somewhere else, patients are sent to Munich today. The second example, which is already part of the directive, is the replacement of the knee joint. This situation is addressed by the Government's regulation on the availability of orthopaedic joint replacement, they are appointed there, or theoretically the State could order another government regulation under the proposed amendment to the Act that it will require preliminary consent here that the patient may be treated abroad and that preliminary consent will have to be given to the insurance undertaking if the availability period prescribed by our Government's regulation is not achieved. If the availability is sufficient and the patient can be treated here in, say, six months, then he will have to be treated here and the preliminary consent cannot be given. Where it is most pregnant is a really invented example of the treatment of a paralyzed person after some spinal injury, where we can imagine the situation that the person is intensively rehabilitated, intensive rehabilitation, say, inventing again, takes one whole year, and if he is partly successful and the patient is no longer improving, or is also unsuccessful and the patient is not getting any better, then after a year he will switch to some maintenance rehabilitation of the nursing character of the patient. If such a situation were to be subjected to the directive and the Czech amendment, there could be two cases. If the patient is subject to consent that the patient can be hospitalized in another country and continue to receive care, such a condition can be done by the government's regulation in any case. The problem that the patient must and cannot refuse is that the insurance undertaking cannot refuse any treatment unless the treatment is clearly defined in the law that it is not provided with us, and this is not because the patient's rehabilitation is given in case he needs it, and according to some kind of methodological rules or practice, and when he no longer needs it, he does not receive it and can be refused treatment, but if the patient wants to be treated abroad, a regulation will be applied which can be read in the preamble to the directive that Member States in which patients are insured should be entitled to receive at least the same benefits in another Member State as those provided for by the legislation of the Member State. The problem is that we use the restriction of care, which is normally practiced to ensure that the system is financially sustainable, and is applied on the basis of some methodological regulations that create professional societies, or, as has been done here at the last point, so-called philatelist clubs, but sometimes the methodological measures are also determined by the Czech Medical Chamber, so in such a case the requirement of the directive to be laid down by the Member State in legislation is not fulfilled. So if the patient, even if the need for prior consent is expressed, asks, and if he asks the insurance company for permission, the insurance company has to allow it under the European directive, because there is no clear regulation anywhere that says that intensive rehabilitation should be interrupted after a year. The authorisation will be issued regardless of whether the directive is in the form presented by the Ministry of Health or has an extended possibility to make care conditional upon prior consent, even as it happened in Germany, where it was said that all hospitalizations would be conditional upon prior consent. The petitioners did not dare to go this far because it is clear that the legal side of the matter is quite delicate, but even if they dared to go this far, they would have come across that our care is not codified by some sensible law, but it is codified by methodological guidelines and customary, because it is very difficult to make codification by law, and thus, in a possible trial, the patient will be able to go abroad and the insurance company will have to pay it off. It's a bit of a sad matter, because until now, the state has refused to face the fact that care in our country is under control. I can already hear the criticism of why we did not do so in the current opposition when we were in the coalition. We've tried in several cases. After a long time, I was in a position to issue a payment and indication decree for a spa treatment that has put a stop to care, and what controversial discussions are there so far, and how the effort to get it back is clear to everyone. [[10.50 hours]] So if the European directive is required in the form of the spirit of its preamble, and if patients are sued, we will do nothing but allow it. No regulation, as long as we have it directly for our patients, treated here, in the law, will not help us. And the question of how we will now adopt the law is whether we dare to go against the spirit of the rules, which, according to the interpretation of part of the lawyers, is the amendment to the health committee. If we dare, the question is whether the European Commission will then demand that the directive be implemented as it is written, or whether we can take a chance and play a legal game with the Commission, which may end in having to change the directive. At this point, no one can answer that clearly. At this point, no one can answer how patients behave. The assumption after many discussions and foreign consultations was that the proposal would not endanger us, that patients had so many blocks, starting with language barriers, knowledge of the situation abroad, and the need to pay for care abroad, which is more expensive there and there is greater involvement that the mass flow of our patients abroad will not occur. I will vote in the third reading for the version in the form of the Ministry. Of course, if the amendment passes, I will also vote in favour of the directive in this amended proposal. I might say that non-tactically, but it's fair to say here. I have tried to persuade you to adopt the directive in a pure version of Europe, although some people do not like Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u7	Thank you, Mr Member, and before I invite Mr Hovorka to the microphone, Mr Koskuba has made his views known. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long, I'd just like to add my previous speaker. You've often heard the word that he's talking about a patient. You understand, the patient doesn't exist, he's a client, and that's just the content of the laws that Mr. docent gives us. Heger as Minister of Health with his coalition shot here. We were pointing out that back then. It is a breakup of long-term relationships between a doctor, a nurse and a patient, but it is worth recalling. After previous reforms in the Czech Republic, the patient ceased to exist and we are talking about the client. It's not as small as we all think. We are legislators, we should think about it and return the patient to his place so that we can talk about him at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I'm inviting Mr. Hovorka to the microphone. Please prepare Mr Svoboda, Mr Klučka, and after that Mr Vyzula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, in this case I agree with Mr Leoš Heger because I think he is right. I also did not support the amendment in committee because I believe that the amendment really goes against the European directive. The Ministry's legislation in this case was quite unambiguous. The legislation of the Parliamentary Institute said that the amendment was partly compatible with the European directive, so I had two legal opinions made to me that confirmed that the proposal was against the European directive. But I would like to talk about something related here, a system of Czech health, which unfortunately reveals this law. I would like to quote: European mobility is controversial precisely because it reveals a contradiction between the claims of the insured person and the system. While with the Czech provider, i.e. in the medical facility, the insured person gets really only within the limits of his contract, i.e. the contracts of the medical facility and the regulatory mechanism, i.e. There are a lot of untreated, obstinate or rejected patients or traces of addicted patients. If the medical facility has exhausted its limit, i.e. that it will no longer receive medical insurance from the health insurance company, it is unlucky, or the medical facility will provide it for free or with some very small payment. A foreign provider does not need a contract, i.e. that it is not subject to regulatory restrictions. That means he's motivated to accept all patients. So all people who are theoretically entitled to treatment in the Czech Republic but are not really treated because they do not have money, known and not even lawyers to force it on them can today get this service abroad and tear down the insurance company or the Ministry's hidden mechanism. It's not a fault that some patients don't treat themselves. This is a characteristic of the current economic model of healthcare based on the regulation of the supply side. The Brit found out because their waiting lists were suddenly useless because British patients could have taken their claim to France in 2004. We can fix this in two ways. Either the insured person's entitlement to what is funded will be reduced, e.g. By throwing some expensive services out of payment for ordinary people, I quote ordinary people in quotation marks, i.e. Those who have no defense won't change anything, because they wouldn't get it anyway. Or we can create a system in which the patient will be deprived of specific claims and treated free of charge in a public hospital within its financial capacity. The first model has one disadvantage - because the service will be competitive and insurance companies will buy it with the cheapest provider, the health facility, and not necessarily the one that provided it today. This is something many untouchable, in quotation marks, providers fear like the plague, because they are not effective and live from historically higher payments. The State, however, protects the interest of these providers in particular. In fact, if he defends the interest of insured people, he will be glad that competition will increase in the form of foreign providers, i.e. quality will increase and price will fall. For example, specialized centres are tools for protecting Czech untouchables. It has a framework in Section 112 and subsequent Act No. 372/2011 Coll., but it's not really followed. Really, it is produced by the Ministry of Health and Professional Society. The centre will only be created where strong players are interested in it, and they will close the market like this, because the centre cannot receive reimbursement from the insurance company for expensive medicines and performances. Who is the center has no published criteria, there is no fair trial and it is decided by the prejudiced people. It varies from diagnosis to diagnosis, but at least in some central specializations, the network of centres does not copy any geographical uniformity or distribution of the population. It is completely chaotic and the connection can be found mainly with where those who decide to establish centres work, e.g. hematooncology three times in Prague, of which twice over the corner of Karlák, then Hradec and Plzeň, but the whole Ústecký, Liberec region nothing, nor Karlovarský. In the ophthalmocentres, the professional company has now recommended that five centres remain in Prague, but the only one in České Budějovice is to cancel for the million-dollar boom. It sort of works in the Czech Republic. This Act on European Mobility basically reveals the weaknesses of Czech health care. And I want to say that if this law is adopted with an amendment adopted by the Health Committee or if it is approved as submitted by the original government proposal implementing the European Directive in its entirety, nothing is happening. It doesn't have a real impact in itself. It only allows the government to close patients in the Czech Republic. The same debate will then arise at the government level in the preparation of the government regulation. If the government acts wisely, it doesn't mean anything. If they try to use this power and close the patients, there will be chaos because patients will be entitled directly from European law, and if there is any litigation, the state will eventually lose the dispute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u11	I thank you, Mr Member, and please add another one to the debate, Mr Klučka. [[Noise in the hall]] I'm sorry, Mr Liberty. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed bill introduces, in some form, an institute of preliminary consent. It is an institute that is not mandatory in the European directive. We're introducing him there to limit the care of our insured people in some way. Unlike the Health Committee, I have to express my fundamental opposition to this institute being used. The right of a patient to receive healthcare is the right defined in our constitutional and legislative principles and to open up the space for us to ban something is the opening of space for fundamental lobbyist and corruption influences. When a patient decides to take care abroad, he decides to have a language problem, a communication problem, and that in any case he will have to pay for the care. The care will be paid back to him, not to pay the difference between the price it costs abroad and the price it costs here. And we're going to put the institute in charge of making a regular decision by an authority in the form of prior consent. This decision will certainly be legally reviewable, and probably all the courts that the refusal of consent was legally incorrect will be. And it'll only mean one thing. A patient, if he's an ordinary patient, can't get legal help because he won't know how. Anyone he wants can do it, only the care will be postponed. Last but not least, I would like to point out that this is essentially a very small number of patients. The experience with cross-border care so far clearly shows this and nothing will change. When we put it there, we implement a directive that will allow all care to be preserved in this country and prevent patients from pumping it according to their decision. And their decision is absolutely crucial in my understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, please, Mr. Klučka. Mr Vyzula will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u14	Madam President, members of the government, colleagues, do not worry, I am not an expert in health care, I will not interfere with doctors and health professionals in their work. But I looked at the current text of the relevant Public Health Insurance Act, and I have to say, it's an up-to-date text that I just printed out of the ASPI system. I trust him, and then I don't understand one thing. In the present Section 16a, which is called regulatory fees, paragraph 1 (f) is missing. Point (f) to understand each other, there are regulatory charges for hospital stays. It's been released. Most likely in a situation where the Constitutional Court so decided. Then you will find the sentence in the following paragraph 2: The regulatory fee referred to in paragraphs 1 (a) to (f) shall not apply. That letter (f) lives in that law. Then even further. In the relevant section 16 and in paragraph 3 you will find... sorry, yes, in paragraph 4, I apologize, you will find a provision that says: the regulatory fee referred to in paragraph 1 (f) does not apply in the case of bed care for a newborn child, from the day of birth, and so on. Again, the letter (f) lives in this law. And then please take a look at the regulatory provisions in paragraph 6, where the regulatory fee referred to in point (f) is also paid to the provider within eight calendar days after the end of hospitalization, except in the case... and so on. I don't know what to do with this. On the one hand, point (f) was deleted, the regulatory fee for hospital stay is not payable, and on the other hand, point (f) lives in this Act, in the following paragraphs. I really don't know what to do about it, I don't know what to do about it, if it's a legislative regulation, it's not a legislative regulation to get this regulatory fee problem out of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And please to Mr. Vyzula's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u16	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, please return to cross-border care. It was said here by Professor Heger, and very rightly that this is indeed a legal, very specialized analysis. We have dealt with this issue in a lot of detail in the Committee on Health, we have spent tens of hours on it and three committees since the last meeting have mainly been filled with the problem of cross-border care. Questions such as the often discussed proton therapy were raised, very expensive. Radiation of one patient to a diagnosis of prostate cancer, for example, costs something between half a million and three-quarter million crowns. You know that there is currently the possibility of an insurance company not to pay for this treatment or a patient... No, he won't. That he'd rather send the patient to a foreign workplace in Munich because it's cheaper to take care of him. We're going to talk about proton therapy, it's a complex issue, and now I'm not saying for or against, but it's important to discuss it. But if we leave cross-border care in the amendment of the law as it was submitted by the Ministry of Health and without the prior consent of the insurance company any patient will say: I have prostate cancer, the insurance company here is building on it so and so, without any consent, now, immediately, without waiting time I will go to Munich, they will radiate me there, I will pay it there and submit the bill to the insurance company, which will pay me with the theory that it would be possible to get some money back because it is cheaper there. However, this could happen without the amendment that we have proposed and which has been approved by the Health Committee that we will simply exhaust our health insurance companies. I'm not saying it has to happen, but theoretically, hypothetically, there is this possibility. That any patient with any care, if he doesn't want to wait here in the Czech Republic, goes abroad, gets the care there, pays for it and gets paid for what it would cost here with us. There is a possible increase in patients because, as we know, health care is sometimes bottomless. That's why the novel. The amendment... the amendment, I'm sorry. The amendment simply sets out that the Ministry really sets out exactly what indication is in the case of prior consent, while the amendment sets out when an insurance undertaking can refuse this care. It's kind of a refinement of what lawyers couldn't agree on exactly. And it's kind of to avoid unnecessary exhaustion of funds from our health insurance companies. [[11.10 hours]] I must point out that, given the legal problem, we have also asked the Parliamentary Institute, which has spoken about this and which does not find a fundamental problem against the European directive. So this is about the amendment. Then there was one more thing about specialized centres in the Czech Republic, Mr. Hovorka. I would just like to say that this really is a serious issue and the Ministry of Health should address this in order to clearly set criteria for all specialised centres so that they can be checked regularly. Indeed, there can be some chaos without it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Bendla, I'd like to ask - factual? Really, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I originally did not want to do this, as I have said my thing about this amendment to the Health Committee. But since this is advocated by the chairman of the Health Committee, I have to say the reasons why I can't vote for something like this, even here on the microphone. The moment we complicate the situation for the citizens of the Czech Republic so that they can choose whether they want to be treated anywhere else in the European Union - and it has been said here that there are no large numbers of people - and we will complicate the situation by creating an institution to which they will have to go, I will say, lobbyically ask if they cannot cash it out, etc. ... Today, the situation is that it is not that someone will spare, or what the President has said, that insurance companies might have saved. They will pay the treatment up to the amount they would have to pay in the Czech Republic. And if it's cheaper abroad, they'll pay for it there. But it's not like we're pumping money out of health insurance. Those are the means of the people who put them there. As a result of what you are defending, Mr President, through Madam President, there will be queues going up or, if you wish, waiting people for surgery, because we will limit the chance of people getting treated elsewhere. It is necessary to admit that sometimes some types of treatment simply take longer time, whether it is for financial reasons or I do not know what kind of capacity, and at that moment a citizen of the Czech Republic who pays for his health insurance here, up to the amount that an insurance company would pay in the Czech Republic, has the chance to cash it elsewhere and can possibly contribute - that is just his thing. We're taking this chance away from them, and we're saying you have to come to a new organ and convince it. As he is convinced in the Czech Republic, I think we have often had experience with this. I cannot support this, and I am sorry that this is what doctors support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u19	I'm sorry, your time is up. Thank you. Mr Koskuba is another registered official. You're downloading? Yes. Mr Hovorka is therefore another member of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u20	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and gentlemen, I am only talking about what the chairman of the committee has said here on the matter of the Centres. Specialized centres were established overnight by the announcement in the Ministry of Health Bulletin and some hospitals learned that there are no centres anymore. When I requested information from the Minister at the time and the next Minister on how the rules were being followed, I received nothing. In the end, I was only notified that it was decided by a commission composed of representatives of insurance companies, representatives of the Ministry of Health, etc. But composition, specific people, etc. I've never seen or heard. So the process of creating centres has never been fully transparent and it would certainly be good for us to get some detailed information, i.e. to know how certain hospitals become specialized centres, and also those centres should be distributed evenly throughout the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u21	Thank you. With another de facto Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u22	My esteemed colleagues, Mr Bendl's speech raised an interesting question in my head. Our insurance company will pay for the treatment that the patient has undergone abroad, up to the amount of costs he would have spent with us. How does he do that when we actually know that he's paying each of our medical facilities differently? What does that even count by? According to the cheapest hospital? According to the most expensive hospital? And then I would like to ask my colleague Bendl through the President: Do you know where he treats cheaper than us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And Mr Heger, please, in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u24	Thank you for the floor. I wanted Mr. Ing. Mr Hovorka, through Madam President, to say that it is not as bad with these centres as it appears to him. It's a fact that the beginning was a paraleg, that it was kind of executively wild. But then, in the next period, when I made a new law on health services, I managed to get into that law a passage that legalizes the centers, describes the system that they create, and the process is transparent in the law. The center's practically proven itself. There are a number of diseases that are being treated there, and the rights of patients are written in the government's regulation on availability. The most was discussed centers for multiple sclerosis and those patients who need those centers will really get into them. And by the way, centralization in our health care system has a very strong tradition in rare but important cases where it was spontaneously created. Back in the '80s, for example. The centers for children's cardiothoracic surgery were established, and no one doubted them at all, and to this day no doubt, even though the centers are still not defined by law. And I'd like to say for the ears of Minister Nemecek. In order to avoid any doubt, we in those centres ordered statistics to be conducted that allow us to calculate how well care is provided so that the centres and their medical outputs can be compared. That was for Minister Holcát. As I commended him for almost everything, it was suspended and it needs to be codified. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u25	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time is up. Thank you. Mr Svoboda and then Mr Hovorka, then Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of specialized centres is indeed a question of a huge problem. They are specialized oncological centres, called clinical oncology centres that download all care and have been selected according to some rules. The rules didn't follow right from the start. To this day, network coverage is not sufficient. An exception will be created for someone who has sufficient contacts and sufficient lobbyist influence. So today, when we compare care and its quality, we come to the conclusion that we're only comparing the ones that were chosen on the basis of some criteria that haven't been met. And that's what we're going to put in the institute of preliminary consent to this law. As far as the price is concerned abroad, through Madam President, I would say to my colleague that, for example, proton treatment is cheaper abroad than in our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mr Hovorka, with a factual view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u28	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I did not mention which minister I had intersected. It was Minister Julínek and then Minister Jurásková. It was about the first centres that were established between 2006 and 2010, at the same time, during the night it appeared, and suddenly some hospitals - their chiefs, seniors, found out when they came to work in the morning that they no longer had the status of the center. We had experience with this in the Zlín Region very unpleasant, it was about onkocentra, trauma center etc. So what I'm saying is that the process wasn't transparent, and I'm glad that my colleague, Mr. docent, wasn't transparent. Svoboda confirmed it here. I'm sure it's wrong that there's no coverage. Just for the proton treatment that Mr Svoboda mentioned here, I would like to say that perhaps the proton treatment is cheaper abroad, that perhaps the issue of the proton center in the Czech Republic was signed on the last day when a particular official was at work, when he was still an employee of a health insurance company, so maybe this treatment was so expensive, and on the basis of this contract on the future contract only the proton centre started to build because it had secured revenues for the future - it would have secured revenues for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mr Bendl, take the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u30	Two more notes. I wanted to thank one of my previous speakers, who said it would be interesting to know how the price paid by insurance companies to patients or clients, to be exact, abroad. And it would be good, I would ask the Minister to mention it here before the third reading or to prepare some information for the Health Committee, because it is undoubtedly important. And then there's a note about the local doctors. I think it is not wrong for treatment to be cheaper abroad, because therefore the General Health Insurance and other insurance companies will save money so that they can treat more patients in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask Mr Vyzula to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to tell you here just to avoid some misconceptions about how much proton therapy costs, as has been said here that all is - or that it is cheaper. I said that only in some cases proton treatment can currently be considered cheaper in some indications abroad than in our country. In other cases, please don't. My personal idea is that a clear indication of what the proton center will be able to treat in our country, so that it is, of course, effective for patients, so that it really has meaning, because there are other options, and so that it doesn't ruin our insurance. That's one thing. The second thing I wanted to say, which no longer concerns cross-border care, but concerns specialized centres, also as an oncologist, I have to say my opinion here so that it is absolutely clear. This is Mr. docent. Heger defended the way the criteria for specialized centres are set today. Yes, to some extent they are, but I must give the truth to Mr Hovorka, because she does not follow. It is only to be precisely defined, and not only for oncological centres, but also for other centres, which is why I appeal to the Ministry of Health to focus on this issue intensively and basically immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mr Plzák, who has applied to the facts. Mr. Klučka will prepare for the actual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u34	Thank you. I'm just going to apologize that my question has been asked inaccurately. I had in mind when I asked about treatment abroad - a treatment that is linked to a system of health insurance. Of course, I believe plastic surgeons in Thailand heal or operate maybe even cheaper than our doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Klučka, please. Mr Svoboda will prepare himself for the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u36	Thank you, Madam President. I'd just go with the challenge. I would really like either the Minister or the rapporteur to judge me in my request to see whether I believe it is true in the law or whether it is not true and can be overlooked. If that were true, then I would most likely, because the general debate is coming to a conclusion, I would use Paragraph 93 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 to be returned to the Committee for renegotiation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The other party to the case is Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a debate about the proton centre. I would very much like you to know the information that is essential. Treatment of protons is better in its result than classical radiation by the accelerator in only a few diagnoses. This is one of the reasons why they have not yet accepted this treatment as standard in the United States. Just because proton therapy doesn't have any better results than classical accelerators. There are several diagnoses, like eye tumors. There's just one hand on their fingers when it makes sense. Otherwise, from this point of view, from the point of view of the treatment result, money was wasted. And the other thing - I would really advocate that the issue of centers be a matter that the Ministry will deal with. 'Cause I'm just like my colleague. We know, through Madam President, that this is not correctly applied. I am not saying set, but that as it was created, it was indeed a condition of strong lobbyist pressure, and that is why this care is uneven and why some centers that should be are not, and which should not be, are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, Mr Chalupa has applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u40	Madam President, Dear Ministers of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to ask Mr Svoboda, perhaps because I am not a doctor, I am a layman, so why did this proton center take place when it is no use, if I understood it correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next time, I ask you to address your colleagues through me. Thank you. Since I don't have anyone else registered to the general... It's still factual, if you don't mind, Mr Liberty, so, Mr Svoboda, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u42	I will answer you through Madam President. It took care of itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u43	Mr. Glass Club Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u44	Thank you. In view of what has been said here, I would ask for a ten-minute recess for a meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u45	Okay, I'm interrupting this meeting and declaring a ten-minute break. I'll meet you here at 11:39. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats so that we can continue our negotiations. [[Short break.]] I ask Mr Klučka, who has applied for the general debate to take the microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after a short break, when we had the opportunity to consult with the Minister of Health and the rapporteur, I would like to propose that we adopt a resolution with a view to interrupting this item by Friday 7. 2. considering that it will be classified as a point after fixed points. Friday 7. 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have Mr Laudát's application here. Real or...? At the request of Mr Laudát, I am signing everyone off and I beg you to sign in again. Since I have no one else entered into the general debate, I am ending the general debate and I am taking a vote on the proposal to suspend this item until Friday 7. 2. with this point being ranked as the first point for fixed points in the Friday's programme. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the proposal? [[Odds from the diaper to the voting device.]] I declare this vote confusing. I'm reopening the vote. Who's in? Against? I'm done with voting number 25. This proposal was adopted. So we're interrupting this point until Friday 7. 2. [[11.40 hours]] Before we proceed to discuss another point, I have here an apology from Minister Chládek, who apologizes for serious work reasons for the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm handing over the meeting proceedings now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-004-002.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. The next item is the item
