ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u1	9. Proposal by Members Matěj Fichtner, Jan Bartošek, Stanislav Huml, Jan Volný, Jan Farský and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, as amended /German press 169/ - first reading We received the Government's position as Parliamentary Press 169/1. For the plaintiffs, I ask that Mr Matěj Fichtner come to the rapporteur's table and that Mr Ladislav Šincl also take his place at the rapporteur's table. At the same time, I ask Mr Fichtner to present the proposal as the appellant. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as one of the 56 petitioners, I submit to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for a law amending Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games. Before I begin to talk about the content of the proposal itself, let me first explain the reasons which led us to submit it. Gambling in the Czech Republic is rightly the target of criticism by the public, municipalities and various civic initiatives. The vast majority of critics are in the field of running slot machines. Let's make our problems clear. What's wrong with people? People are particularly annoyed by the natural development of the halls that destroy our cities. People are worried that their relatives and friends' families are falling apart as a result of the dependence of a family member, usually a father or son, on slot machines. People hate that socially weaker citizens throw a large part of their social benefits into slot machines. When we look at the surrounding countries of Europe, we usually find that gambling is not considered an extra-important problem. The cities are not full of gambling rooms and the addiction to slot machines seems to be not very widespread either. How is that possible? Let us look and compare legislation in our country and in Europe. We can start with France, for example. In France, the operation of slot machines is allowed only in casinos, so there are simply no such common games that are in our country. Casinos can be established exclusively in tourist or spa cities. However, it must be said that the French model is rather restrictive, so perhaps if we look at another European country, it may be different. Consider Poland, for example. In Poland, it is also possible to operate slot machines only in casinos, with the Polish gambling law limiting the number of casinos to one per 250 thousand inhabitants of the city. So, even in Poland, regulation is stricter than in our country and is practically approaching a total ban. However, again, the Polish model is also restrictive, so let's move on. For example, let us continue to Austria. The slot machine in Austria must meet several conditions. First of all, their total number is limited, when it is not possible to operate more than one slot machine per 1,200 inhabitants of the Federal Republic of Germany. In addition, the Act allows only three licenses for the operation of a gambling room in one federal country. It is also set by law the winning limit at the slot machine located in the gaming room at EUR 10,000 including the jackpot. The minimum length of one game one second, this is the time after which one game takes place, that is, when a player throws a certain amount into the slot machine, pushes the start of the game, spins a cylinder or game depending on how the device is designed, and learns the result. This whole, this is called the length of one game, and in Austria it is therefore prescribed by law for one second. The maximum bet per game is ten euros in Austria. In Austria, the parameters of the slot machines are similar to those of our so-called machines. Winning slot machines, however, their total number is dramatically smaller than in the Czech Republic, as it is limited by law. Let's look at Slovakia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask for some peace. For example, if the club presidents need to negotiate on the course of the meeting, which is, of course, their duty during the meeting, I would ask them to move their negotiations outside the meeting room and let you talk in peace. Everyone else, please calm down. [[The club presidents stand with Mr. Faltynek and do not perceive the challenge.]] I'm serious. [[The presidents answer the question: Us?]] Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u4	Thank you. Let's look at Slovakia. Slovak slot machines allow a maximum bet of ten cents and a maximum win of fifteen euros. In casinos this limit is not set. The minimum length of one game is four seconds. Thus, even with our Slovak friends, the parameters of the slot machines are set more strictly than in the Czech Republic. In conclusion, let's take a look at my favorite Germany, there certainly works great. In Germany, the limits for the parameters of the instrument are set so that the bet per game is a maximum of twenty cents and the maximum win is two euro. A maximum of EUR 80 can be lost per hour and a maximum of EUR 500 can be won. The minimum length of one game is five seconds. So basically, it's really an entertainment machine that is nowhere near the parameters that are in the Czech Republic. And that brings us to how it is with us at all, i.e. how we set the parameters for playing devices by law. In our country, operational parameters are set only for winning instruments, which are only a fifth of the market roughly. In the rest, this is for the vast majority of slot machines, which usually fall into the category of videolotery terminals, but they have the same function and look very similar, they are not the minimum parameters prescribed at all. The Czech Republic has thus become a European Las Vegas, which, of course, does not provide services to tourists, but allows automatic operators to legally exploit the weaknesses of their own citizens to lure money out of them. How else do you explain the enormous increase in the number of video lottery terminals in recent years? There's no other rational explanation. The regulation of lottery business itself is in a pitiful state. The games on each corner, the automatic machines without minimum parameters, the inexplicable lottery law of 1990 and the overloaded Ministry of Finance, which thanks to poor quality legislation cannot cancel the issued permits, which have come into conflict with generally binding municipal decrees. This is the reality of running slot machines in the Czech Republic today. From my point of view, almost as much trouble as photovoltaic. The proposed amendment has the ambition to significantly improve the current state of affairs. If I were to introduce you to him, he basically consists of two parts. The first part of the amendment aims to compare the regulation of slot machines in the Czech Republic to the standard in the rest of the European Union. This is achieved by the fact that all newly authorised video lottery terminals will be subject to the limits currently applicable to the winning instrument. So it will no longer be possible to lose hundreds of thousands in one evening, put thousands of crowns into the vending machine, or hope in vain for a multi-million-dollar win that pulls you out of debt. This will also reduce the possibility of legalising the proceeds of crime. The second part of the amendment concerns the situation where permits issued for gambling are contrary to generally binding municipal decrees. According to the draft, these permits will expire directly by law three months after the municipality has adopted a generally binding regulation prohibiting gambling in a specific location. Therefore, it will no longer be necessary for the Ministry of Finance to initiate administrative proceedings, but authorisations issued to operate slot machines will be cancelled directly by law. This mechanism will strengthen the position of municipalities and mayors who have decided to ban gambling in their municipalities will no longer have to wait for the Ministry of Finance. So much for the content of the amendment. It should be added that, as usual, a lobbyist shrink occurred after its submission, in which large gambling operators and various lobby groups seek to prevent the adoption of this proposal and thus protect their business for years to come. There may, of course, be partial reservations about the proposal, but the text of the amendment is very simple and all comments can be dealt with within the framework of the standard legislative process. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the pressures of the lobby lobby will be called off by most of you and will allow this proposal to be discussed and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u5	I thank the representative of the petitioners and ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Ladislav Šincl. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor. I'll ask you for a little patience. I have just received an apology from Mr Pflégr at a meeting from 14:30 to 18:00. Please, rapporteur, I'm sorry, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Dear Government, allow me to make a brief comment on the Parliamentary Press 169 of the Lottery Act. In view of the technical nature of the proposed amendment contained in the Parliaments of the Press 169, this draft law is subject to notification obligations under Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations and rules for information society services, as amended. [[12.20 hours]] Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations requires Member States to notify each draft technical regulation to the Commission and then to comply with the three-month period of suspension of work during which the Regulation may not be adopted. According to this standard, the regulation was duly notified. The Commission shall be sent a technical regulation in the form of a proposal, i.e. in a situation where substantial amendments may still be made to it. Where the Commission or the Member States deliver comments on the draft technical regulation requiring the text of the proposal to be amended, such amendment shall be possible. Given that each State has different rules for the legislative process, it is not precisely determined when the proposal is to be sent to the Commission and this is left to the discretion of the individual states. The obligation laid down by the directive is transposed into Czech law by Act No. 22/1997 Coll., on technical requirements for products and on the amendment and addition of certain laws. This law in the provision of § 7 para. 3 provides that a technical regulation or technical document may not be submitted for approval or approved before the expiry of the time limit for the submission of comments by the Government, provided that the period of suspension of work on the preparation of the technical regulation or technical document during which a decision on approval or on the preparation of a harmonisation regulation of the European Community is to be taken may be extended under conditions laid down by the Government. The government further specified these conditions in Government Decree No. 39/2002 of 3 July 2002. In accordance with this Regulation, when preparing the draft technical regulations and technical documents, they shall transmit to the Technical Standard, Metrology and State Testing Office a proposal at a stage at which substantial amendments may still be made, at least within a period of 100 days before the planned date of extension of the application for approval. Therefore, if the amendment was notified on 25 April 2014, then the minimum period of 100 days for which the application cannot be submitted to the approval process must be calculated from that date, that is until the first reading. The opposite would be, as rightly stated in the first two letters of the Ministry of Finance, not only a breach of the above national regulations, but also a breach of international obligations arising for the Czech Republic from membership of the European Union. The Czech Republic would thus be in danger of initiating infringement proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. It follows from the above that, after the proposal has been notified, as a general rule at the stage following the completion of the external review procedure, its further consideration must be terminated, respectively. shall not be submitted by the petitioner to the Chamber of Deputies for approval. Where comments are made in the framework of the notification, the petitioner shall be given the opportunity to modify the space before submitting a proposal for approval. This obligation therefore undoubtedly applies to the first reading of the bill in the Chamber of Deputies, which means the first consideration of the proposal in the House of Deputies' plan and, in essence, represents the opening of the approval process within the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In addition, it should be noted that the Government of the Czech Republic itself expressed its opinion on the amendment to the Lottery Act, which was submitted here, that the proposed regulation is probably not fully compatible with European law regulating the field of betting. Therefore, it is likely that the European Commission will apply serious comments to the notified regulation and therefore it would be extremely irresponsible to put the Czech Republic at risk of international legal proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The first two letters sent to the Chamber of Deputies from the Ministry of Finance correctly refer to this fact as Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš of 7. 4. as well as Deputy Minister of Finance Ondřej Závodský of 22. 5. 2014, since both the text of Directive 98/34/EC and the Czech law implementing this Directive clearly provides for the obligation not to submit for approval the text of the notified legislation before the expiry of the specified period of suspension of legislative work. Failure to comply with this obligation puts the Czech Republic at risk of initiating infringement proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. For this reason, this House press, on a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies, was excluded from the programme of the last June meeting. It is necessary to point out to the honourable Members of the Chamber of Deputies that the notification process, which I have just mentioned, is not officially completed to date. On 4. 7. The Minister of Finance sent a new letter to the Prime Minister, who is unfortunately contrary to the first letter of 7. 4. In this letter, which he arrived at me, the rapporteur, not until Monday evening, the Minister of Finance tells the Prime Minister that he is not the official plaintiff of this proposal, even though he is actually from the Ministry of Finance's workshop, namely Deputy Minister Závodský, and vice versa, unlike his first letter, he recommends that this House press be discussed at first reading even though the notification process is not yet completed. My opinion of the rapporteur is the opposite. In my opinion, it would be fair to put forward a proposal to interrupt this point until the end of the notification process. However, following the recommendation of the management of our coalition club, I will not do this to express my goodwill and not to blame the petitioner for wanting to hinder this parliamentary draft. In general, the proposal submitted by Members Matěj Fichtner, Jan Bartošek and others to issue a law amending Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries, consider a proposal that is materially motivated by a noble attempt to resolve the long-term incompetence and unsystematicity of existing legislation in the field of the operation of lotteries and other similar games. This inconclusiveness lies mainly in the fact that the regulation of the largest segment of betting games, that is, the operation of technical gaming facilities, is subject to a two-dimensional regulatory framework, because, in addition to national legal standards, it is also subject to sub-legal legal standards, which each community within the Czech Republic has the right to issue, and administrative authorities with national application are then obliged to apply several hundred -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u7	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you and ask for peace again. We're dealing with a serious legal issue that we're going to have to decide in a little while. I hope that everyone is informed about what you are talking about, at least through their own membership clubs, and in this regard I would therefore like you to pay attention to the rapporteur's speech. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u8	Then allow me to repeat my point. This inconclusiveness lies mainly in the fact that the regulation of the largest segment of betting games, that is, the operation of technical gaming equipment, is subject to a two-one regulatory framework, because, in addition to national legal standards, it is subject to sub-legal rules, which each community within the Czech Republic has the right to issue and the national authorities have the obligation to apply several hundred different and often very difficult applicable legislation. At the same time, however, it should be noted that the proposal put forward, while pursuing a legitimate, very sympathetic objective for me, my colleague, contains a number of problematic debatable places. So I don't hold back, so I don't hold back until the second reading is possible. [[12.30 hours]] In this regard, those who are interested in this subject can be fully referred to the opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic, which, in its opinion on Parliament's press, has set out a number of legislative shortcomings to be resolved in the proposal submitted on 5 May 2014. You will understand that it is necessary to create sufficient time to resolve this series of shortcomings, which the government of the Czech Republic has accused, not me. For this reason, in a detailed debate, I will propose a deadline for the discussion of the proposal under Section 91 of the Rules of Procedure for 30 days, that is, in total, according to the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs for 90 days, so that sufficient time is given for the discussion in the Committees and the Lottery Sub-Committee, as stated in the last letter of the number of four Mr Andrej Babiš of the Finance Minister of 4. 7. [[extend]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u9	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate. I have the applications here: first of all, on the factual remark made by Mr Volný, then with the priority right of Mr Okamura and President, then the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club, then the duly registered Member, including the plaintiffs' representative. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have time for your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Government, colleagues, I'd really like to make a point here, the rapporteur here has discussed some kind of peripetia of letters. It was more of a big misunderstanding. However, I underline that the European Union's notification process will be completed 25. 7. That means three months after the administration, which means it's in seven days. And if a colleague here proposes 90 days, that means 30 days of extension of this deadline, we will support it and we think that we have enough time in the second reading and committee discussions to work on any conditions of the European Union. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u11	Thank you, Mr. Volný, for keeping time. With a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u12	Thank you. At the same time, I am withdrawing my application for a priority right debate. For our club, it's very simple. We don't think there's any danger of letting it go to second reading, and there's no reason to block or interrupt. See if there are any comments in the notification process or not. So I would support Mr Volný's opinion that we can safely release this, and then we will see how this process continues. The only thing we can't do is, if the notification isn't over, vote at third reading, and we're not close to that yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u13	Thank you. Of course, this legal opinion is focused on some of the expressions that have already been made in our country. Now, therefore, Mr President of the Úsvit movement Tomio Okamura with priority rights and then duly signed in by Members, including the appellant. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we welcome any attempt to regulate and limit the risk of the Dawn movement, and I see this law as an expression of government gambling to do something about it. At least the possibility to automatically disturb the arcade is a practical benefit. But, of course, I see this law as a victory for the gambling lobby. The fact that neither the government nor the politicians dared to ban so-called slot machines and their equivalents across the board shows that no one really wants to solve the problem here. On the contrary, the state's efforts to parasite on the misfortunes of others and on its sick citizens seemed to prevail. It is necessary to repeat over and over again: gambling addiction is a disease. Disease severe and virtually incurable, treatable only by total, total abstinence, as is the case with alcoholism. I know we're all so-called. The good guys get their noses up against the gamblers and we're like, "It's their own fault. And if they're playing, at least let it cost something. So we use vice for a good purpose. But this mathematics and pseudology do not apply. It's true that an addict gambler destroys his surroundings. Financially, he'll ruin his family and his loved ones, rob his employer, and, of course, he'll continue his crime until he goes to prison. I understand the godly intentions of my colleagues who believe that gambling can be reasonably regulated and earned. Trust me, I can't. No one ever succeeded anywhere in the end. Gambling organisations report that the cost of gambling problems will exceed 2.5 times the revenue. I dare say this number is much bigger. When the gamblers steal the copper roof of the chapel, they get a thousand in the collection room and the state and the village get 100 crowns through the slot machine. The real damage, however, is in the order of hundreds of thousands. After gamblers, broken families, abandoned children with mothers on the street and lifelong debts that they didn't commit. Dear friends, this doesn't replace the biggest percentage of sharing in thieving and gambling addiction. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The proposed amendment to the Act sets limits on betting, which is about as much a solution as allowing a robbery, but limiting it to one robbery. How would that reflect in practice? Well, a burglar would take your allowed amount, and a few seconds after that, he'd repeat the robbery as long as he didn't take you for everything. In the case of game instruments, it is similar. Even at a bet of two or five crowns, the game runs fast and repeatedly behind and lose pay or benefits or revenue is a matter of moment. This limitation of betting was long overdue and applies to old slot machines, and it didn't change the facts, and we all see that virtually everyone who played here lost everything he had. Even if it takes longer than modern terminals, which will rob you of all property in a few minutes. The amendment to the law we are discussing here will change one thing: Players will spend a little more time in the game room. But for those addicts, there's no choice but to lose everything they've got, no matter how long. Thus, the law will do nothing about the very nature of the problem. Only an absolute nationwide ban on slot machines, lottery terminals and their internet variants can do that. For this variant, Úsvit has been lobbying here in the House for many months, but unfortunately we do not meet with majority support. And I repeat, there's not a lot of weak excuses that a ban doesn't solve anything. Yes, it's forbidden to murder -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u15	Mr President, I will interrupt you too and ask for peace again. I know that this is a serious subject and that you are interested and do not want to leave the House, but please let each speaker speak in peace. I'll wait a little longer... I'll wait a little longer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u16	And I repeat, there's not a lot of weak excuses that a ban doesn't solve anything. Yes, it's forbidden to murder and steal. And yet he kills and steals. But is it a reason to legalize and even parasite crimes on them? I don't think so. There's no parallels to prohibition in the United States. People burn liquor at home even now, and we Moravák know that domestic distilleries have been and will be, because they belong to Moravian culture, and no ban will wipe them out, because the vast majority of people are bothered by multiple times less than high taxes on domestic spirits. No one wants a secret illegal gambling parlor. In addition, addicted players themselves commit criminal activity. The police would always find out about the secret arcade within a few days. Therefore, the problem is not secret games, but online games on the Internet, which will be the biggest risk in the future. [[12.40 hours]] Finally, we will, of course, vote yes for this law. But we will continue to strive for a clear system solution, i.e. an absolute ban, a total ban on slot machines in the Czech Republic, and we will strive for it through you, political partners, and within the European Union. Parasites of human misfortune and addiction are not only immoral, but are not really paying off as a result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman Tomie Okamur. And now in the debate, because my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura expressed it in his point of fact, Mrs Olga Havlová, after her colleague Fichtner. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an amendment to the Lottery Act. I would like to say that I am very glad that the situation around slot machines is finally being addressed, which have a negative effect not only on pathologically dependent players but also on people close to them. Statistics show up to 17 unhappy people per gambler. They're life partners, parents, children, friends and creditors. The game is one of the basic human activities, which include learning logically to think, motor exercises and work. But for slot machines, it is not a tough effort to learn something or, for example, to learn something. in sports, but only about the risk of chance. Gambling and gambling addiction lead to financial problems, job loss, family breakdown, and suicide at worst. Pathological gambling is referred to as a typical non-material addiction, when the player tries to control the game repeatedly with motivation to get the money back. Most of the time, people who don't have it, lose social benefits, are unable to control the game, and do not accept the negative consequences of their actions. After the revolution, the Treasury issued permits for casino games without making any distinction as to whether it was really a casino or a gambling room. The operators of these facilities relied on greater tolerance on the part of the urban authorities on such a sumptuously called places. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic is one of the countries with the greatest ratio of slot machines per person. The municipality and the city parts, which received a local fee from the operating machine, now do not know how to cancel them. In such cases, the second proposed amendment should assist automatic cancellation within three months of the issuance of the prohibition of the municipality's decree. Many of you have certainly received an e-mail initiative that is trying to prevent these changes. It is played on our feelings when up to 60,000 jobs are to be lost linked to the lottery industry. When I compare this situation with the view that 82,000 people lost their jobs in agriculture, people who brought something positive, on the contrary, this lottery industry doesn't bring anything positive, this is not how I imagine it to create and create new jobs. On their website, they threaten to strike and count it for politicians in the autumn elections. I am also a municipal politician, and I do not think that citizens and voters in my community want slot machines instead of jobs. After all, a young man from our community became a murderer because of his addiction to vending machines. And that's just a drop in the sea of all the criminal acts that start and end with theft. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where gambling is taken for a disease. A disease that we can treat. Just like we're killing viruses and bacteria, all we have to do is cancel the slot machines. I'd like to know the only reason that slot machines are an asset. This activity is the possibility of obtaining decent profits from only some groups regardless of the impact, and it is not yet the will to prohibit this activity entirely. I have attended several gambling seminars, met people who not only fight gambling but also those whose lives the gambling has signed up for. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about when I enforce zero tolerance for gambling. Unification of betting limits on two crowns, five crowns in Czech gambling rooms and fifty crowns in the casino is a reasonable solution in a given situation where it is currently possible to lose at an interactive video lottery terminal up to hundreds of thousands in a few moments. If there is no complete avoidance of this activity, I will be grateful for every step that limits this activity, and I will certainly support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u19	Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová. A colleague, Fichtner, has now signed up for the debate. If you don't, I've noticed you. I respected that when you were sitting at the plaintiff's desk and the rapporteurs, you didn't sign up electronically. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment on what the rapporteur said. It was practically about two things in particular. The first was the question of the directive of the European Union, which I will still talk about, and the suspension of the work on the legislative proposal, and the second concerned the impending infringement, i.e. the infringement procedure of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As far as the directive is concerned, I have it here, everyone's referring to it, everyone's talking about it, so it would be good to see what's actually in the directive. When I look at Article 9 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 which is referred to in connection with the fact that we should suspend legislative work and not discuss this draft law, so Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council Commission Regulation (EC) No 98/34 of 22 June 1998 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations and rules for information society services, as well as the procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations and of rules for information society services. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1, i.e. notification. Once again: Member States shall postpone the adoption of the proposal. I mean, we haven't accepted the proposal yet, we have it at first reading. Adoption by a Member State means in our case that the proposal is approved by the Chamber of Deputies, approved by the Senate and signed by the President. Then the bill is passed or passed by law. We need not worry at all that we are acting contrary to the EU directive, because the EU directive says that we must not adopt the regulation within three months of it being notified. This is perfectly fine until the Member State, the Czech Republic, adopts the regulation, we have enough time. I asked the permanent representation of the Czech Republic to the EU for sure, it was 16. 5, and I got an answer that contains two basic things. One is the question of discussion at first reading. The answer came from the Director of Internal Market Section, the Director of the Internal Market Section, the Permanent Representation of the Czech Republic to the EU, and the information is that the proposal can, of course, be discussed in the meantime in the Chamber of Deputies, but sufficient time should be left for possible inclusion of comments from the European Commission or Member States. If the European Commission's comments are not incorporated, we are at risk of continuing infringement proceedings, which may end up with a fine for the Czech Republic. Yes, of course, we are exhibiting ourselves, but if it were only at the final stage when there would be insufficient time for the European Commission's comments to be incorporated. So there's nothing stopping us from discussing it at first reading, which is what we're doing. It's pointless to interrupt the first reading, so we can let him get away with it. [[12.50 hours]] But what is important, or what is also interesting, is precisely the question of infringement, i.e. the infringement procedure. And I may surprise you because the infringement proceedings have already begun with us by the European Commission. However, not because of this proposal, but because of long-term unsolved poor quality legislation in the field of lotteries. What's going on? Basically, the aim of this Directive is to protect the internal market, i.e. throughput of goods and services within the European Union. And when you look into the Czech Lottery Act, the Czech Lottery Act, with the exception of some specific types of gambling, concerns, I think, casinos, does not allow foreign ownership of gambling operators. Of course, that has its advantages, its disadvantages. We're closing the market. On the other hand, there is no risk of arbitrage, that is also true. However, this seems unacceptable from the point of view of European law, and for this reason the European Union has sent us a complaint, thus formally initiating infringement proceedings. As far as the specific dates are concerned, this infringement procedure was initiated on 21. 11. 2013, i.e. when it was just after the election. That means there's no way to blame a new political garniture for this. The guilt is probably on the side of that precipitous political garniture. I wouldn't even blame Rusnokův's government for that, because it was more like maintenance. Rather, I would blame colleagues here on my right, especially the absent ex-minister of finances Kalousek, who should have made sure that the proceedings were not initiated, so that we simply... that the state of our legislation in the area of lottery is in line with what the European Union is asking us to do. So much for infringement. Again, it has already started, not because of this proposal, but because of the poor quality of Czech lottery legislation. So much for that, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u21	I thank Mr Matěj Fichtner. Mr Pavel Plzák and then Mr Adamec with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u22	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues. There's a problem, and we all have an honest effort sitting here, doing something about the problem. But I would just like to respond in a simple way, or use such an approach to the performance of my colleague Havlová. A famous Woods, Tiger Tiger, was diagnosed with a severe addiction to sex. This guy's being treated, I hope he's successfully, but that doesn't mean that if he happens to visit our republic, we'll put all the women in jail. I just can't imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Marta Semelová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u24	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. My colleague Plzák made it a little easier. I have to say for myself that I am the mayor of the 32,000th city, where there are 32 places where there is a winning slot machine, and problems always arise before elections, when a group of people just suddenly start collecting signatures for petitions. You need to close it, destroy it - it's just the right topic at the right time. On the other hand, I say I am not against gambling regulation, they are deeply mistaken. But you need to look at it a little differently and take your mind off things. You see, I disagree with President Okamura that full prohibition will solve this. In the end, we all know how we can just bypass the law today that it's private spaces, places where there's weak state police. It's just the city police aren't gonna do anything but go to these places where they're not gonna let them go. And definitely those people who go there to play, they won't say there's a playroom, just in case the police push them to be witnesses or something. In the end, the game room can be moved very quickly. And the fact that these black arcades are created is complete. [[unintelligible]] From this place, I want to warn against complete prohibition, because historical experience says full prohibition always brings something completely different from what the petitioners intended. I remember pictures from the '20s of America, when such corpolent ladies used to walk around restaurants and break whiskey barrels because their husbands at work just went to the whiskey. Because when I looked at the ladies, I understood them. To survive at home, they stopped at the pub and it was for them to survive. But I don't want to go into this, I don't want to marginalize the problem, because it actually exists here, and I think with the ongoing digitalization and virtualization of the world, the problem will get bigger and bigger, because we all know that playing is as old as humanity itself. As much as alcohol is old as humanity itself. By the way, for those morons who say gambling is the biggest problem in this state, I say it isn't. The biggest problem is alcoholism and drug addiction. By the way, statistics say 11.1 times more is a drinking problem than gamblers. It's just reality. But I have one thing to say. You know, I feel like we're going about this all wrong. We're just trying to regulate the arcade. I don't have anything against room regulation, I think it's okay, but we forgot the other side of the coin, and that's the players. I think they need to regulate the players. How is it possible when someone comes to the game room in America and takes social support, or as they call it, the owner or casino operator will require his driver's license because they don't have any other documents, and if they find out he's a beneficiary of such a state benefit, they won't just let him into the casino or the place where it's played, but they'll send the state or local police to him, and they'll even lock him up and the judge will let him go in three days. And it goes on with him, of course, because a man like that has nothing to do with the game room. Even as far as the lotteries, the Internet or video are concerned, four U.S. states have actually put in place a license for players. They must have a license to play. I mean, he doesn't get a license who's on welfare or who's a recognized gambler. I think that's the way to go. Yes, I say we limit the gamble we don't like. Of course, in different places in different parts of the Republic, it is different, but that is only because we threw it at the municipalities, which have relatively few powers in this case, the repressive ones, very few. But let's focus on the players, too, because I don't think there's anything easier. But I fear that personal data protection, personality protection, is modern here in Europe. Human rights will come first. 'Cause what's stopping us from going to the arcade tonight anyways is gonna have to show some ID. Even in those casinos, there's cameras. Not from the title to watch who comes in there, but from the title so the people who go in there don't steal from them, and they don't agree with the croupier that they're gonna agree on a win-win. I apologize for these expressions. But the thing is, if he presents his ID card and they get into the database, whether he's a beneficiary or not, if he's ever had gambling problems, it's a clear matter of how not to let this guy go. I'll tell you one more case that bothered us here years ago. I'm sure you all remember the E55. You remember the problems with the light ladies who were waving specially to the movable Bavarian tourists in the Bavarians. Some were less weak, some might have been from the former GDR, and they all handled it with some decrees, sanctions, bans, orders. The effect is very low. And you know what happened? They weren't customers, they weren't easy bitches. I think this is the right way. Let's limit the players, and those games we say are too many, they just don't survive. By the way, when I was talking about alcoholism, are we going to do this by shutting down our pubs, too? I don't think so. This is where it happened, but we're somewhere else. We're in parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u25	I thank Mr Adamc. I have here factual remarks - by electronic means Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, then Mr. Jandák, and I will not give you a word because it is 12.59 and you have two minutes to comment. So I'm going to interrupt the meeting by 2:30 p.m., and the first one with a point of fact will be a colleague of mine, Zlatuška. Enjoy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u26	Good afternoon, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. I wish you a good time after lunch. We'll continue with point 9. Before we do, however, allow me to present the excuses we have. First of all, Mr Jiří Holeček apologizes today between 14.30 and 18.00 for reasons of work, President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček apologizes from 14.00 today because of negotiations outside the PSP building, and Mr Urban apologizes from this afternoon's meeting, and Mr Korte apologises from 14.30 to 17.00 today, and Mr Fiala apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day. [[It's a note that's gone.: Fiala Peter.]] That's an apology, and we'll go back to point number one. Nine, which is an amendment to the Lottery Act. We are in the general debate, when I first have a factual point here which we should continue, Mr Jiří Zlatuška. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u27	Mr President, colleagues, I am very sorry for what I am about to do. It's unedagogical, especially I apologize to anyone with pedagogical education. I shouldn't be doing this, but I applied before lunch in response to what my colleague Adamec said. The passage he was thinking about seeing those American women smashing their men's drinks, and he pulled it up to what they looked like. It was nasty and sexist. It's not supposed to be done. But at the same time, I acknowledge that I should have said this complaint before the break, and now there is another President, after whom it is complicated to report, and I am aware that not only Mr Adamec is already at an age where it probably does not make sense, and also with that time-limit that it also misses the effect. But still, let's not do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u28	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. With another factual remark here I have written by Mr Jandák, who I do not see. [[Mr Jandak is in his position to say that he is giving up in favour of Mr Birke.]] Mr Jandák surrenders in favour of fellow Member Birke. I thank Mr Jandák. Now, Mr. Birke. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u29	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Jandák. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, my dear government, I am sorry, I hope that my performance will not be so disconcerting. Anyway, I'm gonna try to make that noise a little louder. As I listen to the debate here, I must say that I do not wish to recommend anything to anyone, but maybe I would like to ask you and invite my fellow representatives, mayors, city councillors, to do more work here on the issue of gambling, because we ourselves may best know how it works or does not work. A few notes. Today, cities have a whole range of regulatory things where they can regulate gambling. There are cities that have completely shut it down, there are cities that have limited it, and there are cities that don't want to do it at all, because, in short, they have some background funds. I would like to follow up on what he said - through you - a colleague of Mr Mayor Trutnov, a fellow Member of Ivan Adamec. Maybe more than those regulators, I'd focus on the people who play there because then I'm asking, "What about the homeless or the people who are homeless?" What will happen to people who are inadaptable? Because they all meet at the vending machine on the 25th, when they get a shot, they throw it in. But do you know what the problem is? We don't have any money. You give them a ticket, I already talked about it here last time, send yourself a subpoena because they have nothing. [[Response to the note from the diaper:]] That's right. And to make matters worse, everyone will apply to you at City Hall with a permanent residence. I can read you text messages, e-mails, MMS from the cities involved, and not just mine, but a whole series. So please listen more to the mayor, because they're very involved. I don't give any instructions on what to do with it. I'm just commenting on the current situation and please in the words of the classic: Let's not teach eagles to fly. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u30	Thank you, Mr Birke. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Pilný after him. [[Reparation from the diaper.]] Free, excuse me, I apologise to the honourable Member, he's not Pilný, he's volný, please don't be mad. Thank you. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u31	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to apologize from this point of view for insulting Mr Zlatuška's gentleness. I won't do it again. However, the analogy was really merely an analogy; it was not intended specifically for any lady. And it was meant to make us realize what this situation in America has done for the next 60-70 years. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u32	I thank Mr Adamc. With another factual remark - please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just like to respond to my two previous speakers. I want to assure you that the ideas that fell here, both from my colleague and from you, some of the players' registrations, and actually from the other side - of course, it's very clever. I just want to point out that this is an amendment that should address the worst that is now and which can quickly be corrected in some way. We want to prepare, and we have promised it in the electoral program, and we have it in the coalition agreement, that we will prepare a new lottery law, where we are going to exterminate all this and make a really new, modern law that will use all these things, and we will certainly work with it. After the adoption of this amendment, we're gonna stop those brutal losers from losing to one-timers and all that total player euphoria. And, of course, they're going to leave the smaller locations of the vending machines or the winning terminals, because they're just not going to pay off the innkeepers, the little ones. But it doesn't solve the whole problem. The problem will be solved by a new law that will begin to prepare itself, and we will certainly work with it on the subcommittee on taxes and lottery, we will have a wide discussion across all political parties, we will communicate with all operators of the various games to make it work so that it is good, acceptable and functional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u34	Thank you, honourable Member. If I do not see any further factual point, please, Mr rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u35	I won't have a factual one, as rapporteur, I can speak at any time, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u36	As rapporteur, you can speak at any time, please, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u37	Allow me just a brief comment on the previous discussion. I would just like to point out that in my speech on the notification process, I was mainly based on the first two letters sent to the Chamber of Deputies from the Ministry of Finance as Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš of 7. 4. as well as Deputy Minister of Finance Ondřej Závodský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u38	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, the noise level in the room is too high. Please, especially known jammers, to interrupt their interference and calm down, I will not look at anyone specifically - yet. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u39	Deputy Minister Ondřej Závodský of 22. 5. 2014 here reference was made to Directive 98/34/EC and reference was made to the danger to the Czech Republic to initiate infringement proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is not my fault that the notification process was not initiated earlier, because, as I once said in my first speech, this proposal is not actually parliamentary, but - how should I put it? - in fact actually ministerial, because it was created in the workshop of Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Ondřej Závodský, where I personally saw him 21. 3rd of this year. Only then was it submitted through fellow Members, the petitioners. It's a strange way to make draft laws. The way I see it would be better if it were submitted in the form of a government proposal and was subjected to proper commentary proceedings. When the Deputy Director did so. If the Deputy Minister had done so, we would have had this critical or discussed notification process long ago. I would still - however, as I have said here, I will not propose to interrupt this point here, but I will propose, or, at this point, I would like to propose that the time limit for the hearing be set for 90 days in order to give sufficient time for discussion in committees and subcommittees for lotteries, as is mostly stated in the last letter of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u40	I thank Mr Šincl. I'm filing his motion to extend the deadline to 90 days. Another proper application is submitted by Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, we can argue and scream about who needs to be punished, if gamblers, if employees, if operators, but that doesn't mean we're gonna put eye blinders before the problem that's real here, and that's that gambling, gambling, just flooded a lot of cities. Prague comes first in the Czech Republic. And I guess we don't have to convince ourselves that pathological gambling is a big problem that affects many families. Finally, it has been said here in previous performances, it is often associated with different kinds of other addictions, such as drugs and others, and it is subject to ever younger people, even children. You don't become a pathology player from day to day. It's a gradual and rather inconspicuous process. Unlike an alcoholic or a tox screen, the gambler for the neighborhood has long been inconspicuous, often even the nearest family has no idea that its loved ones have fallen into gambling and gambling addiction. The time during which a person becomes a pathological player is different, it usually takes one to three years. In adolescents whose brain is more prone to these addictions, the course is much faster. Sometimes even a few weeks or months are enough. There are more and more in the psychiatric hospital, and underage children appear more and more. The number of hospitalized patients aged 15 to 19 years is increasing. Three percent of 16-year-olds play more than once a week. I think they are children and young people who need to be protected. Let me give you some more details. When it comes to suicides, in the general population, one and a half percent, it's five percent for players. The younger people start playing, the more people commit suicide. The death rate of gamblers measured with the death of a population of the same age is double. Seventy percent of pathological players have psychological consequences. There's no way I want to defend the players with these numbers, I don't want to defend the gamblers. I'm just telling you the numbers that are just a document of how dangerous this addiction is for young people. Pathological gambling is associated with a number of negative phenomena such as problems in work and family life. It has already been said that one gambler will cause problems to up to 17 people in the neighborhood. Lies, thefts, huge debts, often the player can borrow money directly in the game room, sign a debt note here. And even if it's forbidden, it just doesn't follow, and a guy in a rush does whatever it takes to get money for another game. Enforcement, homelessness, the occurrence of troubled people around the halls, drugs, crime, vandalism, disturbing public order, peace of mind. It's all connected to gambling and gambling. The cure, as we know, is very expensive. The problem with us in the Czech Republic is extreme accessibility. There is no need to overcome any barrier, yet if you talk to patients or cured gamblers, you will learn that these patients themselves demand to close the gambling rooms. The problem is misleading advertising of gambling, it is pointed out in the end by Chief Nešpor, a well-known expert. Indeed, our offer is very high compared to European countries. In the Czech Republic, the number of slot machines and video terminals increased in the last quarter of 2013. At the end of December there were 61 026, while in September it was one and a half thousand less. In 2011, if I go back because the statistics are backwards, the Čech have planted CZK 127 billion. In 2012, it was already 135,5 billion. There are 168,000 people in the risk group, i.e. those who could fail gambling. As for the capital, where the number of halls is particularly high, I think here is proof that uniform rules need to be adopted, because the methodology of distribution of money in the capital is such that it divides for the city's parts of money so that the greater the number of individual video terminals, gambling rooms, casinos, the longer the time of operation, the more money these urban parts receive, because, and it is justified by the fact that they have more crime and need to deal with it. In my opinion, this method is completely perverted, and it only demotes the mayor of the city parts to prevent gambling more. This is also consistent with the views of the people who write to us, who call us, to do everything possible to make gambling more repressed. There are referendums in various urban areas to ban gambling, to ban gambling at all. Personally, I've known a large number of gamblers - cured and untreated. Those who have been through treatment and over and over and over have relapsed and can't deal with it in any way. [[14.50 hours]] So I would like to conclude by saying that I am personally in favour of zero tolerance of gambling, but because I know that at this point there is no support for zero tolerance, I will certainly support every effort, every step to limit gambling as much as possible. That is why I support the proposal tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u42	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. With another proper application, Mr Zdeněk Soukup is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u43	Mr President, colleagues, I will raise my hand for the bill tabled by my colleague Fichtner and support him very much and with great taste. So will I raise my hand for any other meaningful restriction on gambling. In the regulation of technical gaming equipment, as the different simple bandits submitter newly defines, it is not only the instruments themselves, it is the gambling rooms itself. They often serve as a gallery base today. In northwestern Bohemia, they usually run gambling halls like bars with games and guesthouses with nonstop regime mostly foreigners. The permanent staff is made up of pimps, prostitutes, drug dealers and street thieves. The fact that some of the people in socially excluded groups are losing gifts from our taxes is only one evil. There's a disturbance around the halls, crime and disorder are spreading. Most people who normally go to work and take care of their family avoid gambling. So far, political safeguards and governments have not helped the town halls to crowd out gambling, rather the other way around. At least one decree was attacked by the Ministry of the Interior for having no support in the law. He admits many interpretations. Is that intention or the bad work of former legislation? For example, the Ministry of the Interior canceled a decree in Ostrov near Karlovy Vary or in Cheb when the councilmen wanted to ban gambling halls that are less than 100 meters from schools, churches and cultural facilities. The law allows such a ban, but with reservations. In Ashi, they did not enforce a decree against the Ministry of the Interior, according to which the arcade should not have signposts to the upper street. At the same time, the current Act No. 202/1990 Coll. It also does not allow visible advertising. It is, however, a definition of what advertising is and what a signboard is. The biggest blow under the belt was the practice of authorising slot machines. The municipalities, video terminals, electronic roulettes and other instruments of the new generation were decided on by the Ministry of Finance. The cracks in the law were used by the Ministry, and abundantly. Where the municipality banned older devices, the Ministry of Finance allowed them much safer and new and to a greater extent. The petitioner mentions in his explanatory report the preparatory work on a completely new comprehensive regulation of the operation of betting rooms. I hope that this will go much further than the present proposal by Mr Fichtner, for which I thank him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u44	I thank Mr Soukup. With another proper application, Mr Karel Fiedler is prepared. - Excuse me, I apologize to the honourable Member. First of all, with Mrs Černochová's factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to turn a little against what has now been said by my previous speaker, because the former governments modified the Lottery Act and other similar games in 2010 in a very fundamental way. I am one of the co-authors of this proposal, and as mayor of the Prague 2 district, I can say that I have been in favour of absolutely zero tolerance to gambling since 2007. First we limited the winning instruments, then the law in 2010 gave us the opportunity to limit the video lottery terminals. So it's not true what was said here that the former government wasn't trying to do something about this negative phenomenon. If that were the case, the mayors of cities and municipalities today would not have jurisdiction, just as we have in Prague, to regulate gambling on their territory. About what was said here by Mrs Semelová. Perhaps this sounds strange, on a lot of matters I agree with Mrs Semelová in this regard, perhaps just two exceptions. There's no cured gambler, there's only an abstinent gambler. And as for the fact that Prague should regulate the rules so that it is valid for all parts as well, I think it is not, because at the moment it is quite okay that when we have two municipal elections here, we are elected as mayor of the city, that we will simply decide freely whether or not we want to have these businesses on our territory. We in Prague 2 have already decided in 2007 that we do not want to have a business of this type. But I can't imagine that this should be dealt with across the board, because I understand that mayor of the outskirts of the city is again on the periphery, where there may be some reasons for that - that for two vending machines in a restaurant, a municipal water supply will be repaired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u46	Thank you, ma'am. With another factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. After that, with a proper application, Mr Fiedler. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u47	Thank you for the floor. I would follow up on this grim vision that my previous speaker, Mr Soukup, introduced here. I would give the truth to my previous speaker, Mrs Černochová - not in zero tolerance, but in the fact that today municipalities can actually limit the operation of the games halls, as we did in Louny. I'm still going to speak in a proper debate, but here I really want to say that we've limited the playing hours. We have been able to prevent shields and banners in a way that is generally binding by decree. This means that it is indeed also for the work of municipal councils, not only on the state. We did it in Louny. Maybe not in Ashi. Maybe they don't work there that well, I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u48	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Igor Jakubčík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, we banned gambling machines in Klatovy. No problem. There were 237 video-lotery terminals left, and 93 citizens had a lottery video machine coming out of our system. We also banned these decrees, the Ministry canceled. The Constitutional Court has ruled that we have the right to ban it. We forbid it. That means there are no winning lottery terminals in Klatovy. Everything goes when you want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u50	I thank Mr Jakubčík for his message. Everything really works when you want to. Now, with the proper application, Mr Fiedler. He can do it if he wants to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u51	Yes, I really agree with that. There's a lot going on when you want to. I would follow up on my previous speakers, who took my thoughts, which I wanted to share here, a little out of my mouth. First of all, Mrs Semelová, then he was Mr Soukup. One of my supporters visited me in my regional parliamentary office, and when we started discussing things together, we just came up with the problem of these halls, because he's a man who's employed in a playroom as a waitress. So he was telling me stories that were going on. And if some wonder that Tomio Okamura is proposing zero tolerance, and he's not alone in this, there's more to it than that. I didn't realize it at the first moment when the person in question told me, but when I thought about it, I had to logically give him the truth. We used to have a lot of bazaars and pawnshops that - and I realized it - somehow disappeared off those streets. And they disappeared into those halls. It's just what happened earlier under some control - I'm really saying some sort of control - in those pawnshops, so it's happening at the arcade nowadays absolutely without control. You know, like, all these pussies, something to pawn, take the money, lose it at the vending machine, so it's all connected to one place. It's already been heard from one of my previous speakers, not the only ailment that goes with the arcade. Another ailment he mentioned is the distribution of drugs in these places. They're convenient places, they're usually black, they're dark, they don't see much. [[15.00 hours]] Next up, prostitution. So these arcades are kind of a accumulation of crime, a accumulation of vices. Here I see that some colleagues are acting strangely. So I have this information from the person who's there - I don't know what I should be doing advertising, Mr. Colleague. [[Comments from the O.R.]] But I will continue my speech. If we're proposing that tolerance really be as low as possible or preferably zero, I really agree with that. And I welcome what my fellow Member Volný has proposed here, and I also join you as a member of the Lottery subcommittee, that a comprehensive proposal should be prepared to address this. In this I really see the solution, because if, as has been said here, one city office or district bans these games and in others it stays, right, they can also ban it, so the players logically move. One city district gets the money, the other pays for it. I really intercede for this to be dealt with across the board, and I welcome - once again - the proposal from my fellow Member, Volný, to work on a comprehensive proposal that will address this comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u52	I thank Mr Fiedler. With the last proper application, Mr Michal Kučera is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u53	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Birke has called for representatives to be more involved in the discussion. So I'm going to be speaking here as a representative and councilman of Louny City. I would like to point out here that the issue, in simple terms, is perceived very differently in regions where gambling rooms are linked to crime and other negative phenomena, and in municipalities where these negative phenomena associated with gambling are minimal or are not at all none. We in Louny went the way of the regulation of operating time. We have banned the operation of the halls in daily hours and are playing from 8:00 p.m. evening. This step has proved to be correct and the city has no major problems with the running of the halls. I also have to mention - I will speak specifically - the contribution to the city budget. We have significantly strengthened the city budget thanks to changes in the tax revenues from the lotteries pushed through by the Minister of Finance Kalousek. In Louny, we have also divided 16 million in excess of the current budget last year. The koruna, according to the key of 50 percent of this yield, means 8 million. CZK, youth sport, 25 per cent into the social area and 25 per cent into the culture, and I note that this is beyond the normal budget. This means that the organisations have lost 16 million in excess of their current budget. extra crowns. On the other hand, there are municipalities in the Ústí Region, where due to the high level of negative phenomena associated with the operation of the halls, my colleagues from TOP 09, representatives from TOP 09, banned zero tolerance and games in the territory of the municipality, even knowing that the city's budget will then be poorer. This process of regulation or total prohibition has not been easy until now. He has been associated with a number of administrative and judicial proceedings, the municipal decrees have recently referred to the very founding of the Constitutional Court. For these reasons, I welcome the fact that the new Lottery Act is not a path of gross zero tolerance, but gives the municipalities the opportunity to adjust the operating hours of the gambling rooms or the operation of the gambling rooms where it is necessary, and where it is necessary to prohibit this operation altogether. I consider the whole republic's zero tolerance to be mere populist screams. Let us address this situation in our municipalities and in the Chamber of Deputies let us give these municipalities an instrument so that they can address this situation effectively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u54	I thank Mr Kučer. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. There is no such person, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the final words of the appellant or rapporteur. Please, Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank you for a very substantive discussion and again ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u56	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I do not see a request for the proposal to be returned to the applicant for completion. [[Ambassador Fichtner is still reporting.]] Please, Mr. plaintiff. As you wish, your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u57	Thank you. I apologise, Mr President, however, for the form I agree with extending the time limit for committee discussions for the period proposed by the rapporteur here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u58	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Anyone else have a suggestion? Not even Mr Blažek? No. Excellent. We will therefore vote on the commandment submitted to the Committee on Budgets. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. Oh, after all, I'm sorry, I forgot Mrs. Semelová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u59	I suggest we order the Social Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-003-009.u60	Thank you. So I have two suggestions for the commandment. If no one really has another proposal, we will vote on the proposal from the Organising Committee to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this motion for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? I also ask confused Members to press the button. Thank you. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 131, against none. The proposal was ordered for discussion by the Committee on Budgets. Next, Mrs Semelová's proposal to order this bill to be discussed by the Committee on Social Policy. I am opening the vote on this proposal by Mrs Semelová. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? 152 Members and Members registered, for 51, against 47. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that the proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Budgets. We will also vote on the rapporteur's proposal, Mr Šincl, to extend the deadline for 90 days, which the appellant agrees to. I am opening the vote on this proposal so that the time limit for the hearing is extended to 90 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? 153 Members and Members are registered, for 134, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this bill has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Budgets and the deadline for discussion has been extended to 90 days, which concludes the first reading of this bill. I thank both the rapporteur and the appellant. Now, let's look at the point.
