ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 /German press 331/ - first reading I will ask the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, to present this press. At the rapporteur's table, the President of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Votava, is already sitting as rapporteur. Now the Minister of Finance has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft Act on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015, which was approved by the Government on 22 September 2014. The basic information submitted by the draft State Budget Act for 2015 is presented in this form. Revenue from the state budget of 1,118,5 billion. CZK 1,285 billion, state budget expenditure. Kč. The balance of the state budget minus 100 billion. Kč. A government deficit of 100 billion is proposed for 2015. CZK, which is about 12 billion. CZK less than the approved deficit for 2014. Comparison with the approved outlook for 2015 is a reduction in deficit by even 20 billion. Kč. The share of government deficit in GDP of ESA 95 is expected to be 2,3% for 2015 without the Gripen problem. Let me now sum up the basic macroeconomic indicators that influenced the draft state budget for 2015. According to available data, the Czech economy remains in a negative production gap, but now with a vision of its abandonment in 2015. Economic performance increased in the first half of this year mainly due to growth in consumption and investment, i.e. due to the recovery of domestic demand. The sustainability and intensity of growth will depend both on the stability and economic dynamics of the Czech economy's external environment and on adequate economic policies respecting the economic cycle. The world economy continues to grow slightly and in developed countries the situation after the shocks that have occurred in the last six years has calmed down. The economic performance of the euro area in the second quarter of this year has fallen slightly behind expectations. And while government bond interest rates are falling to maturity, there are still negative fundamental factors, especially high government debt. Moreover, there is an increased risk of escalating adverse geopolitical events that could potentially disrupt the global boom. The Czech economy will grow in 2014; it will grow similarly in 2015. The Czech economy accelerated the recovery of its performance at the turn of 2013-14, when the quarter-on-quarter growth rate of real gross value added was reported in excess of 1%. However, this development was largely influenced by one-off or temporary factors such as low benchmark base, extremely warm winter, improved drawdown of funds from the EU fund or a positive effect of weakening the koruna exchange rate on exports and demand for selected goods. [[9.40 hours]] For the whole year 2014, real GDP will rise by about 2.7 percent. Growth will be given from more than three quarters of domestic demand. In 2015, we expect a similar growth profile and intensity with GDP growth of about 2,5 percent. The exchange rate as the only upside factor in 2014, the increase in inflation in 2015. Given the negative production gap, the koruna exchange rate is likely to be the only major upside factor in 2014. Unlike previous years, administrative effects, in particular the reduction in electricity prices, would have an anti-inflationary effect throughout this year. The average inflation rate will thus reach only 0.6% this year. The rising demand should push the average inflation rate up to the inflation target in 2015. That's up to 2 percent. Stabilization in the labour market and decrease in unemployment rates in 2014 and 2015. Despite several years of unfavourable economic development, the rate of economic activity and employment increased. This is partly related to changes in the demographic structure and also to a higher level of use of shorter jobs. Together with the revival of the economy, we expect improvements in the development of unemployment rates. On the annual average, it should reach 6.4 per cent for 2014 and fall slightly further in 2015 to 6.1 per cent. Current account surplus in 2014 and its settlement in 2015. The development of the current balance of payments account in the form of its deficit in the long term does not pose any risks to the Czech economy. In 2013, it amounted to only 1.4 % of GDP and was financed by surpluses in a financial account. In the context of the development of our trading partners' economies and the growth of price competition, the capacity to weaken the koruna is expected to increase the growth of both export markets and export performance. For this reason, we expect even a slight surplus of the current account balance in 2014 and then, in 2015, its substantially balanced value. More detailed information on the expected development of the Czech economy in 2014 and 2015 as well as estimates of relevant macroeconomic indicators are provided in Part A of the budgetary documentation. The Horizon for 2017 is a medium-term perspective. The Ministry of Finance continuously closely monitors the forecasts and opinions of the institutions mostly of the private sphere dealing with macroeconomic analysis and forecasting. Based on the comparison with these independent forecasts, it can be concluded that the macroeconomic framework of the draft State budget for 2015 is very close to the consensus macroeconomic forecasts based on these institutions' opinion. I would now like to introduce you in more detail to some of the titles of the revenue pages of the state budget in the proposal for 2015. Revenue from taxes and charges is estimated at 575.1 billion. Crowns. Tax revenue for 2015 is based on current tax collections and predicted macroeconomic data and is increasing by 12.6 billion compared to the 2014 budget. The simple tax quota, which covers only tax revenue of tax budgets, amounts to 19.3%. The combined tax quota, which includes income from social security premiums, the contribution to state employment policy and the revenue from compulsory health insurance premiums, amounts to 34.6 % of GDP. The tax revenue includes a gradual increase in the tax advantage per second, third and other child. The tax advantage for 2015 for the second child is CZK 200 per month and CZK 300 per month. Furthermore, a reduction in the VAT rate for medicines, books and irreplaceable children's diet of 10 per cent was claimed. As of 2015, the three VAT rates will be in force, which is 21, 15 and 10 %. For working pensioners, the application of the discount to the taxpayer is introduced, the possibility to deduct the amount of CZK 24,840 per year. This discount can be applied from August 2014. The budgetary determination of taxes does not change for 2015. The amendment to Act No.243/2000 Coll., on budgetary determination of taxes, is expected from 1 January 2016. Revenue from social security contributions and contributions to state employment policy is budgeted at 400.7 billion. CZK and represent a year-on-year increase against expected recovery by 4,6 %. Revenue from the budget of the European Union and the financial mechanisms shall be included in the budget by an amount of 87.8 billion. Crowns. This is in particular revenue from the Structural Funds of the European Union and the Cohesion Fund for the implementation of the joint programmes of the European Union and the Czech Republic, and revenue for the implementation of the measures under the common agricultural policy. In the draft budget for 2015, revenue from state-owned enterprises in the range of over 8 billion, namely Forests, Budějovický Budvar and from the privatisation account to compensate for the deficit of the pension system of 16,5 billion. Comparison of the draft budget for 2015 with the budgets of the previous governments. The state budget's investments will grow year on year next year. In recent years, although investments budgeted as higher, they have remained underdeveloped on a regular basis and, moreover, no one has taken into account their effectiveness. The government's aim is to put an end to this past practice of inconsistent spending, and, on the contrary, to finally start investing in really needed projects, e.g. to transport infrastructure. It can be assumed that even in 2015, expenditure will be increased over the course of the year by unused expenditure from previous years. There has been considerable waste in the field of research and development in the past, e.g. giant centres without guaranteed funding and sustainability and without clear and verifiable results. On the contrary, the government's priority is to promote such spending into science and research, which will lead to proven and long-term benefits for the Czech economy. Total operating expenditure without salary expenditure is falling by approximately 3 billion compared to the 2014 budget. CZK 1.3 billion is falling against the 2013 state budget. crowns, even though e.g. expenditure on military operations - not only in the context of the Ukrainian crisis - is growing. As regards the structural deficit, in the official fiscal outlook of May 2013, the previous political government envisaged a substantially higher structural balance for 2014, 2015 and 2016 minus 1,8 % in 2014, minus 2,1% in 2015 and minus 2,4 % in 2016. The current plan is therefore significantly more economical. The current and macroeconomic forecasts of the Ministry of Finance for 2014 expect a deficit of less than 1,2 per cent, with a deficit of less than 1,8 per cent in 2015, and a deficit of less than 1.7 per cent in 2016. The total expenditure of the state budget is increased year on year due to the promotion of population consumption in the form of e.g. increasing pensions, payments to health care or the salaries of teachers or police officers. On the contrary, the economic policy of past governments has led to an economic downturn, a decline in real income, mainly by socially weaker groups and a decline in household consumption. The state budget deficit is, however, due to current government policy this year, e.g. better tax collection, significantly lower than the budgeted one, up to 30 billion. Crowns. Deficit for 2015 of 100 billion. is also lower than the deficit proposed last year by the previous government. A proposal to cut expenses of 20 billion. would necessarily mean reducing pensions or payments to health care, etc. Now let me give you a closer look at the expenditure of the State budget for 2015. On the expenditure side of the budget is one of the most important expenditures monitored by the state budget. For 2015, they are budgeted at 713,4 billion. and account for 58.5% of the total expenditure of the State budget. Among the most important mandatorial expenditures are social mandatorial expenditures, whose limits are as follows. Expenditure on pensions is budgeted at 394.8 billion. CZK with annual growth of 1.6% compared to expected reality. From 2015 onwards, the revision of the Valorisation Scheme, which was approved in a narrow form for the years 2013 to 2015, will be revised and only one third of the consumer price growth and one third of the wage growth will be taken into account in the clearance of pensions. With effect from 1 January 2015, consumer price growth will be fully taken into account in the valuation of pensions and one third of wage growth will be taken into account. [[9.50 hours]] The annualisation for 2015 will be higher in order to compensate the pensioners in part and reduce the valorisation of pensions in 2013 and 2014. The increase in the average old-age pension in 2015 should be CZK 200, which represents an increase in pensions of 1.8 percent. Expenditure on sickness insurance benefits will continue to increase in the context of wage growth derived from them and the development of morbidity to an estimated amount of 24.1 billion. Kč. Expenditure on welfare benefits, including foster care, is proposed in a volume of 40.4 billion. CZK and for the benefits of assistance in material distress in the amount of 12.2 billion. Kč. Expenditure on care allowance for 2015 is expected to amount to 21 billion. Kč. The proposal for expenditure on the payment of unemployment aid amounts to 11 billion. CZK and against 2014 increase by 2.8 %. Subsidy for social services pursuant to Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, are budgeted in the amount of 7.9 billion. CZK and compared to 2014 there was an increase of 0.5 billion, which is 6.8%. 750 million are budgeted to raise salaries in social services. Kč. Expenditure on active employment policy is budgeted at 3 billion. CZK without funds from the European Union. After counting expenditure on prefinancing of European Union projects, these expenditures represent 6,7 billion. Kč. For the payment of the State to the health insurance scheme, budgetary appropriations of 62,2 billion are available. Kč. Since 1 July 2014, the State's payment for state insured persons to the public health insurance scheme has been increased. This is an increase in the monthly payment per insured person by CZK 58 per month to a total of CZK 787 per person. I would now like to mention other expenditure areas of the state budget. Expenditure on salaries and other payments for the work carried out by the State's organisational units and the wage costs of the contribution organisations shall be budgeted at 139 billion for 2015. CZK and against 2014 increased by 6.5 billion. The budgeted average salary is CZK 25,878. 3.5 percent of annual growth is included in salaries, which is 4.4 billion. CZK for all groups of employees, in the case of employees rewarded under the Labour Code and the Service Act, in the case of professional soldiers and in the case of members of the security forces, and in addition 1.5 percent of annual salary growth, that is a total of 1 billion. CZK to solve problems of armed forces, career regulations, service law and age machine. Except for parliamentary chapters. The salary increase of 1% is proposed for constitutional officials. The most significant salary increase, by 9.9 %, is due to the salaries of prosecutors and judges, in particular due to the increase in the salary base for the calculation of salaries. For prosecutors it is 2.7 times and for judges it is three times the average salary in the non-business sphere on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. The payment appropriations for European Union projects and programmes, including technical assistance, cover revenue from the budget of the European Union and financial mechanisms, amounting to 1.51 billion, are also included in the remuneration expenditure. CZK, and related one-off increase in the number of employees by 2 688. Expenditure on research, development and innovation is included in the total amount of 34,9 billion. including EU funds. The share of these GDP expenditure for 2015 will reach 0,83%. The expenditure on the common agricultural policy is budgeted at 38,8 billion. Kč. The largest item consists of direct payments to which an amount of 24,5 billion is allocated. Kč. Area of education and sport. Expenditure on salaries was increased in connection with the expected increase in the number of pupils in the primary education segment by 300 million. CZK and further increase in expenditure by 300 million. CZK to pay compensation to teachers and other school staff in the first 14 days of temporary incapacity for work. The programme Development of teaching capacities of primary and kindergartens established by local authorities is intended to cover an amount of 200 million. Kč. For the construction of primary schools in the area of large cities, expenditures of 400 million are intended. Kč. There is a total budget expenditure of 3.1 billion for sport. Kč. An increase of 800 million is also included in this amount. CZK to support sports representation and general sports activities. In addition to activities at regional and municipal level, this means physical unity and sports clubs, the construction of national Olympic centres will also be supported. Field of culture. The subsidies for film incentives for the State Cinematography Fund are budgeted at 500 million. Kč. The National Cultural Treasure Care Program has been strengthened by 1 billion. Kč. Expenditure on the promotion of live art in connection with extraordinary anniversaries and events for 2015 to 2017 and expenditure on the promotion of cultural monuments has been increased. The area of transport. The expenditure of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2015 is expected to be up to 94.3 billion according to construction readiness. CZK including the expected involvement of claims from unused expenditure in volume of approx. 11 billion. CZK, the combined increase in revenue and expenditure of the Operational Programme Transport in 2015 by CZK 27.5 billion. CZK and the participation of the balance in the fund account of CZK 6 billion. Kč. Budgetary expenditure of 260 million is available to compensate for fare discounts in 2015. Kč. In addition, the budget for 2015 in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport includes budget expenditure on the reimbursement of public service obligations in public rail passenger transport for regions amounting to a total amount of 2.8 billion. CZK including the inflation coefficient. Defense and security. The expenditure of the Ministry of Defence chapter is designed to amount to 43,8 billion. CZK for 2015 is expected to increase expenditure for the following years. The expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Interior was reinforced by 1.4 billion compared to 2014. CZK, total expenditure for 2015 is designed to amount to CZK 55 billion. Kč. Industry. For industrial investment actions, the Ministry of Industry and Trade provides material support for the acquisition of long-term intangible and tangible assets in accordance with Act No. 72/2000 Sb., on investment incentives. In 2013 and 2014, according to the relevant resolutions, the government approved material aid for several investors entitled to material aid in 2015, which should support employment. These are the following investors: JC Interiors Czechia s. r. o. 33.5 miles. Kč, LEGO Production s. r. o. 45,7 miles. CZK, Nexen Tire Corporation 250 miles. CZK 66 million, Hyundai Mobis Company Limited Kč. Administration of state material reserves. Expenditure on the protection of oil products and the increased volume of food protection in connection with events in Ukraine has been increased. The government budget reserve is designed to amount to less than 3.9 billion. Kč. The expenditure of the State Debt Chapter is proposed in the amount of 64.5 billion for 2015. Kč. In 2014 and 2015, the stabilization of the koruna value of the state debt is planned at the level of the state at the end of 2013. At the end of 2015, it is expected at a level of 1,683 million. Kč. The share of government debt in GDP at the end of 2015 should therefore be 39,9 %. At the end of my speech, I would like to ask Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to support the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2015 and to approve the basic data of the draft law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please the rapporteur, Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, government. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Budget Committee, which was discussed on 8 October 2014 by the Act on the State Budget for 2015, in the presence of Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance, Mr Babiš. The Committee on Budgets therefore recommends: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 at first reading. [[10.00 hours]] Chamber of Deputies: I. approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 according to the House's press 331, which are: A. the amount of revenue fixed by the amount of CZK 1 118 455 070 558, the amount of expenditure determined by the amount of CZK 1 218 455 070 558, the difference between revenue and expenditure, i.e. the balance, determined by the amount of CZK 100 billion. Kč. B. method of settlement of the balance by the following financing items: (a) increase in state bonds up to CZK 101 416 800 000, (b) change in state financial assets accounts by an increase of CZK 1, 416,800,000; C. financial relations of the state budget to regional budgets with the exception of the capital city of Prague, i.e. contributions of a total amount of CZK 1 040 870 000, D. financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of municipalities with the exception of the capital city of Prague in total in individual regions, namely subsidies and contributions of a total amount of 7 434 739 068 CZK, E. financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, namely contributions of a total amount of CZK 814 349 000, F. Authorisation of the Minister of Finance in § 2 para. 1, 2, 3, including the possibility to change the amount of total revenue, total expenditure and other indicators referred to herein in accordance with the procedure and, to that extent, the authorisation of: The Ministry of Finance will proceed in determining the amount of contributions to the performance of the state administration to individual municipalities and the capital city of Prague according to § 1 para. 10 in Annex 8, all in the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 according to the House's press 331. II. He notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 (a) it contains financial relations with the budgets of the European Union, namely the expected revenue from the budget of the European Union totalling CZK 86 721 131 288 and contributions to the budget of the European Union to a total amount of CZK 39 billion. Kč. (b) determine the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Companies, a.s., of 300 billion. Kč. It commands the discussion of the chapter and headings of the Government's draft state budget for 2015 - I will not read this with permission - stated in the resolution, the various committees that each chapter is assigned to them. Finally, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have also done. Mr President, I am also reporting for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u5	Yes. Am I supposed to see this as an application for priority-rights newsletter? [[Yes.]] If so, you're number five with priority rights. So I am now opening up a general debate and, first of all, we will deal with priority rights. The first is President Kalousek, then Mr. Chairman of the Fiala Dawn Club, then President Okamura... Reverse? The other way around. President Okamura and then President Fiala. And then Chairman Fiala, this time from ODS. And then the rapporteur. And if another priority right is not exercised, it would be time for the names on the board. Mr Kalousek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment in this parliamentary term, because it is basically the first budget that this government has actually prepared since the beginning of the budgetary cycle. Although the 2014 budget was supported by the government coalition, it certainly cannot be said that it prepared it because it was taken over 14 days after it was submitted. There wasn't much I could do. In other words, this government's budgetary policy is only being said by this budget. The government presents it as an austerity budget, as a fair budget and as an investment-enhancing budget. Well, don't buy it. If we really were to approve these words, we could probably approve it unanimously. Unfortunately, we will not approve the words presented by the government to this budget. We're gonna approve the numbers that are written in that document. Unfortunately, there are numbers written in this document that are in direct conflict with these words. Allow me to demonstrate this on the Ministry of Finance's figures, both from their documents on the medium term and mainly from 95 percent of the document we all have on the benches, i.e. from the draft State Budget Act. [[The Prime Minister and MP Krakar are having a loud conversation in the government bench right behind the speaker's back.]] And to do so in a consistent manner, that is, in some medium-term trend that I dare define as a five-year-old. [[The speaker raised his voice to be heard better because the noise behind him disturbs him.]] Fiscal policy over the past years has been marked by a real effort to save, but to achieve at least a stagnation of expenditure. Saving budgets are...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u7	I'm sorry, I'm begging for peace in government benches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u8	Saving budgets are marked by the fact that when spending - [[The Prime Minister and MP Krakora began to talk immediately after the speaker took the floor again.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but if the rapporteur, Mr Krákora, speaks to me, I am unable to concentrate. I don't read my speech...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u9	Yes. Once again, and I strongly ask for peace in government benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u10	Thank you. Sorry, I don't read my speech. To say it out of my head and prove that I can do more than read, I just have to be at least focused. Thank you. Saving budgets are marked by the fact that, when there is no longer annual expenditure cuts, at least political representation is trying to stagnate in order to avoid significant year-to-year increases. This corresponds to the years 2011 to 2013, when the total expenditure was 1 072, 1 087, then 1 074. For 2014, Rusnokův's government changed this trend and there was a relatively significant increase from 1 074 to 1 112. The government's proposed budget as austerity compared to Rusnokův's budget increases spending again and increases it from 1,112 billion. to 1,131 billion. This means that the proposed expenditures that we will approve are 18 billion. CZK higher than that Rusnokův's budget, which you didn't really consider economical. Yet you propose 18 billion. higher spending and 24.5 billion. higher than forecasted by the 2013 medium-term outlook. If we rely on another government presentation, which says that such a budget therefore supports investment, the optimist would expect this increase to mean a significant increase in investment expenditure in order to promote economic growth. bohužel, the opak is true. In the budget before you, the amount of investment expenditure is proposed at a lower level than ever budgeted or invested by right-wing governments at a time of crisis, at a time of recession, at a time when government parties criticized right-wing governments for cutting down the economy by low public investment, so you are proposing significantly less for next year. Because I am aware that the government is trying desperately to avoid comparing what has been budgeted and what has actually been invested and how relations with the European Union have been projected or not projected into this, I have taken the liberty, and I am asking for attention and patience, from the draft State Budget Act and from the state final accounts, to remove investment from national sources and including the European Union, and to exclude what has actually been budgeted and what has been actually spent so that there can be no doubt that what I am saying is really true and that for next year you are planning lower investment than any methodology has been budgeted and invested in times of economic recession. [[10.10 hours]] So, if you allow us to take only national investments, we will clear them of relations with the European Union, income and expenditure from the European Union, what was invested only from national sources, in 2011, it was budgeted at 40.7 billion, in fact thanks to a number of budgetary measures and by increasing investment during the year, 48.1 billion were invested. 48,6 billion. it was also budgeted in 2012 and 47.7 billion were actually invested, i.e. About 1 billion. less. In 2013, it was financed from national resources for investments of 46 billion. And, yes, Rusnokův's government was unable to drain all these available resources. It invested not only 46 billion but 42.8 billion. from national sources, which is still more than the budget of Mr Babiš and Mr Sobotka's government for next year, because it is only 40.7 billion from national sources, i.e. significantly less than invested in 2011, 2012 and 2013 from national sources. If we also take relations with the European Union, then in 2011, there was a budget for investment of 104,9 billion, in fact due to unused claims from previous years more than 118.9 billion. In 2012, the budget was 96,9 billion. and in fact, 113.6 billion were invested. And in 2013, 97 billion were budgeted, in fact 102.3 billion were invested. For 2015, including the European Union's resources, the government's budget is proposed by 75,6 billion. Once again: 118 in 2011, 113 in 2012, 102 in 2013 and 75 for next year. maně's idea is that there were major street demonstrations in 2012. Mr Zavadil, then the President of the Czech Moravian Union Chamber of Trade Unions, held demonstrations where it was said that almost a criminal government of low public investment was strangling the economy, strangling economic growth, destroying employment in the Czech Republic. He said that in the year we invested significantly more than you're planning to invest next year. I would quite like to ask Mr Zavadil through the President, if he approves such a budget, he will also be able to demonstrate against it, because you want to strangle the economy with low investment expenditures significantly more than we did. So where did the money go when we're increasing spending in this proposal, quite significantly, and yet we're actually choking on investment and setting it below the level of years of the biggest crisis? It's simple. They shared in the state's operating expenses and became part of our social benefits. When we look at the 2013 outlook - that is the last outlook for right-wing governments that have invested more than you plan to invest next year - the social benefits increase by 17.7 billion compared to the assumptions. CZK and operating expenditure of the State are increased by 17.8 billion. Crowns. For social benefits I understand this to a large extent, where it mainly concerns pensions. It is quite more interesting for the operating expenditure of the state, because in addition to smaller items such as multi-money for the purchase of materials, the main items of salaries are for the purchase of services. The Ministry of Finance's efforts to offset salaries from the state's operating expenses are touching. Please, perhaps we all understand that salaries are one of the basic items and part of the state's operating expenses, even the most dominant ones, so saying 'I'm saving up on traffic and increasing salaries' is a contradiction. So the highest wage is 6.5 billion. CZK, and a rather significant increase of almost 6 billion. non-investment subsidies to business entities. That's a sort of aggregated item. If you find it too general, such a typical expenditure of non-investment subsidies to business entities is a subsidy to the agrifood complex. Of course, she's not the only one. That's where the money's going. Almost 18 billion. Social benefits, almost 18 billion. traffic. This, of course, when we add up, is more than the increase of 24.5 billion, so it is logical that the operation and social welfare are at the expense of investments that must be lower. There's only one crown, either you go through it or you invest it. You can't do both with her. And the government prefers the first one, i.e. He wants to eat it, he doesn't want to invest it. I have to say in this regard that I was cheered up by the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which, because I presented these figures on Monday at the press conference, immediately responded to the fact that I am making a completely unfair comparison, because I am comparing the medium-term outlook of 2013, which is something that cannot be valid, and that in 2013 I predicted a deficit of 110 billion, so actually the Ministry of Finance with a budget deficit of 100 billion. He's saving 10 billion against me. and has a much more economical budget. Well, either it's unfair to argue, which I don't think it is, that's normally fair, but I can't say that it's unfair to argue and at the same time take out my main argument from this medium-term perspective and say, look, they planned a higher deficit and I saved because I'm presenting a lower deficit. It's from the same material. This is from the mid-term perspective of 2013. And it's fair to argue - or if it's unfair, I can't use that argument - and I consider it fair to argue with it. I mean, yes, the budget that is presented is actually 10 billion. lower deficit than we expected in 2013. But it's not saving. Let's see what's causing this. This is due, firstly, to the fact that in 2013, we did not expect such a favourable development of the economy, which is now, which is not due to our government or your government. For that, we can thank the outside environment and pray quietly for it to last. So this year-on-year increase in gross domestic product, of course, significantly strengthens the revenue side of the budget and reduces the deficit. However, it doesn't mean we're saving up. According to this medium-term perspective, they were expected to be at 1. 1. 2015 reduce income taxes on natural persons. Of course, that's what counts, which is why the deficit is like that. [[10.20 hours]] Compared to the medium term, you raised taxes by 16 billion. - not against the reality, against the outlook - which is another 16 billion. on the income side for good and this is positively reflected in the deficit, but compared to the medium term you did not save a crown because the medium-term outlook expected expenditure of 24.5 billion. lower. It saves on expenses, it doesn't save on my growth. Therefore, higher growth should be reflected in a reduction in the deficit or at least in investment. But you only project it exclusively into the operating expenses of the state and into social benefits and investment. One more - because there is often talk of a beautiful growth budget - an expenditure on which we may all agree that it is pro-growth, and that is expenditure on science and research. The former TOP 09 government and the ODS made an extremely important assumption that despite the considerable savings that they actually made and reduced the structural deficit year after year, while you were increasing it, the only expenditure that really grew was expenditure on science and research. Allow specific figures, including European Union funds: 2011 - 37.6 billion, 2012 - 39.1 billion, 2013 - 39.8 billion. That means every year it's gone up a little bit. Year 2015 - 34,9 billion. Five billion. less budget is your budget - pro-growth! The only pro-growth expenditure that can be found in this increase is social benefits and salaries. Convincing that they will support the consumption of the population in such a way that we will spin the wheels of the economy with higher salaries and social benefits on debt. Very few believe that. First, because it can only be a short-term impulse that is consumed immediately in that one year, because nothing has been invested, and only debts will remain. Secondly, because we are a significantly pro-export economy, while domestic consumption draws most of the import. The consumer behaves rationally, that is to say, he chooses quality and price no matter where they make it. Thus, higher consumption, if we can hope for it, by increasing wages and social benefits, can support employment in the countries that bring us here, but certainly will not support employment here. The budget, which increases total spending and, at the same time, reduces investment below any level of crisis years, is a budget that we can call textbook-reading the future. I think that, given that the President commended the government for this budget, and at the same time the President is aware of his statement that we need to invest in the future, either his advisors gave him bad information about the level of investment that is very low, or, together with the government, he changed his favorite saying that we need to eat and drink to the future. That would be the budget, but certainly not the investment. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree that the budget is economical because it increases expenditure. Compared to Rusnokův's budget by 18 billion, compared to rational assumptions by 25 billion. I do not agree that the budget supports investment, because in any category pursued, whether investment from national sources, whether investment with the involvement of the European Union, whether what has been budgeted or whatever has actually been invested in this category, although the draft budget increases expenditure, reduces the amount of investment under crisis years. I would still survive that the government is fogging and deceiving the public about the structure of this budget. After all, it's not that surprising. But the trend is extremely damaging to the future, because you decide to eat, not invest in the future. For this reason, since only the balance, balance, relations with local budgets are approved at the first reading of the state budget, there is no refusal or a proposal to return with a recommendation from the government on how to redeploy the state budget, I would like to propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies will return the draft budget to the government with a recommendation: 1. total expenditure and balance will be reduced by at least 20 billion, 2. volume of investment from national sources increase at least to 2012. That's the year you all criticized us so badly that we're investing so little and strangling the economy. So please support this resolution with us and increase investment to at least this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u11	Thank you. Mr President, firstly, I would ask you for a written motion for a resolution, and secondly, we will not vote on this until the end of the debate. There is now one factual point, Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would just like to clarify a few things and refresh the memory of Members and the Chamber of Deputies. My colleague Kalousek says he predicted a deficit of 110 billion. at a time when he couldn't assume that the economy would turn around. I just point out that, in 2013, by the time he gave this prediction, most of the countries in Europe were already in black numbers. Germany has already significantly, including Poland, so it is a slightly odd argument. The second thing I don't think is that it's entirely correct is to say that it's God's fault for everything and the whole economy. When the German budget committee was here three months ago, he was just shaking his head about how unfortunately we were doing just in a time of crisis. We have increased taxes, reduced the purchasing capacity of the population, and solved the problems in the economy very unfortunately. That means it's not just about God, but it's also about sensible, correct and smart economic governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Kalousek will take the stand, but I still want to inform you. Mr Klučka replacement card 17, Mr Gazdík card 18 and Minister of Health Němeček apologizes for today's meeting due to participation in the 26th meeting of the Senate and other urgent work matters. So many technical announcements. President Kalousek has two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u14	Just very briefly. Mr. Colleague, you've only said half my argument. Not only a conservative estimate of the development of the economy, which was not so optimistic, but also there was, of course, the reduction in personal income taxes that you increased. That has to be said together. Both parameters increase revenue. And when we talk about savings, we are talking about the spending side. And you just increase the spending side, that's why it's not an austerity budget. And you're not increasing it in favour of investment, but you're increasing it in favour of eating. These are your numbers, not mine. It's not my fault. And the economic growth that we are worried about now, given the latest information from the euro area, your government may not believe that. Neither are ours, but at least I'm rationally confessing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u15	That was Mr Kalousek's factual point. And one more factual one, Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've heard a lot about the eating, and I remember the words from my colleague Kalousek in the past, who told us that we've eaten everything and sent us this famous bill. And that was when we weren't here at the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u17	Thank you. And if there are no further factual points, Mr Okamura has the floor now with priority rights and Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present the position of the Dawn movement on the draft state budget. The state budget contains thousands of items, and we can talk here about budget priorities, about deficit, about revenue estimates, but it may not be that practical in nature. Of course, we'd all like to spend more money on education or health care in Dawn, but what we don't know here is how economical the money is, the efficiency. This is not what the proposal will tell us, and not even more detailed reports on the proposal. I think it is necessary here to repeat what we have been saying for the second year, i.e. that all, literally, all government organisations from ministries to various state organisations have to undergo in-depth management audits. Of course, the Supreme Audit Office is trying, but this is a summer job for hundreds of experts and, above all, there must be political will. As far as deficit is concerned, 100 billion. can and may not be much. It depends on a specific case. If money is spent efficiently and efficiently, if it helps the people in need, and if this borrowed money also helps to move the economy, then perhaps it would not have mattered in the short term. Here I must honestly say that if the government increased or, in some cases, returned salaries to civil servants, police officers, paramedics and firefighters, if it increased pensions, it was a step forced by the drastic policies of past governments that took the needy and gave away the richest. These steps could not be taken, no matter who was a little judgmental in the government. We in Dawn would, of course, also support this, because social and wage cuts not only hit innocent people, but, of course, have strangled household consumption and economic growth. So, if we understand some of the expenditure in the budget in Dawn and we are trying to understand part of the budget deficit, it does not mean that everything is okay. What we lack is, for example, the government's long-term outlook for deficit reduction and strategy on how to work towards a balanced budget in the future and subsequently to repay debts. This fact, I think, is quite a fundamental deficiency in the concept of this government. Long-term visions, long-term budgetary objectives are lacking. It is not possible, at our debt level, to continue the irresponsibleness of existing governments. Together with the economists, we in Dawn also believe that the budget, virtually. The changes in it are not ambitious, although we perceive that the coalition had to fulfil its pre-election vows. And, as we have noticed, the coalition has used the budget flexibly to its election campaign, when it added to its employees, exceptionally from this November, and then just after the election, it found that it could not keep the promise to health workers, and canceled the promise again, which, of course, is either a reason that it was knowingly lying here, or it would be total amateurism that the information was not available, which I do not understand in a government with thousands or tens of thousands of officials. But I'm thinking, why not? Let us be generous, and if a citizen benefits from populist actions, then it may not be so bad in some cases, because another and much worse and very long-shot chapter of this government is unfulfilled populist promises. I'm just saying, but I don't want to turn away from the subject that we've been waiting for a year to draft the government law of executors, loan sharks, judicial reforms. There's just nothing on the table! As far as investment is concerned, there is, in fact, no support for investment in this draft budget. We searched the budget in vain because we were based on the words of government officials, but they didn't. We compared it to last years, and it's really not clear from the budget. So I guess here we're gonna argue about the words, who's right, but the numbers are clear: compared to other years, it's just not there to see! Now back to the ambition of the budget. I'm not going to overwhelm with long numbers and long speeches here, I'm saying this in advance, unlike my previous speaker, but when I look at the reality in 2012, so we don't go back too long, our budget deficit was minus 101 billion, but it was in a situation where GDP growth was minus 1%. We have a deficit here for a year, once again minus 100 billion, but the expected GDP growth is 2.5 percent, so this is really very remarkable, and although, as you can see, we are also trying to be very supportive of the budget in Dawn and we are trying to take this into account, this really is not a good economic process. That's just not quite right. I'd like to take a little turn right now. Here Minister Babiš mentioned the support of the South Korean company Nexen, which will be in the order of 100 miles. CZK, and it concerned the tire factory from South Korea, which will stand in the Ústí Region. I don't want to turn away, but I was a little shocked here, this government incentive at all, because when I looked at the terms under which the contract between this company and the government is concluded to secure jobs, I wonder, and I don't know if you know it, there is no condition to employ Czech citizens - there is no condition to employ Czech citizens! This means that our state will pay out hundreds of millions of crowns and the government is holed up by supporting jobs for Czech citizens, but it says in the contract that this company has a condition to employ EU citizens - not citizens of the Czech Republic! This means that the Polák, Bulhar and Rumun, who occupy jobs because they are willing to work cheaper, will occupy jobs as Czech citizens, we will, from our taxes, from our citizens' taxes we will support and there will be a secondary effect that occurs because of this irresponsible policy of existing governments, that the pay average in this area will be reduced by the fact that Polák, Rumun and Bulhar are willing to work for less, of course, because they have lower cost of living in their respective countries, where they send the money, and basically lower the average level of wages for our citizens, who are not working at the factory at all, but also in the surrounding companies, because employers, of course, respond. This means that this is an absolutely harmful policy and I do not understand why the government insisted that it be a condition to employ citizens of the Czech Republic. We have record unemployment here, and I am talking about the fact that even within this budget there is a lot of increase, I would say, the money for social benefits, or it is a significant part, but essentially it is b), which means that we do not have to pay the benefits and support the jobs for our money, for investment incentives from taxes in the Czech Republic, so it isn't really here. So, of course, we see this as a problem. As far as the deficit of the proposed budget is concerned, we are wondering how the budget is - virtually. It tells us how great the budget is, how we do our best and how we approach the countries of the world or the best countries, but let us pour pure wine because the budget deficits in the EU countries we should be heading to are completely different. [[10.40 hours]] When I look at last year, Denmark minus 0,8 %, Germany zero, Estonia, when we look even east of us, minus 0,2 %, Latvia minus 1% and, of course, Sweden minus 1,1 %, Luxembourg 0.1. Which I just want to point out is that the Czech Republic, of course, has a much higher deficit and we are nowhere near it. This means that even the Baltic Republics, those post-Soviet republics east of us, are better off. And I'm just going back to the fact that when I looked at some round-the-clock budget forecast, because I didn't see anything official on the table here, the structural deficit that's being proposed here by this government is counting on the 2016 deficit minus 1.8, 2017 minus 1.7. According to the fiscal pact to which our government proudly subscribes, the maximum should be minus 1%, but we really know that it should be minus 0.5. That means, in fact, even in some outlined budgetary perspective - or I didn't see anything official on the table - so basically, the debt trend continues. And that is exactly what I was suggesting here in the context of the speech that I essentially lack ambition here, especially at the time of economic growth, in some way to reduce the deficit. And I really miss the actions, because we've heard the words, all the time, for months. I miss those actions. So when are we going to start reducing the deficit and approaching the parameters of the fiscal pact that this government is proud to report to, and especially the balanced budget? And we can ask where to go about it, because, of course, in Dawn, we refuse to save on citizens. We believe that there is sufficient room in the state budget to ensure decent social conditions as well as decent conditions for citizens while at the same time saving up for the service of the state. I'll give you an example of stealing public contracts. The centre of applied economics has made it clear that companies that donate money to political parties receive about 50 percent more public contracts than comparable companies. In comparison, the association found that 28 percent of corporate donors were linked to public procurement. This, of course, concerns sides other than Dawn, because we don't have any corporate donors. Since 2006, these companies have won CZK 390 billion. And the most common recipients of such gifts from companies were KDU-ČSL, ODS and TOP 09. This means, here we see certainly space and unfortunately I miss the government, from this coalition government of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, any ambition to work with these reserves, which are certainly in the budget, as you can see, even by experts. But back to the budget. It's just that the good basically outweighs the bad. If the government has a vision that says "yes, this year we will increase wages and pensions, but next years we will put on a fat-free budget" then, perhaps, we can agree with a proposal for a certain deficit. But there was no such thing. There's no such thing here. On the contrary, even in the coming years, the government is planning relatively high deficits. I've already done that on the numbers here. So, despite the conciliatory words I have spoken on the budget, we cannot vote for him. For one thing, there is no responsibility for something that we do not have and cannot influence, and then, in fact, the budget, as it grows, increases spending in an extensive form, contradicts the program of our movement. And I've already explained that - there are expenses and expenses. We need to look at it, and when we look at it, we just have the reservations I was talking about. If we ever want budgets to be balanced, then we really need to make spending more efficient and less efficient. And we in Dawn claim that this can be done without impact on the social level of citizens. I've already said specific examples here, and there would be a lot more. It is often enough to cut taxes only to pay them - we have evidence for this in many countries - and not to circumvent their payment in order to increase consumption. But people have to be motivated to do that. Of course, one of the important factors of motivation is trust in the state, which I also miss, in fact, to work together on that trust. Then people will be willing to pay taxes, even if they are paradoxically higher, as we see in Scandinavia. It is often enough to reduce the costs of citizens and companies, whether by changing stupid laws or by supporting technologies that reduce spending for households, or by providing cheap services to the state or community. I've given examples here in the past. To conclude, unfortunately, the Úsvit movement cannot support the budget for these reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u19	Thank you. I have here a factual remark from Mr Plzák. [[He didn't check in.]] Okay, I'll erase you. Let's keep going. Mr Fiala of the Dawn is also declared with priority rights and is followed by President Fiala of the ODS. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, my dear government, as I have already said on the issue of the state budget for 2015, the Dawn of Direct Democracy movement rejects the Government's intention to increase the overall debt of the Czech Republic. Let me remind you that the deficit in the period of relative economic growth was what has already led us to considerable difficulties during the crisis. That is why every citizen of the Czech Republic today, including the smallest citizens, owes over 160,000 crowns. In 2003, the Czech Republic enjoyed a 3.6 percent growth in the economy, and yet the government of Vladimír Špidla pushed through the 2004 budget with a deficit of 115 billion. Crowns. In 2006, we had a 6.8% economic growth here, and the government of Mirek Topolánek pushed through the budget with a deficit of 91 billion. Crowns. Then came the crisis. The GDP of the Czech Republic fell by 4.1 percentage points in 2009, and therefore for 2010 the government of Jan Fischer approved the budget, which was already at a minus 163 billion. Sometimes and some prime ministers managed to get the real budget deficit slightly below the planned one, yet the total debt of the Republic was skyrocketing. In the very recent past, the government of Petr Nečas pushed through the so-called GDP drop by 1.2 percentage points in 2012. economic budget for 2013 with a deficit of 100 billion. Crowns. Bohuslav Sobotka's government budget for 2014 followed with a deficit of 112 billion. Crowns. We are now being proposed to indebt the Republic for another 100 billion. And I ask, where is our lessons from past years and past mistakes, ladies and gentlemen? If we estimate that our economy will grow by 2.7 percentage points this year and by 2.5 percent next year, then now is the time to pay off debts. That the government is in such a detachable state after your predecessors that we can't save money yet? Okay. So why don't we decide for next year that at least we'll stop indebting. In 1993 - and now let me have some numbers, because the economy is about numbers and state budgets too. In 1993, we began with a debt of 159 billion. Mr. Klaus left with a debt of 173 billion, Mr. Tošovský with a debt of 195 billion, Mr. Zeman 396 billion. Mr Špidla 593 billion, Mr Gross 691 billion, Mr Paroubek 806 billion, Mr Topolánek trillion 178 billion, Mr Fischer trillion 344 billion, Mr Nečas left us with a debt of trillion 683 billion. As you can see, politicians are coming and going, but debt is growing in a rocket way and remains a citizen. Of course, every prime minister and every government, they all had many noble reasons to owe us, but the fact remains that the crisis of the Czech Republic's non-crisis of the Czech Republic's state debt has been being committed here since 1993 and the public debt of the Republic is already 46 percent. Therefore, Mr Sobotka, dear Prime Minister, I ask what your number will be. And I have to ask - not only as an MP, but as a citizen of the Czech Republic. Shall we break the ceiling of a two-billion-dollar debt? Are we going to break the magical limit of 50 percent of GDP? Are we going to break the 60 percent threshold under your government? When and where do you intend to stop, Your Majesty? Who and how will repay the debt already incurred? What we will do if a new round of crisis comes, and we have been in debt at a time of economic growth. Does your government at least realize that it is no longer possible to do this, because one beautiful day our entire state will go bankrupt? The Dawn Movement will not support further indebtion of the Czech Republic and cannot support this draft state budget. On the contrary, we propose to return this draft state budget back to the government to recast, with the recommendation that we reduce the deficit of this state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u21	I thank you, and I have here with Mr Votava's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just a brief comment on my honored colleague's speech from the Fiala Budget Committee. Yes, a deficit of 100 billion. koruna, but that does not mean, my colleague, by your means, that it will be 100 billion. will increase the government's debt. I assume you have carefully read the draft state budget and you will find that the government is declaring that state debt will not increase, that it will remain at the same level as it is this year. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u23	I thank you and will now ask President Fiala of the ODS for his contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, first of all, sorry that Prime Minister Sobotka is not here because he should undoubtedly be present on such an important matter as the state budget. Plus, I wanted to talk to him because what's being presented here is a typical socialist budget. It's not a growth budget, but it's a redistributive budget that takes everyone's money and gives only to someone. I'm afraid Prime Minister Sobotka allowed his government to make the same mistakes he did at the time he was the finance minister himself. Here I am thinking of the famous statement by Franz Josef Strauss on the address of the Social Democrats, who said: Today's socialists have not changed in any way or learned from the past. They have not forgotten what they did wrong, and they have not learned what is wise. Unfortunately, this is fully reflected in this budget, and I will explain why. It is, of course, the first budget of Sobotkův's government, and this government adopts the measures and laws it adopts, with the fact that they will normally start to apply in 2015, so nothing that happens in the economy is yet the result of the government's action, but it is the effect of governments prior to it, and we are also in such an economic situation - of course due to external conditions - that the government has actually good assumptions for establishing a reasonable budget. And she's not using them. Let's remember some of the good economic assumptions. So GDP will be higher than 4,000 billion for the first time in history. CZK and GDP is expected to grow by 2-3 % next year. It is also positive, of course, that unemployment has fallen; this trend is expected to continue according to the outlook. Of course, increasing household consumption is also a positive fact, which should stick to or grow up next year. Compared to those governments where civil democrats may have been involved, the current government has 4 percentage points of GDP growth for good. This makes additional more than 50 billion. CZK of revenue for the state budget. But it's not enough for the government, but the government is planning a deficit of 20 billion. crowns higher than the governments in which the Civil Democratic Party was. So, simply put, the government generally has good conditions for paying off debts in good times, investing in transport infrastructure, in business, education, research, innovation, and also preparing our country for worse times. And worse times can come. I don't know, the budget looks like it's supposed to be a permanent boom. Perhaps the government was so concerned with its compilation that it forgot to read foreign media, foreign analyses, because the surrounding countries, such as Germany, and even some more distant, such as France, are counting on the possibility of economic downturn and are preparing for this. But Sobotkův's government doesn't do that. Sobotkův's government is giving away and not investing. And from the numbers that we have here and that you have, I hope, all of you who want to vote in favour have come to know, so it's obvious that this budget is not investment, but it's redistribution. He takes away from everyone and gives to the chosen one. I have tried very hard to understand what this budget is so investment, and that is actually the main argument that the government and the Minister of Finance are coming up with - that it is presenting us with an investment budget. At the end of June, Minister Babiš even said: at last we will invest, with the construction of motorways to be started, the investments will go into other sectors. We have to invest, Minister Babiš said, that according to his ideas the state budget could be balanced in 2017. That's where we're going, that's the goal of quoting his exact words here. But when we look at the planned investments as we have them in this budget, we see that this is 75,6 billion. CZK, and this is 26 percent less than the investments in 2013, when we did not enjoy such good economic parameters as the Czech Republic. So if we have expected good incomes, if we have a good economic situation, when everything is growing, but we're not investing, and obviously we're not investing more than we've invested in the past, we're even investing less, so let's ask where the funds go. Of course, they go according to the characteristics of the budget that I did here at the beginning, which means that it is a redistributive socialist budget, so they go exactly where they should not go, and there are increasing items that should not be raised. Consider, for example, what is increasing. Current expenditure on the operation of offices is increased by 8,5 percent, as a general rule. Expenditure on the activities of its own offices is increased, increased by 15,6 percent year on year and accounted for 20,5 percent of total current expenditure. The total increase in current expenditure, for example, is 8.5% only at the Office of the Government. The salary of officials and other employees is rising sharply instead of reducing the number of officials and rewarding those who really do a good job. Only the expenses for civil servants' salaries are rising by 6.5 percent here, and the Government Office itself - only the Government Office - will pay by 55 million on salaries. more than this year, while employing 43 additional people. But that's just one example where it's being wasted and where the money that's missing from investment is actually going. Another characteristic of the budget or what the Sobotkův government is doing is that we are increasing our mandatorial spending. They are historically at the highest level and account for 58.5% of the budget. And here, of course, the mandatorial spending is the growth of pensions, social benefits, but also, for example, contributions to the social consequences of restructuring of 11 percent, support for unemployment, where the money also grows, even if unemployment is expected to be lower. Of course, payments to public health insurance go up by 2 billion, because you've cancelled your fees before, and, of course, subsidies are going up. At this meeting, we have material that increases investment incentives for foreign companies to 11.6 billion. per year. You have recently approved green diesel for large farmers, where you have approved a grant for loss-making OKD, or in the form of subsidies, you are also spending the funds that could be used differently. [[11.00 hours]] One example that, on the contrary, is not increasing and what should therefore definitely be increased, and these are the funds already mentioned here for research and development. Compared to 2013, our scientists will receive 5 billion. CZK less, the share of GDP spending on research will reach 0.83% of GDP in 2015, which is a decline, because we have already reached 1% of GDP in 2013. Expenditure on other necessary investments is not being reinforced either. I mentioned research, I also have to mention transport infrastructure. But the investments to be made by the Ministry of Transport are not higher, and the national resources we are putting into this are the same. In doing so, the government plans to collect 30 billion in taxes. CZK more, but this money should be used to boost investment, not to eat and distribute it, as the government is planning in this budget. Here, when I look at this budget, his structure and income and expenses, I think of the old famous quote by President Ronaldo Reagan, who once said, "The government is like a toddler - unlimited eating on the income side, zero liability on the spending side." And that is exactly the picture of how this budget is drawn up. The government is buying voters from taxpayers' money populistly here, preferring the interests of narrow groups, but not investing and prefering most citizens of the Czech Republic. She'd do better if she left the money to the citizens because they know better how to handle it. The main argument, and we have heard here, is investment for an irresponsible 100-billion-dollar deficit in this budget at the time of economic growth. But as I tried to show up here, it's quite obvious that this thesis isn't true. I remind you once again, and it has also been said here that in 2013, the state budget ended with a deficit of 81 billion. CZK, but the investments amounted to CZK 97 billion. Kč. And this budget, which is planning a deficit of 100 billion. CZK, the investment is only expected to amount to CZK 75,6 billion. CZK, and you dare call it for an investment, growth budget. The government's giving away money, pretending to have enough, but it's not telling us the truth. There is no solution for the problems that are coming, no solution for pension problems, no solution to promote economic growth, not to build, obviously not to build new motorways, transport infrastructure, invest in better health care, does not support research and development. Ladies and gentlemen, for this budget, Members of the Civil Democratic Party cannot raise their hand. On the contrary, the citizens' democrats will propose a return to the law for recasting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u25	Thank you. I have two factual points here. The first is Mr Holík, and the second is Mr Zavadil. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Mr President, also a good day. I'm just taking the liberty of asking a few questions. I agree more or less with Mr Fiala's words. I have one point to make. Under the rule of socialism, the budget has always been balanced, sometimes even with a slight surplus. But more importantly now. You know, I'm from Wallachia, so it's a Czech-Slovak border, maybe we get a little bit slower there. [[The noise in the room is increasing.]] That is why, through Mr President, I wanted to ask Mr Votava here how we can make a deficit of 100 billion and not increase our debt. I confess, I'm quite interested, because if someone tells me this art, I'd quite like to improve my family's budget as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u27	Thank you. Now another factual remark by Mr Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u28	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Looking at the TOP 09 benches, I found out that the President is not here, sorry, Vice-President Kalousek, but the chairman of the club. I would like to respond to a few comments. Oh, he's coming in. I think it's an outrage to talk about these things without putting it into context. I'm saying the outrageous insolence because today we're talking about a deficit of 100 billion. Kč. The 100 billion. CZK was created when the 2008 budget was prepared in 2007 and Mr Topolánek, Mr Nečas and then Minister Kalousek were there. By introducing a flat tax, all the things that have been done, by reducing corporate tax, we have been given a deficit to the state budget of more than 100 billion. Kč. Back when we were fighting, and we fought a lot, but that doesn't mean we can't have a reasonable relationship, so he admitted 70. I say, and we figured it was 100. That's the 100 billion. The CZK we've been carrying since then. That's what I'm saying. And then about 2012. Through the President, Minister, you were in 2012, when you set the budget, or for 2012, two packages followed. We remember them well. The first one was, I guess, 24 billion. and the other one was a little bit more, so at the time, it stepped on the economy's brakes in such a way that it really triggered these problems that caused - the reduction in consumption, the reduction in the salaries of the police, the reduction in the salaries of health workers and all those groups - and which this government is now trying to correct. That's not normal. That's right! After all, Mr Okamura said in his nature that he understood this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u29	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but with a point of fact, you had two minutes. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u30	I'm done. So I just want to say that the demonstration wasn't because it was an investment. This was because we wanted to protest against pension reform, health issues, etc. etc. I'm done. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u31	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. Through the President, Mr President of the Committee, with all the deep respect and friendship I feel for you, you have now told me that I have severely reduced taxes. Yes, I did. But please coordinate this argument with your party chairman and with the Chairman of the ANO 2011 movement who blame me for raising taxes. You need to see if I've raised or reduced the taxes. You're not entirely clear on this. And as for the strangling expenses, what do you want to answer is that you're planning to invest much less than we did at the time of the deepest crisis? What can you answer? I have now handed over the motion for a resolution, where I ask the Chamber of Deputies to recover, not to eat the future, and to impose on the government an increase in the volume of investment from national sources at least to the level of 2012. That's the level you protested that it was low. So we just want you to raise it to this level. For proboha's sake, at least try to be a little consistent in that argument!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u33	Thank you. I have here three applications for a debate with priority rights. The first is the rapporteur, Mr Votava, followed by President Stanjura and then Deputy Prime Minister Babiš. Okay, Mr. Vice Prime Minister has a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to answer Mr. Fial, he was talking about debt again. Please read the budget. I'll explain to Mr. Holík about the debt. I'll repeat the numbers again. Debt 31. 12. 2013 is 1,683 billion. Debt at the end of 2015, thus 31. 12. 2015, is 1,683 billion. 1,683 billion. - twice is the same number. That means the debt doesn't increase. I would also like to inform you that the state budget, the 2014 Act, is 112 billion. And I see him at 80. So I'll save 32 billion. I tell Mr. Holík as much as possible. Simple. That we started managing the liquidity of the state. That's the same money that was in the accounts, and you all laughed at me for being a fool for not knowing how to control the state's liquidity. I started driving it, and we'll even make about 150 miles on Euroinvestments. I understand that you don't understand that there's the same debt and there's a deficit of about 80 and we're planning 100 next year, but that doesn't mean 100 will be. I'll try to make it less. But today it looks like 100, it's 20 less than it was. And how is that possible? Well, it's possible that the Treasury, which everyone so praises, is still not functioning. And if we had the same thing as private companies do, that cash pool that you have 300 companies and some companies have money in their accounts, and some companies have loans and accounts, and some people are sitting there pairing it up, I can tell you that except for 1,683 billion. the debt that I just cut, by the way, last time we reported it, 330 miles. has decreased, I think, by the end of September -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u35	Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I'm sorry, the actual point is for two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u36	I'll finish talking. In addition to debt, other state institutions have 133 billion in their accounts. If we put it together, the debt would only be 1,55. It's about debt management, about someone running it. I started running it, so it's possible that there's no increase in debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u37	Your two minutes, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I'm sorry. Really respect when you have a point of fact, whoever's talking, so it's two minutes. If you want your speech to be longer, please report to the proper debate. Thank you for respecting that. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u38	Thank you. Yes, Minister, we all hope with you that this year's deficit will end at 80 billion, which is why next year, although you are planning economic growth, you are planning a deficit of 100 billion. with unprecedentedly low investment. This is an extremely responsible budgetary policy. First of all. You didn't start managing the liquidation of the state debt. That's where your predecessors started to run, because the Treasury project came into effect on 1. 1. 2013 and thanks to it, I was able to reduce the debt reserve by 110 billion that year. and nominal debt declined. It's a good thing you're doing this. You have not completely destroyed all the projects, you continue to do so and it is good that the liquidity of the state will be better and better, because the state treasury project has a four-year start-up curve. You're just going on with what someone started before you. That's the first point. Second point. By allowing you to reduce the debt reserve and the operations of state financial assets to reduce nominal debt again, this does not mean that you will reduce liabilities. Don't try to explain to people in this country that if you spend $100 billion. more than you'll accept, they won't be able to make those commitments. These are accounting operations, they're legitimate accounting operations, I'd do them too, but please, don't fool people and don't say you're reducing liabilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u39	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u40	Really factual. The Minister of Finance said he would save and the deficit would be 80 billion this year, but if I collect more taxes, which is happening, there is no investigation, that is to be said. If it were against the planned budget - and we know it was another government that proposed it, it would be there, even with your votes. If it were about the 32 billion. They cut the expenses, so you'd be right to spare it. But I can't make savings, and this is often happening in a public debate, it's not even the first time today, and I'm afraid, not the last time, that the savings will include increased taxes paid by taxpayers. Those aren't savings. That's that the taxpayers paid more. Yes, so the deficit can be lower, and that's a good thing. But the government says we're going to save more, we're going to improve our tax collection, it's going to be better than it was, this year it's going to be 80 billion. and 100 billion next year. We've talked about the investment numbers here today several times. There's no point in telling yourself that it's 75 billion. It's not 100. Everyone knows that. And these are the figures from the draft state budget, not the numbers from the opposition benches. It's table number four, it's on the eighth page of a notebook called the State Budget Report, and it's your data, it's not opposition data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u41	Thank you. We will now proceed to those who are enrolled in a debate with priority rights. The first is Mr Votava, then I ask Mr Stanjura - yes. And Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš with priority rights is also logged in? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, if we really want to understand the fundamental qualitative changes contained in the 2015 budget presented, and it is true that this is indeed the first budget of the current government coalition with the participation of social democracy, then we must return to the original frameworks of the 2015 budget horizon. This framework was part of the 2014 budget. It is by comparing these two proposals that a fundamental qualitative change in the approach to budgetary policy between the current and previous government coalitions is shown. Changes that may have been accidentally forgotten about the amount of individual budget chapters in the struggle for live transmission, quotes. First of all, the budgetary outlook for the next year worked with revenue of 1 trillion 2 billion. 300 miles. CZK, with expenses of 1 trillion 122 billion. 300 miles. CZK, i.e. with a deficit of 120 billion. At first glance, it is clear that there has also been a significant shift between this idea and the current coalition proposal. I'm sure I'll move forward for the better. Of course, the development of revenue and expenditure has been updated according to current developments in budget implementation this year and also according to the new forecast of economic development for 2015. However, the implementation of systemic changes resulting also from the Government's programming declaration proved to be a major factor in increasing revenue and budget expenditure. I would like to first stop here at the abolition of tax laws related to the introduction of the so-called. single collection points. Of course, nothing against a single collection point as such, the meaning of this law is certainly good, but what actually happened to this law when it was negotiated with this law, and what was implemented into this law, it certainly was very wrong. These are the measures that the opposition is attacking here today, especially by Miroslav Kalousek's mouth, for alleged tax increases next year. So, especially in the next year, no taxpayer will increase against the current tax situation. That's right. And I suggest you get acquainted with the evolution of the tax quota, the compound tax quota. The law on the introduction of a single tax place is primarily one of such pitfalls, I would say, which was set up by former Minister of Finance Kalousek. I called it Kalouskův's landmines. These proposals were already approved by the previous coalition in 2011, but of course the account should have been paid by the new government. [[11.20 hours]] That's probably why it's been counted on like this. They should have entered into force, of course, from 1. 1. 2015. And if we accepted these proposals, public finances from year to year would lose over 20 billion. Crowns. That's very obvious. I see a colleague of Stanjura who is nodding his head in agreement, so he confirms what I am certain to say. In fact, we could also find it difficult to meet a number of our programming objectives. The government has a programme, has applied to certain priorities, these priorities need to be met. However, this is only part of the problems associated with this law, and from my point of view it was much worse that this law - and now I am not afraid to say the word - further distorted the tax system of the Czech Republic by an anti-employment focus. For employees, and therefore the vast majority of taxpayers, its introduction into life would mean a significant increase in the tax burden, with obvious pressure on the decline in net wages and with clear derived effects on the state budget. I've already talked about this. It is therefore no wonder that the current government coalition does not feel bound by these four years old, irresponsible and also really unbelievable fantasies of a no-existent government coalition, which so much liked to have the government of budgetary responsibility. But I would like to return to the draft state budget for 2015 and to the implementation of the current government's programming statement. The reduction of value added tax to medicines, books and irreplaceable child food to 10 percent I think will certainly mean a significant relief for citizens' payments. This applies mainly to pensioners and families with children. That's what we signed up for, and that's what we're doing. It will help health insurance companies allocate more money to healthcare. I think that's indisputable, too. The abolition of health charges, which will be compensated by providers, will also help similar groups. Directly for families with children is then determined to increase the tax discount on the second child by CZK 200 per month and on the third and the other child by CZK 300 per month. I think that's a big help to our families with children. An increase of CZK 200 in average income, more than would correspond to the government statement approved by the valuation scheme, and the re-establishing of the tax deduction for working pensioners will help this group of citizens significantly affected by the pseudoreforms of the previous right-wing government. And it must be said that the previous coalition government, in which Minister Kalousek sat, took the tax on the discount to our working pensioners, and it is also necessary to give it back to them. It is also necessary to valorise pensions, and this includes the state budget. However, they were not only pensioners and families with children who were directly affected by the so-called. Reform experiments of previous governments. These were also public salaries, which were strongly pushed by previous governments into a real decline. Today, former Minister Kalousek talks about eating. I don't know what kind of food they're talking about. Brain-eating? He means, of course, the salaries of civil servants. I think it's perfectly right to give them back what's theirs and what the previous right-wing coalition government has taken. And I think that the 3.5 percent they're gonna get, and they're gonna get from November of this year, I think it's totally deserved. We want the state administration to be well rated. Of course, you'll object to her working well. I totally agree with that. Yes, for money, for good money, or I could imagine a better money, of course, but I'm sure that's not what the reality of today is responsible for, I'm sure it's also worth adding, I agree. However, this is far from all that has certainly accumulated in the field of salaries and needs to be addressed. I would also like to mention, of course, our police officers, who have thus lost 10 per cent on their salary thanks to the previous government. So we're not giving them anything, we're just trying to make up for what they lost. However, the coalition's programming intentions are not only reflected in the promotion of private consumption, because, of course, the increase in salaries is the promotion of private consumption. In order to strengthen economic growth, the means for transport infrastructure are increasing, the re-establishing of the green oil system strengthens agriculture, not least the share of investment supporting economic growth is increasing significantly in the draft budget. Of course, criticism from the opposition has been said here, to this I can say: yes, there may have been higher investment funds in some budgets of previous governments, but the question is how they were handled, how individual projects were prepared, so that the funds could be implemented. Of course, in 2013, the former coalition beat in the breasts, as it reduced the deficit to 81 and some small ones, but it should also be said what caused it. This was due to the fact that the investment funds simply failed to be realised because they were not well prepared projects for their implementation. Of course, this is what the current government wants to avoid, and it wants projects to be prepared so well that investment funds are implemented. What is equally important is that all these priorities are proposed to be implemented in parallel with the decline in the deficit, which I have already mentioned here, which will therefore be 120 billion compared to the originally planned deficit. reduced to 100 billion. Crowns. I was talking about the compound tax quota here. To secure programme priorities while maintaining a deficit of 100 billion. Of course, a strengthening of the revenue of the state budget is also envisaged. That's what the Minister has been talking about, so I won't repeat it. Of course, this is also the case with the involvement of state-owned enterprises and participations, e.g. increasing the payment from harvested minerals or involving resources from organisations from the agricultural resort. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the government has presented a well-developed budget to the Chamber of Deputies, a budget that links the elements to further correct public finances with measures that significantly also correct the overall economic and social environment in the Czech Republic, that this budget is the maximum possible. As the rapporteur said, the budget was also supported by the budget committee, which therefore recommended that we adopt the basic parameters - because at first reading we approve basic parameters such as revenue, expenditure, deficit, relations with self-government budgets - to adopt this budget. And on behalf of the Social Democracy Club, of course, I am saying that the Social Democracy Club will support this budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u43	Thank you. Furthermore, with priority rights, the debate is attended: President Stanjura, then Deputy Prime Minister Babiš and then Mr Klaška. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. First of all, a few responses to the President's speech to the Committee on Budgets. First of all, I agree that next year, if the law which we have passed were to apply, public budgets would lose 20 billion. That's right. Those 20 billion. would remain a citizen. That's also true. And when we say we take them away from them, that's our interpretation that taxes are increasing. We agree on the number, maybe we don't agree that it hasn't been effective yet, but the law was valid. This means that if this government coalition - today or tomorrow is the law in the Senate, I assume it has a majority there, that it will be approved by the Senate - if it had not made that change, next year, just as the chairman of the budget committee said, public budgets, that is, the state budgets of the regions, the municipalities would have lost 20 billion. But these 20 billion. would remain taxpayers. [[11.30 hours]] The President of the Committee on Budgets spoke of a compound tax quota, and of course he knows how it counts. I wouldn't suspect for a second that he didn't know. As GDP grows, so autonomously, the compound tax quota decreases autonomously. This is absolutely logical and it is correct, only it is not the credit of any government, because when GDP grows, the tax quota is simply decreasing. It's a kind of indicator that's very often used. We can lead a controversy about his speaking capacity, but I agree that for years the draft state budget applies to both a simple tax quota and a compound tax quota. So that's about 20 billion. I'm sure taxes are going up. Likewise, in the bill itself, the chairman of the budget committee here said that no one would increase their taxes. I was here about raising the tax on investment funds. I quote for some and in some sectors, I will not say for all. Yes, for these, the taxes are also rising back to 19 percent. If the President of the Committee on Budgets has said that there are already budget revenues, for example, from the fees for extracted minerals, he knows as well as I do that, according to the Constitutional Court's case-law, these fees have the character of taxes. And they also have to be treated this way from the point of view of the legislative process, they have to be regulated by law, etc. And at the same time, he's going to say, "We're raising this place." And the sentence before that says, "We don't raise taxes." They cannot apply, Mr President of the Committee on Budgets through the Vice-President, both sentences. Pays one or the other. I agree that this is not a high amount in the overall budget. However, I wanted to return to the basic parameters that we have to discuss today, which means total revenue, total expenditure and deficit. A lot has already been said about the deficit, perhaps even about spending. I think the debate on individual expenditures belongs to committees and to second reading. I was surprised by the extraordinarily low estimate of tax revenue in that budget. If you look at and compare the approved budget of 2014 and the draft budget of 2015, for example in VAT, you will take the figures that are on the Ministry of Finance's website, i.e. performance of tax revenues for nine months, the government is really proposing zero growth in VAT collection for next year against 2014. And I'm asking why. In my opinion, the government is right, it is some average of all the institutions that make macroeconomic forecasts, estimates or estimates a growth of 2,5 percent of GDP, a figure that I think you can agree with the opposition that is a figure that corresponds to many estimates of many reputable institutions. That's about 100 billion if I round it up, 2 percent of GDP. Various economists agree that about one third of GDP growth will end up in tax revenue. So let's do some 30 billion, so we don't do 33.3. But the government is not suggesting an increase in VAT collection. I am based on nine-month figures, when the VAT collection in the state budget is higher by 8 billion against the plan in nine months, which is the assumption in the normal course of the last quarter that at the end of the year will be plus 10 billion. Against the plan, I don't think there's any imaginary number. And we'll see what the numbers will be in ten months in 14 days. But at the same time, the government is proposing an increase in VAT against the 2014 plan by 10 billion for next year. At the same time, the government has figures on budget implementation in the first nine months, or eight, if I were to say at the time when the government was discussing the draft state budget. Or six when the material was formed, where the number was even higher than the previous year and with the plan. So my question is: why are tax revenues at least in the VAT item and in the corporate tax item so low in terms of performance? Of course we can think of a political answer. The government is building a pillow here. She's very well aware that the income will be higher. And next year, at some point in this period, he's going to say, "We've managed better because we were planning a deficit of 100 billion." and the deficit may be 80 billion. This would be true at the moment, as I said a moment ago in a factual reminder, if the deficit reduction were to be done on the expense side. Not on the revenue side. So the question of both the petitioner and the rapporteur is whether they are sure that these numbers are realistic. Whether they are artificially reduced in those chapters tax income. Because the results for the nine months of the 2014 budget suggest that you are actually forecasting the same VAT collection in terms of GDP growth and that - and I do not deny it, the government is taking some measures to improve its selection. So these are two reasons for the selection in the total sum being higher than this year. Yet in the draft budget, the figure doesn't count on it. And the other thing. Very often, government officials talk about increased investment. The President of the Committee on Budgets said: one thing was a plan and the other was a fact. I think we need to agree with that. But in this notebook, the report on the draft state budget on page 8 is table number 4, and if we take capital spending, there is no plan for 2011, 2012, 2013, but the reality. I don't remember what the plan was in 2011, but when assessing the number submitted by the government, we read: Capital spending, reality 2011 119 billion, reality 2012 less than 114 billion, reality 2013, this is last year's year, 102 billion. And now we have a plan. Logically. For 2014 74.3. And for 2015 75.6. But at the same time, when we criticize it, the government says, "This number doesn't really match reality, we're going to raise that number." So the question is, why isn't the increased number in the draft state budget when the government already knows that the number is going to be higher? And I'm going to ask you for a prognosis when we talk about the reality of 2015, if they've estimated the fact that the reality will be at 2013 level, that means plus 27 billion. against the plan. Or it's actually going to be by 2012, which means almost plus 40 billion. I think those are interesting numbers. And when we talk so often, and the minister spoke about it in the introductory words, when he said about the rail expenditure, if I put it simply, the subsidy, in simple terms, remains actually the same plus inflation item on the edge. This is logical if the government postpones opening the market. Then it's logical that the number just won't be lower. And so we criticize that opening up markets is postponed because it brings two effects. And we know it from the Ostrava-Prague track. Firstly, the reduction of the money needed by the state to put into rail transport. And secondly, and this is equally important, if not more importantly, a reduction in prices and an increase in comfort for passengers. In this case, we have, and we have had this experience for many years, both are true. The state is costing money and passengers, which are key in today's transport on this line is paying much less than years ago when there was a monopoly. [[unintelligible]] And they have much service, including the national carrier, which has improved greatly, it has to be said, under the weight of competition, that he too has reduced prices and improved services. [[better]] But if we take the draft budget of the SFDI, which we are not discussing, but where the state budget subsidy is within the total revenue, and once again I take the material, it is the House press 342, and there is an important item called national spending in the SFDI. And this is where we heard about the massive increase. But that table says otherwise. The table says that in 2014, which is this year, it was 43 billion, last year it was 44 and next year 44 is forecasted or planned. This means, it is not a reduction, it would not be fair to say that investments from national sources are being reduced, but it is not even an increase. Yes, it is, by one billion, most of which is to choose more on highway signs, something on toll, something on excise duty. But basically, the amount is the same. So I don't know where they get government officials, where they have support in numbers, that they say they're going to increase in a forceful way. Government figures, whether they are the press of the state budget or the House press, which concerns the budget of the SFDI, say otherwise. [[11.40 hours]] In my performance, I wanted to highlight and talk about basic parameters. We believe that total revenue, particularly tax, is cut. That they don't match the outlook of the economy. They do not correspond to the basic parameters referred to by the government, nor to the macroeconomic analysis attached as part of this material. And our question is logical: why? Why doesn't it match the tax collection? The planned tax collection forecast for GDP growth by 2.5 percent, at least in the two items I was talking about, that is, VAT and corporate tax. We would be happy if the number of unemployed people is really reduced, which means increasing the number of employees, then the assumption is that the tax on income from dependent activities should be higher. Among other things, it is one of the arguments used by the government coalition to justify wage increases that part of the increased wage will end up in the state budget either directly as a tax on dependent activities or social insurance, or indirectly as part of health insurance budgets. However, I must agree, and it is perfectly logical, with the chairman of the budget committee, who says that the budget corresponds to government priorities and government programming statements. I think that's legitimate. But no wonder the right-wing opposition criticizes the left-wing government's programme and programme priorities. That's perfectly natural. I believe that it is true that the programme priorities, with emphasis on consumption and redistribution, are clearly reflected in the draft budget. We just don't like it. We have different concepts. But the basic question remains. Why are tax revenues so low? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u45	Thank you. I have the last one registered here with priority rights, and this is Mr Klaška. After that, we will proceed with the debate and prepare Mr Beznoska and then Mr Dolejš. [[Mr. Klaška wonders if he should go to the microphone, that someone else has been logged in before him.]] Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš canceled his application, which is why you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u46	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, allow me, too, to contribute a little to this serious debate on the draft state budget with a few comments. It follows from this discussion that the opposition criticises this draft state budget as inconsiderate, inconvenient, little money for investment, redistribution, food and so on. I'd like to make a few comments on that. First - to the economic cycle. I fear that the current government restrictions of past governments did not take sufficient account of the current phase of the economic cycle. In addition, there is an old, ancient story about a man named Josef. He was 12 brothers. He was a great favourite of his father, so the other brothers sold him into slavery in Egypt, then ancient. He got into slavery to the commander of the palace guard of Pharaoh. The pharaoh had some scary dreams that no one could tell him. Upon the proposal of the palace guard commander, this Josef gave them to him. And he said unto him, Pharaoh, seven years of fat shall come, and then seven years of skinny shall come. Pharaoh asked: "Okay, but what are we going to do? He said to him, "Build the granaries in those seven fat years, put all the surpluses that we will have into these granaries, and when seven years of skinny ones come, you will open the granaries and you can balance the crop, dryness, all that will come so that Egypt can survive." Unfortunately, past governments at that very time were implementing "needs" those saving budgets that were tying up consumption. That's how it was saved. However, it had a side effect in the fact that this country and economy had an atmosphere of investigation, concerns about the future and so on, the demand level decreased, demand base, companies had fewer orders, limited their spending, and this, of course, also led to restrictions on employment, redundancies. There was an economic global crisis that the whole world experienced. When this world, all the countries and especially our surroundings were getting out of it, our countries fell back into this crisis thanks to these past budgets, which unfortunately did not fully respect the economic cycle, precisely because in the years of skinny granaries they did not spend, if what was what, but instead collected into them. I would like to say that, from the pre-crisis level, the unemployment level of 4%, we have been working through unemployment between 7 and 8 percent a year longer than the surrounding countries, just because of the fact that back then growing Germany, which is our biggest partner and some kind of drag-on, has somewhat corrected unemployment through programmes such as scrapping. Even so, one percent of unemployment in the Czech Republic is 60 000. unemployed. One unemployed person in the Czech Republic costs 120 thousand on average. Kč. If we had higher unemployment by four percent a year longer, the cost of this unemployment was 28,8 billion. Kč. Surely some of these costs are due to debt reduction and investigation. It follows that the current phase of the economic cycle should therefore be respected. Professional economic circles tell us that economic growth is beginning. But with regard to the various risks that are also outside the Czech Republic, this growth in the beginning is fragile and therefore it still needs to be supported. As far as investment is concerned, of course, only as much money as public investment or investment projects are prepared can be invested. If they are not ready, we can include any number in the budget, the result will be the same that only as much money as projects and public investment can be invested. In view of the fact that this preparation takes some time, several years, there is more of a question about past governments, what they were doing and how many investment projects they prepared. However, national resources are involved in investment. What needs to be mentioned here are also claims from 2014, from this year or from previous years. According to the Ministry of Finance's estimate, it's supposed to be 10 to 20 billion. and also subsidies from the European Union, which should be about 80 billion this year. CZK, including agricultural; Without agriculture, about 50 billion, of which we could invest a substantial part if the projects are prepared. If not, I would very much advocate that we use at least some of the money to repair or reconstruct the roads, which is not burdened with dealing with property-law relations and can be dealt with fairly quickly by sending some of this money to the regions, to the regions. At least we'll be able to drive on better roads. Science, research and innovation. In our view, the effectiveness of the resources spent must be taken into account. If we invest in science, research and innovation, a total of about 27 billion. CZK and in patent protection we receive only 1.7 billion in the long term, mainly thanks to the patents of Professor Holý, it is necessary to focus on the effectiveness of these expensive means. I believe that we need to support the successful fields in which we are above average and look at other fields to understand the meaning and potential. [[11.50 hours]] Household consumption, i.e. eating. I don't think household consumption is a dirty word. It is a standard and important macroeconomic component of each country. In our country, it accounts for about 50 percent of GDP. The message of this budget is also that this government and this draft state budget are turning the atmosphere of some kind of distrust and skepticism into further economic development into the atmosphere of the end of the economic crisis and encouraging household consumption and their private investment. So there is an effort to restore confidence in future economic developments. It's a kind of signal, because sometimes the economy is about those signals. It is also important to underline what the chairman of the Committee on Budgets has already said that some of the excessive financial restrictions are returning to people, because they were the ones who were carrying on their shoulders the weight of the economic crisis. Although KDU-ČSL is not in favour of over-indebtion, it considers this draft budget to be adequate, pro-growth at the current stage of the economic cycle, because it supports economic growth and stabilization in its core structure, thereby promoting employment. The draft budget also adequately responds to the procyclical cuts of past political governments that contributed to the return of the economic recession between 2011 and 2013. Therefore, KDU-ČSL will agree to the draft of this budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will now proceed to a proper debate. The first is Mr Beznoska, after which Mr Dolejš will be prepared and then Mr Zahradník and others. So I'll ask Mr. Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, almost everything essential, I think it has been said here. Of course, opinions vary according to who is a member of the coalition and who belongs to the opposition. The draft state budget submitted is not good. What is very unpleasant, let's say, is that it has reversed the trends in recent years, i.e. that it turns the Czech economy into a policy of further debt. The proposed budget also collects more money from the pockets of our citizens with the naive idea that the state can manage better than they can. Sum of the sum, this budget does not benefit the Czech Republic. The state budget is prepared in a period of, say, a very favourable economic situation. This situation is, of course, primarily created by an external economic environment, but also - and I would remind you - by the responsible economic policy of previous governments, which have reduced government deficits in a difficult external economic situation and, in my view, have been honoured to overcome the dangers of the global economic crisis. Unfortunately, this trend is turning. Even - and I hear it from some government officials - the government wants to take on economic growth. Whoever moves in the economic area knows that there is a delay effect in the economy, and since most of the measures taken by the current government will not be valid until 2015, it is clear that the current growth, if any, is involved in the economy, can primarily be caused by past governments. For the first time in its history, the Czech Republic will exceed 4,000 billion gross domestic product in the indicator next year. Crowns. The economy is very likely to grow by 2.5 percent, but rather a little more. With economic recovery and, of course, with some delay, unemployment cuts will appear, which is another positive effect. Very positive news comes from the Czech National Bank. The rate of inflation is very low and favourable low interest rates are maintained for investors. A fall in prices is expected in the world commodity market. We simply have the ideal conditions to make some systemic changes, and unfortunately, this government does not intend to take advantage of these conditions in any way. It does not want to go on the path of reducing past economic burdens or the other option, and I would also understand that it would have decided to invest massively. Neither of these applies; there are no reform system changes in the area of finance. Instead of reducing the government's budget deficit with a goal or a step towards a balanced budget perspective, the government should behave with the emphasis on the structural deficit reduction criterion, so the proposed budget increases the government sector deficit, up to 2,3% of gross domestic product, with the structural deficit, which the government clearly and unambiguously decides, reaching 1,8 percent of gross domestic product in 2015. And to do that, build up the unpleasant things and what's causing it. These are mostly non-systemic measures such as green oil, the third rate of VAT, the abolition of regulatory charges, etc. etc. Of course, favourable to the government, and I'm sure it is, is a very good economic environment. This means that I will remind you that 1 percent of GDP growth in our parameters means an additional income of approximately 12 billion. Crowns. So the government will draw about 45 billion out of this bonus. CZK compared to governments with the participation of the Civil Democratic Party. Add another 20 billion that will increase the deficit of the state budget and you are getting somewhere in contrast to 65 to 70 billion. Crowns. I also found some hidden forms of further debt in the draft budget. Let me give you an example: State Environmental Fund with revenues of 1.5 billion. and expenditure 3 billion, which is a deficit of 1.5 billion, the State Housing Development Fund, where expenditure will be four times the revenue of this fund, and another 8 billion. the deficit is created on the privatisation fund. So we're still talking about how there's a steep contradiction between what's publicly declared, where I mean the investigation, with how this budget is set up. Even in one annex to the material, namely Annex H, it is stated, and I freely quote that the proposal does not implement additional restructuring on the expenditure side of public budgets. There is a high proportion of mandatorial expenditure and systemic measures are needed in terms of the long-term sustainability of public finances. - I ask, if this is stated in government material itself, why should we approve this material? Of course, the big problem on the expense page is the mandatory expenditure. Next year, they will rise to a record 713 billion. CZK, which, by the way, is 42 miles. CZK more than in the last year of the government with the participation of the Civil Democratic Party. Mandatorial spending will thus amount to almost 60 percent of total expenditure, and this is a very dangerous thing. A whole bunch of these mandatorial expenses are worth spending. You need to think about it. We've been hearing and hearing from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, how he's going to save himself, and it's always best to set his own example. I've retrieved some of the numbers I'd like to introduce you to here. For example, the government's activities will grow to a record 81 billion. koruna, i.e. it's roughly an increase of 16 percent compared to last year. Operating expenditures are increased, common at the Office of the Government by 8.5%, current expenditures at the Ministry of Finance, etc. are increased. etc. So we can't talk about the investigation in this case. And as much as we dramatically increase spending, unfortunately, and that was my previous speakers' talk, investment spending is not increasing. The 75.6, which is planned, and as much as I've heard here, it's not going to be a definitive number, I think it's very low. It is in sharp conflict with what is claimed by the public. If we'd taken it absolutely, 75,6 miles. CZK, it is a decline of about 25 percent compared to 2013 and this is quite crucial. [[12.00 hours]] From the structural changes we've been hearing, investment in infrastructure, budget - I don't see any increases there. On the contrary, there is a decline in expenditure on education. A colleague of Mr Klaška spoke about science, research and innovation. I understand that they're trying to describe that they should measure the inputs with the resulting effects. But if we saw it that way, it would mean that we will always reduce this parameter, and then the effects will be none at all, my colleague. Investment in science, research and innovation should be a clear priority and it is a very good pro-growth measure. The budget simply acts by raising more money from citizens. Although the economy is in a very solid economic recovery phase, we will create another 100-billion-dollar deficit in order to cover, above all, our promises in the coalition statement. From this point of view, I cannot and will not support the budget. One more thing to confirm the words of my colleague Stanjura. I also believe that the revenue side of the state budget is significantly underestimated, in particular under value added tax and corporate tax. It's, in my opinion, the typical pillow the Treasury Secretary makes. It is all those who handle budgets, but in this item I think that the 20 billion that we have been talking about here, and it was the proposal that I think my colleague Kalousek should go back to the draft budget with the parameter that the budget deficit would be 20 billion. He was supposed to cut down, so I think we'd find it very easy here. We would simply put real numbers on the VAT and corporate tax revenue page. So the contradiction between the alleged investigation and the investment policy and the figures in the state budget is quite significant. I will bow to those who, of course, cannot agree with the budget. I even think he deserves us to get him back to the government for rework. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have here one factual comment by Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just a reaction to a fellow speaker. Of course, each government should fulfil its programming declarations and priorities in its programming declaration to project into the budget. That's what I think every government does. There's always a downside to debt. This government will again be indebted to the state. It fits from the right side of the House when it says something like that. I would just remind you that in 2006, our national debt was 800 billion. and some change, and today, or in 2013, to be more specific, it's going to be 1 beat. 680 billion. That's double, folks. So if you want to mentor us here about how to deal with state debt, with the state budget, not indebt the country, you also need to see if you don't have a ton of butter on your head. The Minister explained here how debt will be, that essentially the ambition of this government is to stabilise the government's debt to the amount that is this year, by effectively involving the available liquidity resources of the State through the Treasury. Mr Kalousek, who I do not see here now, said nothing new under the sun - the involvement of available resources. But why didn't he do it before? And why did his debt grow so, rocketally, astronomically up, double, and did we get to where we are today? So I don't get it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u51	I thank the rapporteur for his time. Good afternoon, we continue the debate according to proper applications. Now, Mr. Jiří Dolejš, Mr. Jan Zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u52	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, government, first of all, I wish you a nice lunch before lunch. Let me make a statement on behalf of our MP on the submitted government proposal, and at the same time, along with you, whether it is true that this proposal has been the worst in the last five or six years. Because when we leave the roles that are given to us, whether we are a coalition or an opposition Member, it cannot be noted that the green light of this budget has been given to representatives on tripartite, which are employers, the dear opposition right through the President, and also to workers, i.e. trade unionists. This conflict, as the people say, does not annoy me, because it will probably not be a disastrous budget. But since I'm the leader of the leftist opposition, I wonder if he could have been better. I believe that this government, when it was created, had great ambitions. After all, there are many promises in the election, then there will be practice. But the question is whether this budget is really a crucial step forward, or whether it is simply an attempt at partial correction, and basically it is going on track and the dramatic diction of the right-wing opposition, how it eats through the country, and how everything will only be bad to worse tomorrow, is appropriate. Here's the word that it's a socialist budget. I don't know exactly what the authors of that statement meant. Maybe colleagues from YES or KDU-ČSL don't understand it, but maybe it offends them. I fear that this budget is not socialist, after all, I think my colleague from Dawn has already noticed that budgets have been made differently in a state-owned economy. At the time, rather than investing so much in government bonds, the balance was created by the fact that there were up to threefold higher contributions from state-owned enterprises, for example. It's a debate that mixes pears and apples. I believe that the good budget, firstly, corresponds to the state of the country's economy. This means that we need to hit a macroeconomic diagnosis. I think my colleague Klaška was talking about the context of the business cycle. You must always mix the goals that lead to maintaining the necessary balance, and the key imbalance, of course, is the public deficit and the economic development objectives. You can't isolate one target from another. If we do this, we basically confuse our listeners or disqualify ourselves as qualified economic operators. For these reasons, I think it would be unwise to listen to those who say that the budget should return and redo with a certain assignment. I'm not saying that the budget shouldn't be better, but the discussions that took place here from the right benches, from the right opposition, especially the ODS, TOP 09, but as I listened to my colleague Radim Fiala, he joined in re-processing, so the assignment for recasting is to return him to the former, let's say, cutting approaches. And let's just say that the diagnosis and outcome of this budgetary philosophy gives us practice. In short, during the time we were making such budgets, the Czech economy has evolved worse than our surroundings. So we cannot blame this on the economic crisis, on external influences. It is our own merit and basically we have had six seven years of stagnation of convergence, i.e. closer to the developed world, and they are breathing on our backs a country like Slovakia, Poland, etc. So I guess this budgetary philosophy is not okay, which is why I say on behalf of our political faction that we will not support the proposal to redeploy in this direction. [[12.10 hours]] As far as unionists are concerned - I understand that, of course, our voters understand that it is a good thing that some of the partial steps have been taken because they were not only in the electoral programmes of social democracy, which agreed with their coalition partners, but also in ours. The minimum wage, pension valorisation, valorisation of the existential minimum, living minimums, wage increases and the creation of more space for stronger collective bargaining, so that wages in the private sector can grow more, as this, of course, has not only a social effect, but also an incentive to buy-in demand, which is also a factor in growth. So I understand. But the question is, is it really going to be the way it's planned and painted? Litera non erubesticit - letters don't blush, but reality is often different. Let's look with sober eyes, without some prescribed ideological roles, at the figures in that budget. We are told that on the revenue side - always those measures with regard to restructuring and changing budgetary policy are on the revenue and expenditure side. So when we look at the revenue side, we learn that revenue should increase by 1.7 percent compared to plan 2014 - plan 2015. This government did not make a more fundamental impact on tax titles during this year. Let's see if we can get some surprises for 2016, but the truth is that this is the result of a fall in the tax quota, i.e. the share of tax revenue per GDP. This is a real number and equals the volume of revenue, for example, measures such as the involvement of privatisation revenues. Most of all, the expense side was discussed here. Mr. Emeritus Finance Minister Kalousek was talking about how spending is being wasted, but when I look at the numbers, I don't understand the waste. Of course, if we calculate that the economy is growing, there is a certain amount of resources available and it is possible to increase expenditure in a reasonable way. When you look at the basic table at the beginning of the explanatory report, you will learn that the total expenditure is rising by half a percent. Half a percent versus plan 2014. Some might argue that the plan is a plan, and the reality of 2014 will be different. But it is changing mainly in terms of income, because the economy is working, taxes are being collected better, in larger quantities, so there will be a smaller deficit, but the planned expenditure will largely be met. So the difference between the planned expenditures 2014 and 2015 is not really dramatic, it's 0.6%. When I thought about it, if it's a lot or a little, I did one simple operation that could be understandable to practically anyone. I took the volume of GDP, i.e. economic performance at current prices, and I divided it by the volume of expenditure, budget expenditure. I have come to the figure that for 2014, if the plan is met, it is 29,8%, or almost 30% of GDP budget expenditure. And now, look out - 2015 is coming. When I conducted the same arithmetic operation for this year, I got the number of 28.9 percent, so the planned share of GDP expenditure fell by one percentage point. So there's no drama. What makes sense, however, is, of course, the structure of these expenditures, to what extent it contributes to social justice and social reconciliation, to what extent it contributes to growth and, if capital expenditures in particular are sufficiently multiplicative, that is to say, they will bring the relevant effect. Of course, this debate has meaning. If there was such a bit of a foggy debate about whether or not there is more invested - we can research it again in any way, but probably relevant information for all of you, if you have already opened the package of about a thousand pages, which is the main package of the state budget, then you will find this page there. [[shows]] A simple page that evaluates the development of state budget capital expenditure. What are we gonna know? We will learn so much that capital expenditure will increase by 1.75% compared to the plan last year and that there is a decline in the important chapter of the Ministry of Transport in connection with a lower investment transfer to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. And there's a reason that the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure can use the unused resources from last year, which are quantified here to the extent of CZK 8.2 billion. It's to debate whether there's more or less investment. Dramatically, no less. Investment funds are strongly focused on co-financing European projects, because the lack of European money in the tens of billions would, of course, have an anti-growth character. But as far as ordinary government investment purchases are concerned, the government's capital expenditures are the other ones, so of course there's less investment money here. That's simple math, and I think it's true. So it can be said that this budget, given the optimistic expectations of economic development, is somewhat more generous in terms of social transfers as well as in terms of certain investment objectives. But overall, it's not prognostic. This is not a fiscal impulse, i.e. it does not release more money for consumption or investment in the economy, and therefore it does not help what we are actually carrying so far, and this is the cycle of economic recovery, which is largely conditional on exogenous, i.e. external factors. I understand that if we were here questioning the government's forecast on which the state budget, which was created in a known consensual way in July or June of this year, would probably be a futile order to change this forecast. Of course, I can always variation different prognostic alternatives. But what is the fact - that the risks we are talking about have increased significantly compared to July. And if those risks prove very likely to come to fruition, logically, the argument that pro-growth measures are inadequate is hidden in the draft state budget. The risks are relevant. I think the Minister has already spoken in his opening words, and it has been said repeatedly here that there are certain geopolitical risks, see the trade war. We don't know what the energy market will do to us. It signals the American stock market that it is cooling off because it fears that developments in the world economy will be different than we thought during the summer months. The correction of its forecast is done by Germany, Slovakia etc. etc. The monetary fund authorities have announced that the return of the recession to the European Union is very likely. They've calculated 40 percent, you'll admit that there's not a completely negligible degree of probability. So if this is what the risks look like, we can't support the efforts to return the budgetary policy to the tracks that Mr Kalousek has pulled here, but we certainly can't cheer up either. I understand that coalition must guard the coalition compromise. But don't be surprised that we judge this coalition compromise as half-hearted, not crucial, and a compromise that doesn't solve the problems that are pouring out on us. And for this reason, I will also - I will give the final verdict - this draft budget, so now we are talking about the basic figures that we approve at first reading, we will not support in the way that we stay. Thank you for your attention. I believe that the debate in question will continue. Everyone, as they say, rechnungsfeldwebel can look at accounts, but he doesn't always take into account the complex view of economic philosophy. I would like us not to lose this ability in this dignified body, but rather to cultivate it. Thank you again. And it'll be lunch in a minute, so it'll be a good meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u53	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš. Even before the duly registered colleague Jan Zahradník with a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u54	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, also with the wish of good tasting, thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond to the speech of the Chairman of the Votava Budget Committee, who said: how can you afford to master us when you have so much and so much debt to the Czech Republic? Yes, of course, in times of unprecedented crisis, no country of the European Union was able to budget deficits. That means, logically, the debts went up. However, an indicator that clearly expresses the will of governments to stabilise public budgets is the level of structural deficit. It is cleared of extraordinary influences, from the cyclical effects of the economy, and it shows whether the government has the will to go to balanced budgets or not. We took over the structural deficit at 5% on the point of collapse at the time of the state's debt crisis and we had to fight in the financial markets for the confidence of the Czech Republic and we reduced the structural deficit in spite of very unfavourable conditions at 1.4 percent per year, which is the figures of Minister Babiš. We really were saving up. You went in the opposite direction. You're really not saving up, and you're increasing the structural deficit. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u55	Thank you for keeping the point of fact to Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Now, Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I look at it, I will probably be the first to address a specific part of that budget in my contribution, a specific budget chapter, and therefore not to talk about global figures, not to criticise it from a global point of view, but to try to look at one chapter, one that is close to me in terms of my membership in the Committee on the Environment and in which I have found some things that I would like to mention here, which I would like to draw attention to. In Chapter 315, this is the Ministry of the Environment, income is reduced from around 10 billion. 728 miles. 7 billion. 326 miles. and a spending limit of 12 billion. 958 miles. $9 billion. 411 miles. That's no wonder. First of all, it is not any savings, as it may seem at first sight, but it is because the main task and activity of this is the financing of the Operational Programme Environment, where there are probably no major activities expected in 2015. It's kind of the year that's unfortunately at the turn of the programming period. But the question is that current expenditure, i.e. operating expenditure, is increasing from 2 billion. 907 miles. 3 billion. 93 miles, that's 186 miles. So the operating expenses are rising. Thus, capital expenditures fall, even to 6,9 percent compared to 2014. This is once again a possible consequence of the fact that we do not expect any major activities in the area of drawing up European Union funds. So I say again, there are no savings here, on the contrary, operating expenses are rising by 186 miles. Crowns. What is interesting and what is seen in the table with number 8 in the table section of our budget is that some chapters also contain the budget appropriations for the programming period that we have ahead of us. All these budget appropriations, all of these chapters have been included in the completion of the programming period 2007-2013, so we will probably be finishing some projects, programmes, but some ministries, some chapters do not have budgeted activities for the 2014-2020 programming period. They need funding, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, industry and trade, transport, agriculture, MMR. They are not mentioned in the defence, Ministry of the Interior, by me mentioned Ministry of Environment, Education, Health. What does that mean? So are we not counting on any expenditure from the 2014+ Operational Programme in 2015 or on expenditure related to technical assistance? So why aren't these expenditures mentioned in the draft budget? Therefore, even the so-called ones will not be announced this year. fast challenges, fast projects or calls for quick projects - boiler replacement, building insulation, which are projects or challenges that can be announced quite quickly and managed quickly and can also help very quickly? The question is also what will be financed by the expenditure on administration of challenges for the new Operational Programme Environment. That is, if there is no technical assistance in the budget of Chapter 315. And what if there is an increase in the need for funding over the course of the year to the very new OPZP that may occur due to some unexpected circumstances? So how will the increase in the necessary co-financing be addressed? There is one other thing I would like to mention, and that is Table 11 in the proposal, which therefore concerns the number of employees and the cost of salaries, namely employees in central bodies, namely the Ministry of Environment. There is an increase in the number of employees from 558 to 579, i.e. by 21 employees, and the volume on their salaries is increasing by 20 million. CZK 265 million. At 285 miles. Crowns. It should be noted and recalled that 555 employees were registered in the 2013 final account after the amendments were approved, which was 91.46 % of the total of 525 employees. So what is the occupancy of these translated seats, as it is in the Ministry, with how are the translated seats occupied, when there is an increase of 5 per cent? An objection that could be expressed that it is already an employee for the new Operational Programme Environment, and I think it appears in one of the tables of our proposal, it is table number 16 - the number of employees' posts involved in the drawing of funds, where there is once again a one-time increase. So if we do not calculate the costs, the funds for the new operational programme, why are we increasing the number of workers? And my last comment to the Minister of Finance: when we all know how resources are falling, outside the budget resources for the State Environmental Fund, for example, for the disposal of car wrecks, these revenues are clearly going down significantly, as the Minister will look for a way to keep resources for the State Environmental Fund so that he is ready to co-finance and finance programmes that, in my opinion, are very important for our Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u57	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. With the factual remark of the rapporteur, Mr Votava, then Mr Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I do not want to respond to my colleague, Zahradník, only to the previous speech by Mr Kalousek, who is very fond of the structural deficit. He's always training us out of him. I would like to remind him of his fiscal outlook of May 2013, when he anticipated a structural deficit of 2.1 % next year, the fact of the budget is 1.8 %, and for 2016 Mr Kalousek even expected 2.4 %, and the outlook for this government is 1.7 %.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u59	I thank the rapporteur, the President of the Committee on Budgets, for his factual point. Now, Mr. Vilímec. Mrs Chalánková will be ready. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u60	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike Mr Zahradník, his speech is rather in the general view of the draft state budget presented. You see, the Minister of Finance presented a very detailed draft state budget, but in principle he limited himself to quoting the sentences of a commentary or a report accompanying the draft state budget. Of the many items and phrases he mentioned, two interesting points were made. You will not find one comment in the draft state budget report. The Minister of Finance said "investments will grow" The former Minister Kalousek and the others have already made it clear that not only the tables, but the column graphs show something completely different. He then repeated what is stated in the draft state budget that despite the deficit of 100 billion. CZK, which is planned, will not increase the koruna state debt to 31. 12. 2015. I would return to these things in my speech as well, because I think that the issue of financing sovereign debt is important to understand the diversity of the categories we are talking about. The first reading of the state budget, which I had experienced in the past, was mostly slipping into the debate over the relevance of the prediction of macroeconomic indicators for drawing up the budget. This time, many debaters have not had this discussion. I will admit that I have always considered the debate on who better hits the forecasts, whether the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, the Czech National Bank or others, rather as an academic discussion, although of course the correct setting of predictions is crucial in terms of the compilation of the main budget items. What I have always been most interested in in summary figures and, above all, in the first reading of the budget was the optimization of the sustainability of the financing of the state budget so that the deficit balance of the state budget would gradually decrease in the years of economic growth, both as a percentage and as a absolute one. Between 2011 and 2013, there was considerable effort to reduce both, which led to a reduction in the government sector deficit and the structural balance, which was also mentioned here. What does the government coalition offer us this time in the draft state budget for 2015? It is based on a forecast for gross domestic product growth of 2,5 %, presenting a budget of 100 billion. The new deficit and the explanatory memorandum itself state that the government sector deficit should rise to 2,3% next year, while the updated estimate of the management result for this year expects a deficit of 1,5 %. You must admit that such budgetary objectives cannot be applauded in any way. If this were accompanied by what Mr Kalousek mentioned here and, above all, Mr Zeman mentioned that we must invest in growth - not to say that Mr Kalousek claims this, but Mr Zeman claims it - then the idea of the draft budget could still be understood. Unfortunately, it doesn't. No increase in investment in infrastructure can be seen, or vice versa. If I were looking for a vision or a story of this budget, I could only find it in increasing the mandatorial expenditures. Let's look at the specific numbers. That's what needs to be seen. Mandatorial expenditures, and this has already been quoted here, based on the law under applicable laws, are once again increasing to a total amount of 668 billion. CZK and against the facts of last year, i.e. 2013, this is an increase of almost 40 billion. Kč. While the total mandatorial expenditure, that is to say, the other mandatorial expenditures, apart from those mandatorial expenditures financed by law, total mandatorial expenditures amounted to 61.5 percent of the total revenue in the last year 2013. I think it is more sensible to apply this to total revenue, not expenditure, which, of course, also includes further deepening the deficit. Next year, according to this draft state budget, it should be 63,8 % already. When we look at the sum of total mandatory and so-called quasi-mandatory expenses, i.e. expenditure on the wages of the organisational units of the state, it amounts to almost 929 billion. Kč. And I point out, it's an amount of 20 billion. higher than in the case of the approved budget for this year, and by more than 50 billion. CZK higher than the fact of the sum of the mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenditures last year. So how much of the total revenue will remain for further use this year, not only for investment but also for further use? Only less than 190 billion. CZK, while last year it was 215 billion. Kč. Here you can see that the part of the available resources from the planned revenue that the state budget can use for any other expenditure than the expenditure of the mandatorial or statutory expenditure is still decreasing. The State budget provides for debt service expenditure of 64.5 billion. Kč. I don't want to discuss whether the amount corresponds or contains some hidden pillow. It used to be that way in the past. That's not so crucial at the moment. The increase in the debt service shows that the financing of the state debt is taking up more and more resources that we could use in a much more meaningful way. Yet, even at a time of economic growth, a budget with a 100-billion-dollar deficit is presented without reflecting capital spending. Bottom line, this budget doesn't increase capital expenditure. This budget reduces capital expenditure, not only in 2013 or in 2011 and 2012, but also in 2012 and 2011. The only year 2013 mentioned here by Mr Dolejš was the year in which expenditure increased by something in the draft budget compared to this year's proposal. [[12.40 hours]] The only year 2013 mentioned here by Mr Dolejš was the only year where expenditure increased by something in the draft budget compared to this year's proposal. When I studied the structure of social expenditure in detail, and I think that it is also worthwhile, including a follow-up commentary, I did not miss the complimentary words in the passage on pension expenditure to right-wing governments if you were to study this draft budget, where there is a lower rate of growth in pension expenditure, it is 1.6 per cent, the Minister also spoke about this in the commentary on the positive impact of the measures implemented by the two major amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which set parametric changes in the law in order to slow the rate of growth in pension expenditure. It's a little different from what we usually hear from government coalition politicians at the address of past governments. Now, the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. Government members should clearly agree whether to criticise these changes in laws or, on the contrary, to assess them positively. Both are impossible. Dear colleagues, I don't want to talk much longer and I don't want to label this draft state budget. In any event, it will bring another deficit of 100 billion planned. Kč. The effects for the future offer very small. The Minister of Finance likes to state, and he again said today that he is proposing a state budget deficit of 100 billion. CZK, but the government debt will not grow. It adds some new management approach to debt portfolio management. Indeed, the State debt financing and management strategy for this year envisaged, in the base scenario, an increase in gross government debt in principle of the budgeted deficit of this year. This strategy, and this needs to be underlined, was also based on the fact that the reserve of funds for pre-financing the future borrowing needs of the State, which is assessed in the short term on the money market as part of the Treasury account, will not be significantly reduced. When the Minister set an example here in a factual remark on 30 September of this year, when despite the higher deficit or despite the budget deficit, the koruna government debt fell, it is always necessary to look at quarterly information on the evolution of the government debt. You will read there that despite the reported deficit of 34 billion. CZK 30. 9. The amount of gross government debt actually decreased by 330 million compared to the end of 2013. Kč. That's exactly what the Treasury said. Today, the Minister repeated it, and many media have also quoted it. But if you look in detail at the quarterly report and the structure of the debt, you will find that this was possible only for one reason, namely that the reserve of funds was reduced by 38.2 billion. CZK, to the value of 24.5 billion. Kč. I'll admit I can't predict options. I do not have the necessary evidence to support the possibility of further involvement of the Treasury's resources in the refinancing of the debt. Even the report speaks of the assumption that the reserve is involved in so-called. a pension account. Provisions created for pension reform and not for financing state debt. When you look at the comment on the state debt, in the draft state budget, it is limited to a general one-year statement that there will be a reduction in the reserve of funds and a possible refinancing of the State from the Treasury system, depending on the actual development of the state budget deficit. I consider this to be completely inadequate from the point of view of a very ambitious and courageous claim that the budget deficit will be 100 billion. CZK, but the amount of state debt will not change. We'll wait, we'll see next year. I'll admit I don't really believe that statement. But even if some free means could not allow a koruna increase in government debt, this will not change the fact that we are once again increasing the overall budget deficit, to which the government must issue government bonds. After discussing the budget in the government, the Minister said that everyone likes the budget. They like social partners, they like employers, they don't like opposition. I don't like this budget. That is why I am not part of the opposition, but because this budget is not investment, it is not for investment, as it is spoken, or reducing the deficit. It only increases the mandatorial expenses. If it makes social partners happy, I don't know. Maybe the current union bosses, but I don't want to judge that. In my opinion, this budget is at least 2.5 percent of GDP missed in the situation of expected growth, and it speaks of the capacity and rather of the budget cluelessness of this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u61	I thank Mr Vladislav Vilímc. The words will be taken by Mrs Jitka Chalánková and prepared by Petr Bendl, who will speak now or after the break. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not direct my speech to the social field, although it is the closest area to me, but I will keep that for the second reading of this state budget. I wanted to mention another matter. Both the drawing up of the state budget and the whole area of economics are primarily social science. The numbers here today are going to be a little less. And social science because elementary solidarity between citizens must work in society. Why do I say that? This solidarity is reflected primarily in who citizens then choose in the elections, and this is how politicians or parties offer them an offer to vote for them. According to this, we have the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. But citizens choose freely, it is a matter of free choice, and they can also freely choose whether they want to be solidarity generations with generations, older ones with younger ones, etc. I'll look into more specific examples. We as the TOP 09, and especially me for the social sector, because it is an area that I have long been engaged in, we have not had an entirely simple position and we have pushed through relatively unpopular measures, which concern e.g. a reduction in pension valorisation, and we have also received a result in elections, where this has often been blamed on us. Yet we had to take these measures, and yet we perceive that the current government has already abolished this measure, even though it should have been only one year and could still live on the proceeds of this kind of steaming this year. This valuation of pensions will bring additional costs in the next year 7.1 billion. Kč. Who wouldn't wish it on the elderly? We wish them well, too. Unfortunately, there isn't a cash register in a building on Letenská Street where an unworthy finance minister wouldn't want to spend money, and the good finance minister would like to issue it because he promised. There's no cash register like that. The money's not there. We're borrowing the money, and someday somebody's gonna have to pay it. I'll get to that. It's also a question of the whole social chapter, but I'll keep it for the next time. Just pointing out the ticking bomb. In addition to the absolute increase, there is a relative increase in the mandatory component of this chapter. If discounts on children, on the taxpayer and on children were approved in September, I must say that such discounts on children were also applied for us, under right-wing governments, also, only now they have been increased. [[12.50 hours]] The discount on the child was always 13 404 crowns and went up to the tax bonus, we do not need to go into details. So let's not forget that right-wing governments also allowed these discounts. It was now claimed that for the second child this discount was increased by CZK 200 a month and for each additional child by CZK 300 a month. This is certainly commendable toward families with children. There are other options. I, too, have tried to apply some of them. There is a possibility, for example. average the contributions to the taxpayer, the tax discounts on the taxpayer, which has a discount of CZK 24,840, and the child, for us it was CZK 13,404 per year, these add up and average. It is certainly beneficial to support families with children. It is only to KDU-ČSL Members that it is another option, another option with certain impacts on the state budget. Who wouldn't? Furthermore, there is talk of household consumption, but it is forgotten that household consumption will not create a perpetuum mobile that would draw GDP on its own. This consumption can't do it. We must focus primarily on creating added value in the state economy of our society. So, I'm going to conclude, I'm really going to go into the details in that chapter at second reading. We're still 100 billion. missing. We need to borrow them on certain better terms, or, as has already been suggested, perhaps even worse conditions and will be paid back by our children. The establishment of the state budget is indeed a social science and it is a matter of free citizens' decisions whether they want to be solidarity or not. We asked seniors for solidarity in society with young generations, it was also our responsibility, the responsibility of the political party TOP 09. And it's a matter for these voters whether they want to be solidarity or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u63	I thank Mrs Jitka Chalánková and Mr Petr Bendl will take the floor. I'm asking if he'll still have time within 13 hours, or we'll split it in two. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to say a few words about the budget, and not so much about the overall budget, although, of course, I may surprise someone. I was not surprised by this draft budget. Every time left-wing governments ruled in the Czech Republic, more was spent, more officials were recruited, less invested. After all, it is also seen in this draft budget. Eating, virtually. the total amount of mandatorial expenditure is less than 59 per cent. It has never been like this in the history of the Czech Republic. However, let the government coalition compare with that, where some members of the government coalition have criticized in the past the things that are now, I will say, the essence and cornerstone of this draft state budget. We spend more on mandatorial spending than on investment at a time of economic growth. We're not saving as much as we could, and maybe we're kind of playing with the idea, and it's already been said here today that there's going to be more of that income and we're going to pretend that we've managed better. But it's not about better management, it's about better or higher tax collection, because the economy is going up. I would like to drop by a bit at the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, a chapter that traditionally lives largely on European subsidies, which I believe are a dangerous drug for all those moving in the field of agriculture. The more subsidies, the more imbalances, the more injustice in this area and, of course, the more risks they will bring to the very processes that redistribute tens of billions of crowns a year from European money and, of course, from state budget money. It is forgotten, or one thing has not yet been mentioned here today, that the Department of the Ministry of Agriculture has helped the current state budget with an unprecedented amount, because in the past, or in the short past, in the time of right-wing governments, profits have increased several times in particular from about 700 million Czech Forests. CZK to a level of approximately 4 billion. per year. And the state budget takes advantage of this fact and takes funds from the past at an unprecedented amount of 8.7 billion. Crowns. It is partly composed of the money of the Forests of the Czech Republic and, albeit a little less, it takes the state budget from the profit of Budvar. It's about half a billion this year, last year it was, I feel, 0.8 billion. Crowns. There are some things in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget, some concrete steps that have not been seen in other chapters in the past, and they are not, I have to say here. In a number of cases, the number of officials is reduced. Thanks to the transformations that have taken place in the past, and I have to say strongly here in the time of right-wing governments, and we have been very critical of that, and hundreds of official jobs are declining in the agriculture department, there is less bureaucracy and it is visible on the draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. It may be an absent-minded agricultural minister all day, but it has to be said here that it goes at the expense of the painful transformations that have been in the agricultural department in the past, and it is evident that there is relatively politely saving money on the mandatorial spending due to these actions that the right-wing governments have taken in the past. Unfortunately, the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture does not reflect too much and itself, or the petitioner or the Ministry of Finance admits it and the Ministry of Agriculture, that there are insufficient funds in the field of water management and forestry. In the field of forestry, there is a kind of promise in the text that the state would want about 300 million missing in the future. Crowns, which are the means that in the past... As follows: The forestry industry has gone about 600 miles in the past. Kroner, 300 is now being proposed. If you take into account the fact that the funds coming into the forestry area and, in particular, into the management of non-state forests, that is, municipal, private, etc., where the state has different forms of support for forest development, these funds are often greatly reduced from the regions. There are regions to be honored, the money they have received in the past from the state to support forestry, still using this direction. As far as I know, it's e.g. South Moravian Region, but e.g. The Central Bohemia Region does not essentially give money received from the State to support forestry in forests and in this area. And it's a shame. Adding to this the fact that the state will also resign from forestry through it, I will say, not to support this important agricultural sector, then it is necessary to expect future problems in the forestry sector. But I understand left-wing government, just trees aren't a voting base with their branches, so no one cares so much and it doesn't really matter whether we put money in this area or not. At the same time, I think the area of water management is also ignored significantly. It is good that there are funds for flood-related activities, for buildings related to the unpleasant past and experience that the Czech Republic has, where the state wanted and wants to prevent floods as such. There's a figure of 1.6 billion. Crowns. I am convinced that this could be even more, because obviously there are no financial resources available to clean rivers, clean streams and manage streams of streams, because there are huge reserves and such rapid floods that always bring us weather are a source of significant inconvenience, especially in small towns and villages, where water cannot be contained in the landscape. The streams and streams and rivers are, I will say, long unmaintained and it would be necessary to keep the finances at least at the level at which they were in the past, because otherwise we cannot fully cope with the situation. [[13.00 hours]] I don't want to talk about the details of the budget here, which I think will be the subject - and in individual organisations it will probably be the subject - of debate on the agricultural committee. However, it is evident that the trend of strengthening investment in technology, investments in the agri-food sector in this area based on this year's budget, holds that there is pressure to put more investment money into the agri-food sector in companies that are concerned with this. However, what I may mention in 2015, is the fact that the Czech Republic, unlike other countries such as Slovakia, can draw some European money this year, into transport infrastructure, for example, so the Czech Republic is not, and it also shows in the draft chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture budget that the Ministry of Agriculture is already counting on these funds for next year. It is good, I just have to sigh here at the expense of those of you who often criticize the fact that the Czech Republic, for example, has not exhausted some of the EU's funds or threatens to run out of them, so if we start drawing European money a year later, which is basically the same thing that happened in 2007, even then the Czech State began to draw European money at least a year later, it will threaten in 2020 that not all of the funds provided from Europe will be spent again. This is the risk that the 2015 budget brings with it, which does not reflect the fact that the Czech Republic, unlike other countries, has not been able to prepare for the drawing of European money this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u65	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. I will interrupt the meeting at the meeting of the Organizing Committee and the lunch break with the fact that after lunch break at 14.30 we will start with a fixed point, i.e. Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies concerning the organisation of Thursday, as we announced yesterday afternoon. The relevant press has been handed over to you, so 24 hours will expire by then and then we will continue with the debate on the state budget. The first one to be logged in after lunch break, and after that, Mr Karel Fiedler is a fixed item. Enjoy your meal. The Organizing Committee will begin in five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open an afternoon meeting, but I do have a request from the ANO MEP. I ask the Vice-President of the MP's club to make his request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u67	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask, on behalf of our ANO MP, for a half-hour break that we would start at three o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u68	I thank the Vice-President. I'm registering this request and interrupting the House meeting, if you don't mind, by 15 o'clock. Thank you, colleagues, and I look forward to being here at 15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-004-001.u69	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Let me welcome you, I hope, after a good lunch, to the next meeting of our day. The next item is point 106.
