ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u1	60. Government bill amending Act No. 334/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund, as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund, as amended /German press 339/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Environment, Mr Richard Brabec. I beg you, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honor to launch a marathon of today's points, although the introduction has already been provided for me by better actors than I am. Let me just remind you that the Act on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund has only been amended once at the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment. It was 1999 and other subsequent amendments were always made in connection with other legislation. The last major amendment to which this amendment actually responds was implemented by Law No. 402/2010 Coll., which has been effective since 1. 1. 2011. And somehow for many of you who were here, while I was not here, this amendment was part of the measures to mitigate the impact of the then disproportionately high support for renewable energy sources on the state budget and in the area of the protection of the agricultural soil fund only increased the levy on the withdrawal of agricultural land and thus changed the share of the financial revenue from the levy between beneficiaries. The beneficiary of the levy became the new state budget. To put it briefly, it was mainly a reaction to the acquisition of agricultural land for photovoltaic power plants and then, in some cases, the exemption fee from the agricultural soil fund was changed more than twenty to thirty times. The main circuits of this novel, the one I have the honour to present. In particular, the amendment strengthens the protection of the agricultural soil fund, both qualitative and quantitative. In particular, in the field of qualitative protection, new obligations on the owner or, where appropriate, other persons who are entitled to use agricultural land, such as tenants, are added in order to ensure anti-erosion soil protection. Furthermore, it introduces a legal framework for the creation of a system of information on the quality of agricultural land, meaning what is their content, such as the content of risk elements and risky substances, as well as procedures for pollution of agricultural land or the threat of erosion of agricultural land, and introduces, of course, relatively strict and effective sanctions. In the area of quantitative protection, the protection of the highest quality agricultural land is strengthened. A new provision on exemptions from the payment of levies for permanent removal of land from the agricultural soil fund is laid down, for example, levies will not be paid on railway constructions, if the construction worker and subsequently the owner of the State, and roads owned by the State, as well as bike paths with a permeable surface, if the construction is in accordance with the principles of territorial development, respectively the zoning plan and other points. In the scale for the calculation of the levies annexed to this amendment, the existing environmental weights of influence are left to be multiplied by only one, i.e. the highest environmental weight of influence. So far, these environmental weights have been added up, which, of course, has increased significantly further this fee. The environmental weight of the impact shall not then be applied, this is important for constructions for production or storage related to such production placed on areas of production and storage intended for that purpose by a zoning plan approved by the end of 2010, i.e. until the turn-over period from 1 January 2010 onwards. 1. 2011 there was a substantial increase, and also for production, or storage on areas intended to promote balanced and dynamic economic development of the State, which, under the Investment Incentives Act, is approved by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. These exemptions will then be reflected in a reduction in the removal levies in industrial zones, which are burdened by some environmental weight of influence due to the declared protection of the territory. This means that the basic levy at today's agricultural land prices can reach a maximum of CZK 170 to 180 per square metre and will not be multiplied by, say, twenty in these cases, which means that the value could then reach up to CZK 3,000 per square metre when such agricultural land is set aside. Furthermore, the amendment regulates the competence of the authorities to protect the agricultural soil fund in order to create the right conditions for the control and supervision of compliance with the law and to reduce the administrative burden. The effectiveness of the amendment is proposed at 1. 1. 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Marie Pěnčíková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the Minister has given us a rather exhaustive report on the amendment to the Act on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund. I won't repeat the basics again. I can only say for myself that I am glad that this amendment is being presented to us because the law really needs adjustments. There are a number of points that strengthen the protection of the soil fund, and I am actually happy for the Minister for that. Therefore, as rapporteur, I also recommend releasing this proposal for second reading. On the other hand, I have to admit that there are several things in it that I have a problem with, such as exceptions under Section 9 or deductions for withdrawal. We'll have to discuss that with the committees. Finally, as this is a proposal that affects more areas, and there will certainly be a number of comments on it, I will propose it for discussion not only to the Committee on the Environment, but also to the Committees on Agriculture and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u5	I will ask you again, because I note the proposals to the agricultural committee - and? [[The Committee on Regional Development.]] Thank you. At this point, I'm registering three factual points. Mr kolovratník, Mr Urban, followed by Mr Bendl. Mr. kolovratník says no. Mr. Urban? [[A reminder from the diaper that the debate is not open.]] You're right. I am opening a general debate. I have two factual points here. Mr Kučera, do you have a factual one as well, or are you duly logged in to the debate? Properly logged in, okay. So with the de facto Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u6	Thank you for the floor. I may have been ahead of myself, but given the content of the law, I think the standard should be discussed by the Economic Committee because it is an investment in industry and so on. So I'm in favour of protecting the soil fund. Certainly, the Economic Committee will not propose something that would mean taking over the soil fund, but this concerns industrial zones and possibly other investments in production, so please, when the Committee's commandments are voted on, so that the Economic Committee is also included in the committees that will discuss this standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I noted your proposal. I'll put it to a vote later. I will now ask Mr Bendl to make a point of fact. You wanted to have a proper discussion, okay, so I'm gonna erase the facts. The first priority is President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u8	Thank you for the floor. First, I want to say that our club will support the release for second reading and, at the same time, we have agreed with the chairman of the club ANO that we will not block and we will also support the reduction of negotiations for an extremely short period of 10 days. We had such a small condition that this should end in the Economic Committee, so I agree with Mr Urban. More like stimuli, not some kind of criticism. When we remember the rates rising, the initial impulse was not to build photovoltaic power plants on quality agricultural land, which I think is absolutely correct, and it takes time. The Chamber of Deputies took it across the board at the time rather than restricting it only to this segment, which is perfectly fine. Now we're putting it back, but in our opinion, it's not enough. What's in there is fine. We're about ten days after the end of the municipal elections. Individual cities and municipalities have their territorial plans, many have been running to implement something in the city, and thanks to the economic conditions, often exempt, programs cannot be realized because investors also need to get their investments back sometime, and if we give them economic barriers to the start, investment simply doesn't match. And they're not just industrial zones. So we would like to discuss technical or transport infrastructure in the committees, but also housing, or very often many say that we need to build kindergartens and so on, which can happen. So I think we should discuss this, and the debate can be rather short. I think that the law is valid long enough and we are aware of the negative consequences and we have them from experience. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to at least three things in the government's proposal, which we should still focus on in the committees and either specify them or launch them. First, it states that agricultural land of the first and second classes of protection can only be withdrawn where other public interest prevails over the public interest in the protection of the agricultural soil fund. It is quite logical, but here the question arises, who will determine which public interest prevails. Whether it's the body of protection or someone else. [[15.20 hours]] At the moment it will be the body of protection, I am afraid that this is simply not an impartial assessment that, from the logic of the matter, the public interest in the protection of the agricultural soil fund, when it is decided by the authority in charge, so logically - and I am not always saying wrong - will give priority to its interest. And where's the other public interest? Is that a zoning plan? The principles of territorial development or something? It is a matter that I think should be clarified in the debate and clarified. As it is written, in our opinion, it is insufficient, and it would in theory loosen up, but it could practically remain exactly the same. And I'm not criticizing the organs because they're supposed to protect the agricultural soil fund in their description of their work. But if someone else comes with another view, with another public interest, then it should probably be judged by someone else so that there is objectivity and that someone can actually judge those two public interests and say, in this case, this. And then let's consider the debate whether this decision is final or an appeal. It's not exactly an easy answer to that question, and I think it's a thing. That's why I say ten days is extremely ambitious, because there are quite a lot of problems, and if we don't make it, it just goes away. I think if three committees get it, like I'm assuming that three committees are going to discuss it, it could happen. Then I think that in Section 9, where it is stipulated what the request for consent contains, some points could be deleted, and this would need to be point (d) and (e) which could often be redundant, and we could reduce the bureaucracy. And then the Ministry itself proposes an increase in coefficients with the argument that we have inflation. But it's an argument like inflation, so everything has to be counted automatically into the inflation item. After all, the main reason or one of the main reasons we say is the price level. On the other hand, we want to sort of modify this as an inflationary item. We are more inclined not to modify it, and it is once again a matter for debate in all three committees. For us, for the Civic Democrats' club, I say we have the ambition to expand it and make it cheaper in other cases. And it's certainly not that we're not being blamed for building a large-capacity parking lot at some supergigantic market. Nothing like that. But municipalities and cities must have an instrument - or we should not prevent them from knowing better than the state, so they have a territorial plan for their communities, they know better than the state and central authorities what they want in that territory and what they don't want in that territory, and we should, if possible, not put economic barriers to the implementation of those plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u9	Thank you. Another duly signed up is Mr Kučera, Mr Bendl and Mr Vilímec after him. So I'll ask Mr. Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u10	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this amendment to the law is very serious and it is absolutely essential that it be properly discussed. In our country, where thousands of hectares of agricultural land disappear annually, the amendment to this law is undoubtedly important not only in terms of the price at which the land is bought out, but also because of technical changes following other laws. I must mention the relationship of the amendment to parametrification of the definition of public interest. Surely there is something different about the construction of a backbone motorway network or technical energy networks, for example, compared to the construction of other and other industrial zones on agricultural land, of course outside the so-called. Brownfields. The resulting form of the Act on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund will significantly affect not only the environment but also the interrelationship between the different functions of the territory, whether within the populated or otherwise economically exploited territory or natural territory. The municipalities have long sought to establish optimal conditions for the balanced operation of different types of land use and the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund is one of the important instruments for promoting the interests of municipalities. As far as I know, this also includes support from the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. We must realise that some proposed provisions of the law, such as the abolition of the exemption for family houses and similar buildings for buildings and facilities of civic amenities or facilities and medical and cultural facilities, can significantly affect the further development of cities and municipalities and also interfere with the ownership of private individuals. We must not forget that the amendment also proposes the transfer of competences from the second-type municipalities to the third-type municipalities, and this effectively precedes the reform of the public administration, which is being discussed again these days. I am pleased that there has been a proposal for this amendment to be discussed in the Economic Committee. I think that is absolutely correct, and I think that it should also be discussed in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u11	Thank you. I have here one factual comment by Mr Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to very briefly once again, following the previous speeches by my colleague Stanjura, to draw attention to the need for a more precise definition of the public interest assessment in these matters. I myself have experienced a number of negotiations concerning the agricultural soil fund in relation to the project of the National Biomedical Centre, which was to be established in Olomouc and should have followed up on this town recently realized a huge, gigantic investment from European money in the field of biomedicine. We have a specialized scientific institute in this matter. And I experienced precisely the indefinability of public interest assessments at the Ministry of the Environment, when we had the support of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, CzechInvest, various all kinds of institutions, then even in writing declared support by the President of the Republic, and at the same time in the assessment we came to the conclusion that there is no definition of how to define precisely with the body in charge, when the public interest prevails and when the interest in protecting the agricultural soil fund prevails. If this continues to be unspecified and not regulated, then whatever the views of the authorities of the municipalities, whether urban, regional, whatever the views of the executive bodies, such as the various ministries of the government, are essentially of no value in the process and any such intention cannot be realized. It is my personal experience, and I myself am ready for the Economic Committee to ensure that we really conceive of the consequences and find the mechanism there, because otherwise the intentions will never be realized.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Bendl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good day. We are discussing an amendment to the Act on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund - a material that has a relatively significant impact on the functioning of the economy in the Czech Republic, but agriculture in particular. I can't put a little bit of pressure on the fact that the Minister of Agriculture doesn't participate in this debate, which this material should be extremely related to. Unfortunately, I miss it not only in the negotiations on this point. It would probably be a good idea for you to have a little order in the coalition, and the Minister attended the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't even see him here at the interceptions, and now I don't see him at the points that directly affect agriculture. I think we all agree that the agricultural soil fund is supposed to be protected, on the one hand. On the other hand, I would like to remind those who are not so oriented about this issue that the Czech Republic has committed itself to joining the EU, that it will reduce, for example, the level of pupils in the Czech Republic, and if the owner of the arable land today undertakes to create only pastures in the field, the Czech Republic will contribute financially to it and pay him for not plowing again and we will not have so much arable land in the Czech Republic. That is what it takes for you to know those of you who are not orienting on this issue. [[15.30 hours]] At the same time, I think, is valid and must be admitted that the boom of interest of investors, interest of building and the like, which was here after the revolution in those years 1992, 1995, 1997, 1998 and so on, it is long gone. The pressure to create new industrial zones and such is far from that. On the contrary, we are looking for a way to attract new investors here at all, to strengthen the number of jobs in the Czech Republic. From this point of view, it is the law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund that is sensitive. We need to look at it as a law that protects the value of the agricultural soil fund on the one hand, on the other hand affects the development of cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic and can thereby hinder a number of positive things. Today, there has already been mention of a document which, without a doubt, the zoning plan is a key document to which it is expressed, as far as it concerns cities and municipalities, individual municipalities, authorities of the Ministry of the Environment, or I will say all the authorities concerned, the region and the like. This means a document is created which characterizes the direction in which the development of a given territory is to go, where roads, motorways, where development areas, where protected areas and the like are to go. And this, this law, which basically is still trying to charge, or it describes the levying of exclusion from the agricultural soil fund, protects some areas even more and allows the administration to express itself. I would very much support this position, so that for the most important document in this regard the territorial plan, not the interest of the public represented by one or two officials at the ministry or regional authority as well as the municipal authority. I think the public's interest here is primarily represented by the council. But I understand that there are civil servants and public authorities who must and should supervise the symbiosis with what the public wishes for, how the territory is to be maintained in the future. There are, or I know specific examples where, for example, to build a sidewalk from one village to another, which is very close to each other, it was necessary to remove a lane from the agricultural soil fund along the road on which an ordinary pavement could be built. The removal from the agricultural soil fund cost more than the construction of this pavement. Sounds absurd to me. As absurd as it is, when the state thinks it will build a transport infrastructure, whether rail or road, it will discuss this in the territorial plans, allocate its funds to it, but the state will raise its transport infrastructure by the funds necessary to use it to remove it. We'll just pay a few times with our own money and use the money and the transport infrastructure, use other money. Therefore, we cannot build and complicate ourselves and make transport infrastructure more expensive. That's what this law is all about. I am in favour of the law getting to second reading as quickly as possible, and I will support this bill. But I also want to say that in my decision-making, I will look for a regulation that will not hinder the development of cities and municipalities, so that, with a minimum financial contribution, municipalities can further develop in accordance, in particular, with their territorial plan, which includes both state institutions and individual councils. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I record three registered for the debate - the first is Mr Vilímec, Mr Faltýnek and Mr Kováčik as the third Member. I will ask Mr Vilímec to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to perhaps a partial aspect for some, but for many or for some quite essential, which the Minister did not actually mention in his introductory speech, I think even the rapporteur. Mr Tomáš Kučera pointed out that, in particular, in relation to the various types of municipalities, the competences of the existing authorities for the protection of the agricultural soil fund, which this House's press also brings. You know, since the demise of the district authorities and the emergence of municipalities with extended scope on 1 January 2003, the position of individual types of municipalities has been constantly discussed, especially those municipalities that remain in the category of so-called. the municipality with the authority of the municipal authority. I remember very well the discussion at the time when municipalities were formed with extended scope. Not even a hint of the then government, it was the government of social democracy, or the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior did not mention that this would also lead to a long-term attempt to effectively eliminate the performance of state administration in designated municipalities. At that time, there were major debates on the status and number of municipalities with extended scope. I don't want to go back to that. After ten years, it seems to me, or I believe, that the desired effect did not reach much, that the approximation of the performance of the state administration did not often take place and rather delayed the performance of the state administration, whether in municipalities with extended scope from the original municipal authorities with the authority or the regional authorities. During those ten or today eleven years, with varying intensity in each election period, the actually competence of the state administration from the municipalities with the designated authority began to shift, in particular towards the municipalities with extended scope. It was always such a salami method, because really no concepts or reforms, other reforms of public administration were not adopted. I don't think we can do that. I'm a long-time local city with an authority, which is why I'm performing here. When I say long-term, I remember in this position for 24 years. And I really don't understand why there are always attempts to liquidate the performance of the public administration in these municipalities from the parties or from some ministries. These are municipalities that have experienced administrative equipment, expertise, and there is usually no reason why many powers of administration should move elsewhere. In fact, at the very end of the last parliamentary term, the Ministry of the Environment made such a failed attempt to enforce in the Senate amendment to the Law on Agricultural Soil Fund in the Chamber of Deputies the abolition of the authorities of the protection of the agricultural soil fund in designated municipalities. In principle, it has done what is now being proposed in this House to the press with a slight change. At that time, the Senate adopted an amendment, which included the Senators themselves as well as the Union of Cities and Municipalities. The amendment quite logically set the competences of the individual authorities of the agricultural soil fund according to the natural role of the individual levels of government, whether they are municipalities with widespread competence, with a delegated authority, regional authorities, or Czech environmental inspection. Unfortunately, there has been a dissolution of the House, or, thank God, I don't want to evaluate it now, and the law has fallen under the table because there was no one left to decide on the Senate amendment. In the new parliamentary term, true, with other actors, this proposal is back on the table. When I read it in detail yesterday, it again refers to an ancient resolution, a very bearded government resolution sometime from 2006. The Government's resolution certainly did not aim to liquidate the state administration in municipalities with a delegated authority. When I quote from the explanatory memorandum, the explanatory memorandum of this House's press to the account of the abolition of the authorities of the protection of the agricultural soil fund in the municipalities with the designated authority states that, to a large extent, the scope of the municipal authorities of the municipalities has already been concentrated in municipalities with extended scope, as permitted by the municipal law. I really don't understand, especially the amendment. In another place, and I think it is also interesting, when assessing the benefits and costs, it is accepted that the transfer of competences from the delegated authorities can increase transport costs and increase time requirements for both municipalities with extended scope and for applicants. [[15.40 hours]] There is talk of saving wage costs for municipalities with a delegated authority, rather hypothetical, at the same time - and I would like to underline this - but the amendment on the change in competences and the introduction of new competences will bring about the need to increase funds from public budgets. Bottom line, the overall savings of the changes in those competences are lower than the total costs. In the justification, you will find only a brief summary of the comments of some departments, including the Czech Environmental Inspection, which also requires an increase of 11 functional posts in connection with the changes in competences. Nor did it mention that this proposal is fundamentally opposed in some aspects of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. That's very remarkable. I do not want to evaluate this amendment in other areas of proposed changes, that is what my colleagues have done. I believe that - even if it is for ten days, a very short period of time - common sense will prevail and the Ministry of the Environment will refrain from running out of time in further deliberation of the law and from trying to liquidate the body of protection of the agricultural soil fund in municipalities with the municipal authority. It doesn't bring anything, it only complicates people's lives. You know, we talk a lot about the need to support the countryside. In fact, however, we are doing everything we can to make life as difficult as possible for people in the countryside. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Faltýnek for his contribution to the debate. After that is Mr. Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u18	Good afternoon, colleagues, Mr President. I am only very brief because I personally participated in the debate on the emergence of this amendment. It led me to experience where I live, which I will briefly describe to you. However, when listening to today's discussion, I thank you for the fact that most of you, of us, agree that this standard needs to be corrected. It is not often in this House, because the last amendment actually poured out a child with a bathtub and suspended a bit of investment in the Czech Republic, whether foreign or Czech. I come from Central Moravia, Hané, Prostějov, and there is Mubea, which employs and operates in Prostějov for ten years, employs thousands of people and want to build another extension of the factory for about 600 people, with the town of Prostějov, where I am a representative for almost thirty years, sold them land in the industrial zone for about 500 CZK per square metre and the price for exemption under the current applicable regulation is CZK 1,500, i.e. de facto triple the purchase price, knowing that the company works there, employs people, participates in education etc. There's a similar case in Olšany near Prostějov. It is a small village between Prostějov and Olomouc, where the German company Mürdter Dvořák wants to double the capacity of production of plastic parts into cars on board and according to the current regulation - and here I note that of course it is and it was very difficult to find a compromise between resorts, between the Ministry of Agriculture, MMR, MŽP and others who participated in it, because specifically in Olšany it is a number one bonita. However, it is in the municipal planning approved ten years ago. Today, of course, the land is managed, but the land is owned by the German company, which wants to build another production hall, move production from Germany, double the capacity and employ another 300 people. So these were the reasons why I became intensely interested in this, and it's a good thing that there's a compromise that balances on one side the protection of the agricultural soil fund, because all of you, or most of us, know that one centimeter of the eagle has been formed for a hundred years, so there's definitely a need to protect the farmland. On the other hand, it is necessary to support this in areas where construction is prepared, where interested parties are interested in the construction of new fabric and related warehouse space. So I strongly support this compromise found from the chair of the agricultural committee, and as has already been said here, I have asked colleagues from other coalition and opposition clubs in the morning to reduce to the minimum necessary the discussion of this law in committees so that the legal standard can apply as soon as possible, because there are strange investors in our country who want to build, want to employ people and who still want to create new jobs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with priority rights, Minister Brabec and then Mr Kováčik are signed up. [[Mr. Kováčik argues that he has the same priority right.]] Minister, when you report, you have the same priority right, you're right, yes. Come on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u20	I promise I won't talk long, because I never talk long. I thank the Minister that he preferred me as an elder in the same priority right. Of course, I understand very well what President Faltýnek and many others are saying here. The effort to enable the construction of new fabric, bringing jobs, bringing economic development, is undoubtedly indisputable. But let me maybe take a look at some steps further, look at the matter a little philosophically, or bring in a few basic questions that we also have to deal with. It's been said here how long an inch of an ornament has been formed. It follows that the land is irreplaceable. The second fact to be borne in mind is that the Czech Republic is one of the European countries with the lowest agricultural land per capita, and that therefore we cannot afford to gamble too much with agricultural land, in the name of our descendants, our grandchildren, grandchildren, when it may happen sometime in the future, that every inch of square farmland will be needed either from food or energy, or others, for example environmental reasons, and we will not have that land. Third, fourth, fifth and other premises - you know, I wouldn't want to repeat the situation, which is trivial, when on the best land, the most fertile bonitas, the best soil in the country, we have grown rapidly after the nineties, extensive logistics centers, also with the justification that development, business, etc., and so on and so on. And the land is lost forever. Even after the big boxes are removed, reclamation is not entirely possible in the original previous state. These are things that we also need to keep in mind. The soil is a matter of national wealth, even if it is to be owned by individual physical or other persons, but it is in a broader sense so important, so serious, and irreplaceable national wealth, that if anyone wonders that the price of the exemption was greater than the price of the construction, it just expresses how irreplaceable the land is. And I am not rejecting development at all, I am not rejecting the chance to allow it, I am not rejecting the discussion that we should build new factories, warehouses, new jobs in justified cases. On the contrary. I support this, but I urge that we really bear in mind not only these interests tomorrow, but also tomorrow's and the future interests of citizens who may not yet be born and which could lead to some problems in our today's over-gambling with land as national wealth. Of course, I know that these things are already approved in those industrial zones, of course I feel that this needs to be discussed well, and I do not rule out support, but I would also like the agricultural committee to deal with this matter when it comes to agricultural land. And in a situation like this, I don't find it entirely happy to shorten the deadline to ten days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u21	Thank you, and I appreciate that you gentlemen have treated each other like gentlemen with priority rights. The Minister has decided to keep his speech until the final word, so Mr Urban is now in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe it's worth recalling why we're here currently repairing the law, or we're supposed to have the ambition to correct the law. This was not due to actual protection of the soil fund. It originated for reasons, I think it was Minister Kocourek, that state, virtually. The government was looking for resources to finance increased support for renewable resources, and this increased fee was one of the three resources to contribute precisely to the payment of the increased renewables fees from the state budget. Then there was the solar tax and more. And, of course, this proposal did not bring anything, because it essentially stopped buying and exempting agricultural land, stopped investment and did not become a source of any other revenue from the state budget. So life has shown that this was not a good intention at the time, and I think that we really need to go back and look for a reasonable compromise. The proposal put forward by the Minister is not at any other agricultural land and the taking over of some hundred-year arable land, but rather tends and goes into those industrial zones which have already been approved under the territorial plans, within the framework of various government decisions to build industrial zones in the public interest so that they can be invested by Czech and foreign business entities and create jobs. From this point of view, I think that's a good compromise. It is necessary to look at this really on the pharmacies' scales, if this compromise will allow the start of investments, which in some places are essentially announced, and thus the primary interest in protecting the agricultural soil fund from the perspective of the future, is maintained even when adopting this standard. I think there is also a need to encourage a reduction in the negotiations, because the sooner this law applies, it will, of course, enable some important investments to be made. This is mainly about cities and municipalities, or regions, and I therefore support this in this regard, in order for the committees to discuss this quite quickly. Maybe we'll discuss some minor corrections to the law. That's what I think will probably be necessary, too. However, as the basis of this standard, I consider it a good one, and for this reason we will remove something that has hindered investment in the Czech Republic, and that is certainly what we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u23	Thank you. Two factual points. Mr Laudát and Mr Stanjura have the first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what motivation Kocourek had, but the increase in the prices for exemption from the agricultural soil fund came at the moment when absolutely catastrophic and alarming figures appeared on the table about the decline of agricultural land in the Czech Republic. I don't think this is the way. We're not going to block the shortening of the deadline, but you're doing a huge notch again at the expense of future generations. What is happening with agricultural and other non-construction land in the Czech Republic is one of the worst disasters that is taking place in the European Union. We also have a worse situation with regard to erosion. We're worse off than the Švýcar. I think that if the government purposefully wants to support one or the other project in the public interest, it has a bunch of other financial instruments to de facto give back the money to the investor, but this is how flat-rate what you're planning to do here, and it's going to be repeated. You're saying today it's just for some already industrial zones. So I'm asking what those responsible were doing. After all, he'll be removed from the soil fund first, and then he'll come by. It's just another notch against where we parasite at the expense of our successors. I'm sorry, but it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u25	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Stanjura and after him is entered into discussion by Mr Faltýnek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u26	The minister kept the final word, so I would ask him if he could mention one more thing or how he proposes to deal with it. Some of the controls are running today, and they're not finished. If the law comes through eventually, and I assume it does, it would be good to figure it out. And I think that to create a level playing field, that these proceedings should be run again under better conditions for investors. It's not exactly in the transitional provisions yet. It is another initiative for committees, because I think that at that point those who were ready to pay the exemption in these economically disadvantageous conditions were at a disadvantage. That is what I think needs to be settled before we reach the final vote. So I will then ask the Minister for a response to this complaint in the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u27	Another point of fact is made by Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u28	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, I only have a conceptual request. Here several times it was said that if there was an investment, the construction of a factory that would employ people, that it was a public interest. Please be very careful with the concept of public interest. In the public interest, it is also possible to expropriate in every civilized society, but private investment interest, although godly, will benefit employment, cannot be defined as public interest. Public interest is the construction of line construction, but in no way a private investment plan, however much we want it. But public interest is a term that is largely sacred, and we must not throw the concept of public interest at the construction of every factory. That's what I want to ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u29	Thank you. Mr Faltýnek is now duly registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'm basically just trying to make a technical note of your response to František Laudát's performance. It is true that agricultural land not only in the Czech Republic, but everywhere in the world where municipalities develop, there is housing construction, there is industrial construction, so it is simply declining. For your information, the annual decline is about 4 to 5,000 hectares a year, which in ten years, as he wrote, I feel like it was Petr Havel, an agrarian analyst, could be up to the area of one small district. That's right. But it needs to be realized that not all of this area is for industrial construction. There is a qualified estimate, if I am not mistaken, the Ministry of Agriculture for Industrial Factories and related approval somewhere within a thousand hectares, the rest is - 700 says Minister Brabec - the rest is mining minerals, housing construction etc. And I would just repeat the nature of the novel. The point is that before the amendment of the previous government, which responded to photovoltaics and wanted to prevent them, not only to increase income that did not occur, but to prevent the further development of photovoltaics on arable land, which had logic, so the prices for exemption by multiplying the coefficient of nature protection have increased many times from prices that were low. And today we're going back to some compromise, not to the beginning of those low prices, but to some midpoint, and at the same time there's a compromise, so that it's not being fertilely abused. I don't suppose it could be fertilely abused, because investors who want to build those factories here, unfortunately, aren't really in our country. But there are still some, as President Stanjura has said, and it would be unfair for those who are going to have different conditions than those who will be from 1 January, if we were able to approve it this way, 2015. So much for just adding and responding through you, Mr President, to the performance of František Laudát. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u31	Thank you. I have two factual points here. Mr Urban and Mr Bendl have the first. So, Mr Urban, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u32	Thank you. I'll just follow up on the previous speakers. In essence, this standard is intended to allow existing developed industrial zones to be invested where investors are interested and jobs are created. I don't think anybody here wants to propose any more trades, the removal of the soil fund, even I think it should not be some policy of the governments of the Czech Republic to build other industrial zones on arable land. However, I think that those that are currently at different stages of construction and also because of this law have stopped, it is worth making investments where investors were interested, so that they can make investments in the locality, which has already been approved in the territorial plan as an industrial zone. As far as the public interest is concerned, just a technical comment on President Kalousek's speech. There are strategic industrial zones, which are decided by previous governments, and they have a character of public interest. Then there are many others, which are not strategic industrial zones, but investments are also taking place there, where of course there is no public interest anymore. I could imagine, in the future, that we will use much more for the investor opportunities of brownfields, but it is necessary to tell ourselves why they are not being used. They are not used because, firstly, they have different owners and secondly, mainly because no one will contribute to cleaning themselves from environmental burdens, etc. If the state were to look for a way to deal with the preparation of brownfields for future investment, it would do a very good job. Then it is possible to use these brownfields for further investment than the industrial zones that exist now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u33	Thank you. Now with Mr Bendl in fact, then Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief, just for Mr Urban's account. You're in government, you just have to design it and bring something concrete here so that we can see that something is really going to happen in this area. I wanted to say the important thing. These are two things: constructions in the public interest, which are qualified in territorial plans, and private investment. If it is private investment, investment in private industrial zones, then it is logical that the state wants and must protect its agricultural soil fund and it is good that the fee is there. However, if these are constructions in the public interest - motorways, railways, but they are also pavements, in simple terms, i.e. buildings that are here for citizens in the public interest, then it is unnecessary for the State to pay out of its own resources the cost of publicly beneficial construction plus the exemption from the agricultural soil fund, because this makes it more expensive for itself to build up in the public interest, often doubles, and that is in the bank account of Pavel Kováčik through the President, and I consider that unnecessary. I wouldn't just argue that, because the state is useless and the municipalities and the regions are overpriced or we're costing them construction in the public interest, and then we're surprised that we don't have money to invest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have further written down with factual remarks. The first is Mr Benešík, followed by Mr Laudát and then by President Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u36	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, I'm just talking about brownfields. In the Zlín Region we had a Brownfield Support Program at the time, I think it was quite successful that there was much more demand for it than there was a financial offer to support the revitalization of brownfields, so the programs were here, maybe still somewhere, but we also met with problems because often investors do not want brownfields for various reasons. Of course, reconstruction is often more expensive and complicated than building something on a green meadow and also mostly brownfields are close, or directly in construction, further from roads etc., so there were some objective problems. As far as this bill is concerned, of course, I am not pleased that it concerns agricultural land, but we need to be clear, as it has also been said here, that it concerns, in particular, land which is already being run as an industrial zone today. For example, there is a huge industrial zone in the Zlín Region, over 300 hectares, waiting for this. I'm not going to judge whether it's a good thing it's there or not, but the taxpayer's area cost roughly a billion CZK 600 million. One reason, among other reasons, is also the expensive set-aside of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u37	Thank you. Now, Mr Laudát, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u38	Thank you. I'll respond to my colleague Urbano. Tomato music. But who was yelling that you just don't want to, one way or another, quickly implement a tender to clean up environmental burdens? Well, it was done at the Ministry of the Environment because they wanted to hand out contracts gradually, with the result in several cases questionable. And if you're wondering, back in the day, when I was looking at the data, when it was a huge media policy, only in the Sobotka Finance Minister's era, there were years where I felt like there wasn't even a crown. We've aroused expectations. If someone were to judge, I am not sure of the result at all, because the state has promised to clean up environmental burdens, and of course it logically discourages potential investors. I think that a number of territories are flattened anyway and that they would probably be to negotiate an industrial zone and place investments there, but that would have been the state having to move on and keep its promises from the early 1990s. So you guys score your own goal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u39	Thank you. I will now ask President Stanjura for a factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u40	I would like to return our debate to creating a level playing field as far as possible. We're talking about there's some industrial zones in the public interest and then there's others. I don't think so. If the municipality has an area for industry in the zoning plan, I think it declares its public interest in having it there. Not that the government will meet here, the regional council will meet here, it is voted that this territory is of strategic importance. That means we should approach it this way. This means that the self-government knows where the area is for industry, and by approving such a territorial plan, it shows its public interest. Not by order of the county or the government or the Chamber of Deputies or anyone else. I hope that there will always be a private investor who will eventually invest in an industrial zone or in an industrial area according to the zoning plan. I'm a little worried about the debate that we're slipping to the fact that somebody, the government, the House, the county council, they're gonna prefer some of the industrial areas, they're gonna call it the right one, we're gonna help out there, and we're not gonna help out in the rest of them. I'd like it to be the same everywhere. Let it follow the zoning plan, then it's logical. They are still entering this throughout Europe, unfortunately, we are not immune to this, investment incentives. This, of course, is distorting the market. Someone has the advantage, they get a better price. I can imagine that, in the context of investment offers, someone will pay for the exemption from public resources, whether state, regional or municipal, and again we are not creating a level playing field. Let us also think about our domestic investors, small companies that want to expand their business. They will never be in strategic zones, and we should create, as far as possible, the same condition as the great foreign ones, so that we don't forget them. That's all I really wanted to say. Equal conditions for all, not according to government, county or community resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u41	Thank you. Furthermore, I do not record anyone registered for the debate or with a factual remark. Looks like it is. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask the applicant or rapporteur for the final words. The Minister will take his word for it. So, your space, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to thank you for a great many very constructive pragmatic topics, and believe that I, of course, had these dilemmas as a translator. Because both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Industry and others, CzechInvest and others, of course, have been looking for a possible compromise. I can't, by definition, be the second Minister of Industry, and I don't want to be. It is clear that, on the other hand, we do not want to bind development where possible and where this is not contrary to the protection of the agricultural soil fund. Let me just take a few numbers and then just react to some of the notes. Because, of course, to respond to everything, we would have been here a long time. As has already been said here, the Czech Republic has 3.5 miles. hectares of agricultural land. Of this - and you'll be surprised - one million hectares are somehow influenced by the environmental weights of influence. This means whether they are protected areas, special protected areas, or protected areas related to natural accumulation of groundwater or surface waters. That's the biggest part. In the surrounding countries, where, of course, we studied the models, as is the case in Austria, Germany, Poland, Hungary, and in countries with longer democracies than ours, there is a decision on industrial zones at all, for example, or where those halls will be built, really already tied to territorial plans. In other words, they try to put them where they are not the highest quality soil. The truth is, however, that often in those cities it is river valleys and there are the highest quality agricultural land, and it simply cannot be avoided many times. But here in history it just happened that territorial plans many times those areas for development, i.e. both for production, storage, etc., that includes our favorite hypermarkets, where most of the nation goes on weekends as a new system of our culture, so it just builds on the first of the soils. And speaking of numbers, actually, before the first decision. 1. 2011 when exemption fees increased significantly, it was excluded from the soil fund annually from around 20 to 25 thousand. hectares of agricultural land. It was mainly related to photovoltaic. Now it's somewhere around 5,000 acres, and as my colleague Faltýnek said, it's a relatively marginal part that goes into industry. There is somewhere around 500 to 700 hectares and the rest is mainly mining minerals, building housing and also for example forestation. Because, of course, that is where agricultural land is harvested and, for example, forested. Or it becomes a permanent grassland, but above all, it is forestation. That means what we're talking about is about hundreds of hectares a year. But I agree that every hectare of agricultural land is a waste in the case of the highest-quality soils at a time when we can place these intentions somewhere else. And that should be the point. Public interest, I'll just say a few more numbers so you can imagine how it actually developed, because the economic stimulus is huge there. By 2011, by the end of 2010, the levy, the exemption fee in the first quality of the land without environmental factors was CZK 9.70 per square metre. With environmental factors, it was CZK 194 per square metre. From 2011 to now, it is 155 CZK per square metre without a factor, which means the one where it is not protected in any way, that is, about 2.5 mil. acres, a million hectares, I say, has some kind of nature to protect environmental defects. And with environmental factors, it could have been up to CZK 3,100 per square metre. In other words, 31 miles. CZK per hectare excluded from the agricultural soil fund where the environmental balance of influence has actually occurred. According to the amendment, it should be without environmental factors of CZK 155 per square metre and with a maximum coincidence of factors of CZK 1, 550. I just remind you that in Poland, the maximum exemption fee is somewhere around about EUR 20, which means somewhere around CZK 550, which is on the best soil. There is a similar amount even in Austria, respectively. In Poland, it is even less. In Hungary, it is even less. And in Austria, I think it's just about 30 euros. That means, even after the amendment, our agricultural land is still well protected by the economic tool, especially in the zones of the ones. As far as the public interest is concerned, and the public interest, as Mr Stanjura, the President of the Club, has spoken, is indeed decided by the authorities of the protection of the agricultural soil fund, but this decision is judicially reviewable. So if anyone disagrees with this, and as Mr Kalousek also said, the public interest, there are a number of judicates today, where it is clearly stated, if public interest is outweighed by the defence of the Czech Republic or the public interest in transport infrastructure. And certainly if a public interest was claimed to build another business center, which is already ten in that city, and someone sued it, I think it would be a success in the court. Because it's reviewable. The question asked by President Stanjura, the transitional provisions, that is, where it is going, so there is indeed a purely legal matter, because the law provides for a fee at the time when the territorial decision takes place, i.e. when the fee for the levy is actually fixed, i.e. for the exemption from the agricultural soil fund, so the moment when the territorial decision takes place is determined. This means, indeed, that if we wanted to apply a new law to these already underway proceedings, according to the existing law, and it would certainly still be a legal debate in the committees, it would probably be necessary to start them again. Because if the existing ones were, it's complicated. If that fee has already been set by the zoning decision, it's hard to come back in retroactively. I want everyone - I don't want to respond to everything, I don't want to delay the long final word. I would really like to assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that this law, as it is, we have taken over a certain master, a certain body that was already underway in two years of interministerial proceedings. The original plan was already prepared by the Nečasův Government, subsequently it was slightly amended by the Rusnokův government and only did not reach the House afterwards. We were redesigning some of these things, so there are several years of discussion among all ministers, where, of course, there have been logical situations where there have been major conflicts between the Minister of Transport or the Minister of Industry or the Minister of the Environment or the Minister of Agriculture. I dare say that we have come - I do not say perfect, certainly not, but that we have come to a certain compromise. But, of course, I am ready and we are ready to continue discussing it with you on the committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u43	Thank you, Minister. I wonder if the plaintiff will take the final floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u44	Thanks again for the word. First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers who have spoken. I'm really happy for the debate because she's shown two basic things. The first, perhaps positive for us, is that, across the political spectrum, we seem to agree that this law, this amendment, is important, is essential and needs to be sent to a second reading. The other thing isn't so happy anymore, and that's what all my previous speakers have mentioned. Mr Stanjura, Section 4, definition of public interest, Section 9 coefficient. Mr Vilímec, change of responsibilities. Mr. Faltýnek, problems of practice. We can see that there are problems. And since this proposal is submitted to four committees, I certainly do not think that we can discuss this properly over the shorter deadline. There are a lot of problems there, we have a lot of work to do about it, and I wouldn't want it to turn out the way they say it did - the effort was and it turned out the way it did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u45	Thank you, rapporteur. Since there has not been a proposal or a return to the applicant for work or for rejection, we will deal with the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment. Mrs Pěnčíková also proposes to order the agricultural committee and the Committee on Regional Development, and the Member also proposes to order the Economic Committee to be consulted. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for a supplement. It's not like that. The listing is final. We shall now proceed to the vote. We will be the first to vote on who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 15, the Members present is 184, in favour of proposal 153. [[against no one]] The motion was accepted. I am now opening the vote and asking who is for the commandment to the agricultural committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is the vote number 16, the Members present is 184, for this proposal there were 154 Members. [[against no one]] The motion was accepted. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment to the Committee on Regional Development, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is the vote number 17 of Members present is 184, in favour of the proposal 147. [[versus 1]] This proposal has also been adopted. Initiating the vote and asking who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who's in? Who's against it? It is the vote number 18, the Members present is 184, in favour of proposal 153. [[against no one]] The motion was accepted. I still have a proposal to shorten the deadline to 10 days to discuss. I am voting and asking who is in favour of shortening the deadline in the committees to 10 days. [[The noise in the hall.]] Who's against it? It is the vote number 19, of the Members present 184 for 86. [[versus 46]] The motion was not accepted. [[Member Sklenák is running for a piece of junk and he's begging for a moment so he and his colleagues can check it out quickly.]] I'm gonna ask you for a moment. [[Several Members stand in front of the speaker's desk and find out who and what they can comment on at this stage on the microphone.]] This is Mr. Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, I apologize very much, but my will to vote was yes, I have a cross on high, so I question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-001-060.u47	Okay, thank you. Now, I have a request here to unsubscribe, so I'm going to do it by checking you all out. I'm gonna ask you to log back into the system. Since it has been raised... that the vote has been called into question, we will repeat this vote. I'll put it again to the vote that the deadline will be reduced to 10 days to discuss... [[Votes from the right that first there must be a vote on the objection.]] First of all, I will vote on the objection that the vote has been called into question. I put it to the vote who is in favour of accepting this objection. Who's against it? It is the vote number 20, the Members present is 159, for 153. [[versus 1]] In that case, I shall re-vote to shorten the time limit for discussion to 10 days. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of shortening the time limit for the committees to 10 days. Who's against it? It is voting number 21, the Members present is 163, in favour of proposal 80. [[versus 51]] The motion was denied. [[Big round of applause from the right.]] I'm saying that... [[The President has been silent for a sudden big noise in the hall.]] Anyone reporting for the debate? [[Questions: Is there a debate?]] There is no debate. There is no debate. [[Question: "Can you still suggest?"]] There's nothing to suggest. Everything was closed. I shall state on which committees the proposal has been submitted to. We agreed that the proposal for discussion was given to the Committee on the Environment, the Agricultural Committee, the Committee on Regional Development and the Economic Committee and the time limit for the discussion was not shortened. [[There's noise in the room.]] I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening another point.
