ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-005-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (the Electronic Communications Act), as amended, and Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services and on the amendment of certain laws (the Postal Services Act), as amended /German press 135/ - first reading The Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-005-008.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the bill amending the law on electronic communications and the Postal Services Act. This bill aims, in particular, to bring those laws into line with the new rules of control. Furthermore, the draft law addresses certain missing administrative offences resulting from non-compliance with the obligations laid down in the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on roaming on public mobile communications networks in the Union, the relevant sanctions and penalties for infringements of certain obligations under the Electronic Communications Act and the Postal Services Act. The draft law was approved by the Government at its meeting on 26 February this year. I would like to stress that this is a simple standard. I therefore hope for her smooth approval. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-005-008.u3	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jiří Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-005-008.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, my fellow Members of the Government, colleagues, first of all, I consider it appropriate to emphasise once again that the current Government Bill amending Act No.127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications, and Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on Postal Services, Parliamentary Press 135/0, is primarily a transposition regulation of necessity and, to some extent, a mandatory requirement of the European Union to incorporate technical adaptations, if you want a legislative technical character into the legal framework of the Czech Republic. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to bring both of these standards into line with you, at least in a very rough manner. Act on Electronic Communications No. 127/2005 Sb. of 22 February 2005 became effective on 1 May this year. [[15.10 hours]] This legal standard falls within the scope of private law and deals with the terms of business and performance of state administration, including market regulation in the field of electronic communications. The first part, i.e. § 1 to 151, defines electronic communication, including the principles of regulating the rights and obligations of entrepreneurs, data protection and administrative offences. The second part and up to section 26 define amendments to the Water and Sewer Act, the Act amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Administrative Code of Procedure, the Act amending the Act on Technical Requirements for Products, the Act amending the laws relating to the adoption of the Service Act, the Act implementing certain measures in the system of central government bodies and amending certain laws, the Act amending the Telecommunications Act, the Law on the Prison Service and the Justice Guard of the Czech Republic, the Act amending certain laws relating to the area of population registration, the Act amending the Trade Act, the Act on Trade Entrepreneurship, the Crisis Act, the Act on the Operation of Radio and Television Broadcasting, the Act on Administrative Charges, the Service Act, the Administrative Code and the Act on the Protection of Competition. Postal Services Act No. 29/2000 Sb. of 18 January 2000 became effective on 1 June this year. This law establishes the relevant European Union rules and regulates the conditions for the postal services business, the conditions for the provision and operation of postal services, the rights and obligations arising from such activities, as well as the specific rights and specific obligations of those postal service operators who have an obligation to provide and provide basic services and the performance of state administration and regulation in the field of postal services. Colleagues and colleagues, today's government bill, House press 135/0, was conceived, as already stated by the petitioner, in particular because of the elimination of partial duplication of laws on electronic communications and postal services and partial non-compliance with the new legislation on procedures for carrying out checks. In addition, the Electronic Communications Act also lacks sanctions under the conditions of a general measure issued pursuant to Section 9 (2) of the Act on Electronic Communications. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 of the Postal Services Act. By not adopting the proposal, the two laws in question would continue to be partially duplicated and partly contrary to the new rules of control. The Czech Republic would also face the threat of sanctions on the part of the European Union by missing sanctions, meaning the lack of possibilities of coercion to fulfil certain obligations. Even for considerable reasons that, in the context of the adoption of the Government's bill, negative impacts on the social sphere, negative impacts on the environment, the business environment, gender equality, and that this will not have any impact on the state and other public budgets, I recommend that this be passed on to second reading today, at the same time ordered for discussion by the House's Economic Committee, under a proper regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-005-008.u5	Thank you, honourable Member. I am opening a general debate in which I do not have one registered debate, so I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of submitting a motion for discussion to the Economic Committee? Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. In the vote order number 17 for 121, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee. We are now approaching the point.
