ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u1	178. Oral inhalation We'll now move on to oral interpellation for the absent Prime Minister. First interview is by Mrs Věra Kovářová. He will intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka in the matter of forest kindergartens. Please, madam. The Member withdraws her interpelation. So let's move on to the second interpellation. Mrs Jana Fischerová will interpel Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the situation at the Ministry of Regional Development. In the absence of the Prime Minister, the Member also withdraws her intervention. Mr Ondráček Zdeněk will also interpel Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the increase in the salaries of security forces. Unfortunately, I do not see Mr Ondráček at this time. It does not appear to be coming, so I am canceling his intervention, the Member is not present. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will also intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka in case R52. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is not present either, so he is failing his interpellation. That's what we have effective today. Mr Petr Bendl, with his fifth interview, should perhaps intersect Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, the absent Prime Minister, on the European Union's sanctions against Russia. Also absent Member of Parliament, so he's failing his interpellation. Mr Igor Nykl will also intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the presumption of guilt with ČSSD members. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u2	Afternoon, colleagues, colleagues. Dear absent Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one such interesting thing, which I am now meeting in our district or in our city. I live in Frýdek-Místek, and I noticed that there was such an interesting rare situation in your situation in the municipal elections in the city. You have stated in the statutes of your party that politicians - members of the ČSSD, who are essentially accused of committing a deliberate crime, will honor the presumption of guilt and will have suspended membership, will not be active at that time. Now that I've looked at your candidate for the local elections in Frýdek-Místek, from the first five people on the candidate list in our big, sixty thousand city, the five people, except for the one doctor who's there, the four others either have some criminal prosecution, even one already has a condition, and yet they're on this candidate. The senator candidate wasn't issued by the Senate, but she also had a criminal prosecution at this point. So it is such a strange situation and I, in theory, could, as a member of the ANO movement, rejoice that such a special candidate has been created, and yet I think it is actually damaging to the perception of the public policy itself, because perhaps the problem with the presumption of guilt means something to ordinary citizens. Moreover, it turned out that when the head of your district committee of the ČSSD refused to sign this candidate precisely with the fact that there was a violation of certain principles, he was going to hug and the candidate was signing somewhere in Ostrava, or violation of the statutes. I wonder if you think this situation is normal, if it's all right, or if it shouldn't really be like this, and if there's anything you can do about it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u3	I thank Mr Nykl. To his question, the interview will be answered in writing. Mr Petr Fiala, who will intersect the absent Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the development of the South Moravian Region, came forward with the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must say that I wanted to ask the Prime Minister a number of questions as well as my fellow Members from my parliamentary club. These are not the questions that we ask him, but those are the questions that citizens ask. I think the Prime Minister should be here and he should take advantage of the opportunity and really answer them. Since the Prime Minister is not here, I do not consider it possible to interpel on our part, so I announce that the Citizen's Democratic Party MP is pulling all his interpelations on the Prime Minister he has presented today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u5	I thank the President of the Civil Democratic Party. Thus, interpelation number 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 is withdrawn. We've dealt with this, or we haven't dealt with interpelations for the Prime Minister. The House's earlier decisions allow us to continue smoothly, not to wait until 16 o'clock, but to continue continuously to interpel on the members of the government. Here I would like to ask the present and absent presidents of the MPs or their representatives to draw attention to this fact that they will continue to consult each member of the government. It is my great honor that at least five interventions will be granted because both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Justice Helena Válková are present. I will ask Mr Jan zahradník to give his first interview to the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař on the R3 express road on the Austrian border. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the construction of the R3 expressway section from Dolní Třebonín to the state border. I am a long-term regional and municipal politician in southern Bohemia and, as such, I have, among my priorities, the support of the construction of the D3 motorway and the subsequent R3 expressway. And I also have a very urgent personal reason. As the commander of the South Bohemia Region, I was less than an hour after the tragic traffic accident in Nažidil, in that place, and my ears still sounded like cell phones ringing in those backpacks lying under the tree where the firemen put them. And that's when I thought I'd do everything in my power to be in any political position to support the construction of that highway. The speed communication R3 follows on the Austrian side on the S10 motorway whose construction is slowly approaching its conclusion. The open section of Freistadt Nord - Freistadt Süd will be on 15 November. The section between Unterweitersdorf and Freistadt Nord will be opened by the end of next year. And we're still not doing anything, we're still waiting. The final decisions are made, there is nothing to prevent the purchase of land from finally taking place by the State. And I ask you, Minister, what will the Ministry of Transport do to complete the construction of the R3 expressway from Trebonín to the state border, so that it will be completed by 2020 at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u7	I thank Mr Zahradník. I'll ask for an answer from Minister Antonín Prachař. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u8	Good afternoon. Mr President, thank you very much for your intervention. You know, there's been a lot of debate lately around the D3 motorway and the R3 link. Whether these are sections approved by the government in the context of over-the-limit contracts, where selection procedures took place and subsequently appeals to the Office for the Protection of Competition by competing contractors, and we are preparing today, and by the end of September, a breakdown commission will meet at the Ministry of Transport, which had the original verdict for two sections of the D3 motorway Borek-Ševětín, Ševětín-Durious to confirm our decision in the selection committees, so that we can then proceed further and start these sections as far as possible this year. This road, or highway, to be absolutely precise and not criticized by the media again, that I say expressways and I mean highways, this highway really is very important. It's a priority for this government. I have dealt twice with Austrian representatives, twice with Governor Pröll, once with the Governor in Linz, and we have agreed that we need to continue and do everything we can to ensure that, by the end of 2021, when the Austrian party assumes completion of the section on the state border, we find enough will to continue. However, I will tell you the real things that are going to your question. A feasibility study of a set of buildings called R3 Třebonín - Dolní Dvořiště was approved for this section of the expressway in July this year. And with the fact that the start of the Třebonín-Kaplice railway station and Kaplice railway station - Nažidla, it is possible to assume the implementation of the section Třebonín-Kaplice railway station and Kaplice railway station - Nažidla in the second half of 2018. The border section Nažidla - Dolní Dvořiště, the state border, where at this time, and I think this may be the difference of your information, is not yet available the valid territorial decision. In order to continue, we need to conclude an interstate agreement between the Czech Republic and Austria. We don't have that locked down at the moment, and we don't have the exact coordinates of the connection. We've moved on here, too. The Czech party prepared a proposal for an interstate agreement to connect the R3 expressway with the Austrian expressway S10, in the Dolní Dvořiště - Wullowitz. This contract has already been negotiated in an inter-resorative way and the Austrian party will be asked to take an expert meeting. Expert teams were created at the Road and Motorway Directorate and the Austrian ASFINAG with the participation of our representative corps in Vienna, where the current Ambassador was very actively involved in his former diplomatic mission in the Federal Republic of Germany and participated in such an agreement which was concluded between the Federal Republic and the Czech Republic on the D5 motorway. So he has a wealth of experience and is very available to us and helpful in solving this formal matter, thus clearly declaring the place of connection. No one could doubt in the future whether, in the context of the present territorial procedure, the place of connection is right or not. I would like to tell you that the Department of Transport will make every effort to ensure that the completion of the South Bohemian D3 motorway and the expressway is completed by 2021 so that we can effectively exhaust European funds under the OPD 2. Director of Construction Department Mr. . Čížek visited České Budějovice in the past, in the past weeks, several times, and we solved the possibilities of speeding up construction - not slowing down, speeding up construction and the České Budějovice circuit to find a solution that would suit Český Budějovice and could basically accelerate the process. Of course, more detailed information, if you require, I am ready to give you in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u9	I thank the Minister for his reply. I shall ask the Member for his supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your words. I hope they will be carved into concrete so that it will actually be valid. After setting the point of transition, after that, I already called as the governor, who I became in 2000. It's still okay. I ask you again, and please speed up the process of determining the transition point and the entire preparation of the motorway construction. At the same time, I also ask you to appeal to ŘSD to speed up land purchases, which are usually the main brake in the process of preparing the construction of the expressway. For the record, to Budějovice it's the D3 motorway, from Budějovice it's the R3 expressway. This is also the case in terms of the profile, given that on the Austrian side it is the construction of the S10 expressway. So once again, Minister, I beg you for the maximum support of these buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u11	I thank Mr Zahradník, the Minister no longer seems to want to respond. Thank you. We will move on to the second interview where Mr Karamazov - who is unfortunately absent, so she will probably not intersect Minister Helena Válková. Madam Secretary seems sad that she's sorry. So I'm canceling his absence interview. Let's move on to the third interview - Mr Radim Holeček. Also absent, so I'm interrupting Mr. Holeček's interpellation. And the fourth interview - Mr Martin Novotný will intersect the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař, on the development of the motorway network. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, my interpellation will be deliberately laid down by the general language, not by the professional language in the field of communication networks. We both come from Central Moravia together with the Minister. And as a Central Moravian, I have always wondered repeatedly during the last quarter-century when crossing the border to Austria towards Vienna about the particular symbolic situation where citizens of the Czech Republic still have to travel there on complex local roads, through villages at the beginning of Austrian territory. It has always been a symbol for me of that divided Europe 40 years after the war, a symbol of how two naturally adjacent territories have always separated from each other, including the separation of the non-existence of the motorway network. We're here in the attic. The House of Deputies has recently heard expressive expressions about the fact that in the quarter century after November, even the fucking highways have not been made. To me, the recent decision that we have fixed the state that a smooth link between the Czech Republic and Vienna is not really planned at the moment and we are planning to connect, perhaps more sophisticated, bypasses containing networks, but still lower classes of communications. I find this strategic decision scandalous, it seems to me as a resignation to a standard that works all over Central European countries around, and therefore I would like to ask the Minister in this way what reasons really led us to resign in this area to be unable to connect Moravian territory with a metropolis that is even geographically closer than Prague, our capital. I find it incredible, and I would like to hear those reasons in a far deeper argument than what was said in the media.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u13	I thank Mr Novotný and ask the Minister of Transport for an answer to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u14	Mr President, you said you had a general interpellation to the state of the road and highway network in the Czech Republic. I would like to say to you that, as far as the budget is concerned, the funds for the construction of motorway and express roads and adjacent sections of first-class roads, which are owned by the State and where the State has the opportunity to use European funds, are being implemented. [[14.50 hours]] It has been filled since about 2013 and, given what we are able to build, we do not suffer from financial need. If it was before that various representatives, our predecessors, were making excuses for the fact that this state has no money and therefore cannot build highways, they lied to our citizens. It's never been like that. The main complication in the construction of networks in general was the suspension of the purchase of land due to a price reduction from 1. 2. 2013. This law, which has the number 416, was adopted in 2009. Today is 2014. In 4.5 years no one came up with the fact that this problem exists, citizens do not want to sell land for charges lower than a fee on a public toilet, and nothing is done about it. At present, the situation has been corrected so that we can provide adequate funding for landowners in agricultural and forestry land and thus speed up the entire process of preparing investments. The amendment is accepted, approved and valid. Effective from 13. 9. This greatly increased the opportunity to grant fair rewards to landowners. The Road and Motorway Directorate has already begun the processing of expert opinions in advance, i.e. the valuation of individual land in the given locations, so that the relevant multiple can be applied and the purchase of land can be started and continued. We are assuming that we will be moving significantly until the end of this year, because we have to respect the 90-day deadline and only after that in case of agreement to proceed to expropriation. So this is where we're going for three months. In the meantime, we will analyse very carefully how individual discussions will take place with citizens and how the amendment will have an effect. As for your specific question, road R52 Brno-Vienna. In recent days, this case is very closely monitored, virtually. My statement from Monday's meeting with Governor Erwin Pröll. It was the second meeting in my brief time at the Ministry of Transport. We were really looking together for all the ways to find space together and connect the Czech and Austrian expressway. On the Austrian side it is a speed road that will be run from Freiburg - not from Freiburg, from Schrick it should be conducted in the arrangement of only two lanes. This was probably the result of the Austrian verification of the financial efficiency of the whole - the Austrian party informed us that it would only bring this communication to the Czech border according to the concluded contract, where the connection point is defined, in a two-track arrangement. I never said, and I repeat it again, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, that the Czech Republic will not build a motorway between Brno and Vienna. We have four lanes to Pohořelice, and from Pohořelice towards the state border we prepare the arrangement in the highway four lane profile. The restriction we have is the question of the transition of Novomlýn reservoirs, where there is a two-way arrangement, and here we propose temporarily to maintain this two-way arrangement during the crossing of Novomlýn reservoirs, and further, because the principles of territorial development of the region have been abolished, that is a fundamental fact for us, we cannot even make a pavement in the territory of the South Moravian Region at the moment. The principles of territorial development have been abolished following the submission of a citizens' initiative to the Supreme Administrative Court, and, as I am informed, the restoration of the principles of territorial development continues and should be renegotiated in the third quarter of 2015. The abolished principles of territorial development of the region are not limited to the cadastral territory of Mikulov, where we can continue to prepare further. It would be a great disgrace to this Republic if the Austrian side had brought their highway to the border and we could not follow it smoothly. As far as Mikulov is concerned, we will continue to prepare the purchase of land for the classic highway body in four lanes, so that when the agreement comes, we will be on our own land and can complete this section. Our idea is that, in the current state, there are already discussions between both sides, both the Austrian and the Road and Motorway Directorate, preparing a contract for the joint construction of border bridges, removing the problems arising from the Nilette on one side and on the other side. There were only differences in the fact that the Austrian side used a different height system compared to the Czech Republic. We are very close so that these agreements on the common progress of border bridges can still be concluded this year. I say it again and repeat it, and forcefully, I never said we wouldn't build a freeway between Brno and Vienna. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u15	Thank you, Minister of Transport. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u16	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for this interpretation. Of course, every one of us who follows developments in the territory of the last many years sees the most banal layer of the situation, i.e. while nothing has been built on the Czech side in recent years, the Austrian side has built many kilometers of motorways and I understand that zero movement from the Czech side could lead to a declaration of the position that the Austrian side is currently taking. I would simply ask the Minister to do so, and he has now assured me that in our positions we should never express any agreement or agree with the Austrian party's position. I think it would really be a shame to have one of these major moves for the future of future generations fixed in the form that arose during the Iron Curtain. It's not a question, it's just a supplement. The minister basically answered my question, but my appeal is that we do not fix this situation in any verbal way that it could actually become true in the next twenty-thirty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u17	I thank Mr Novotný. Mrs Jana Fischerová comes with the fifth interview, who will also interpel Mr Antonín Prachař in the matter of the vehicle register. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the name of the interpelation is simple - the vehicle register. And I am addressing you with a specific question from a particular citizen of the Vysočina Region. He came to me with the following request: How to solve a case where my passenger car was stolen. It's been 17 years, or 17 years ago, and my vehicle is still listed in the vehicle register. Although I have all the papers from the Police of the Czech Republic that the car has been stolen, but at the Department of Transport at the office responsible, so-called. On three, I was told that I didn't have proof that this car had been ecologically removed, destroyed. I want to ask you, I don't know, maybe it's being handled, but I don't know the answer, so I'd like you to explain to me how this is handled, whether it's being handled. I am really interested in this from the perspective of our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u19	I thank Mrs Fischerová and the Minister of Transport for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u20	Madam President, I would like to tell you how this is currently taking place and how it will take place after 1 January 2015, when Law No 56 comes into force, and what we are doing for it now. No registration in the central vehicle register is currently made on the stolen vehicle. We in the Central Vehicle Register nowadays do not know that the vehicle is stolen. It really is. The alienation is only reported to the Police of the Czech Republic and the inability to operate the vehicle is demonstrated by the operator and owner only by protocol from the Police of the Czech Republic. From 1. 1. After the owner's notification, he will register in the central vehicle register of decommissioning and a police report will be submitted to the request for exclusion. That is why we are now whether to modify the existing system of the central vehicle register so that we can set all changes to 1. 1. 2015. The Ministry of Transport sent two implementing decrees to the inter-ministerial commentary procedure for the amendment of Act 56. We've been a little late, virtually. stalled. It was in connection with the present short amendment of this law that we wanted to postpone brands at request and postpone § 48a regarding documentation at the technical inspection station. At the moment when we were clear that the Government recommended our proposal from the Ministry of Transport workshop to the Chamber of Deputies, the first and second reading took place, we immediately sent implementing decrees so that they could be familiarized with them. [[15.00 hours]] Detailedly on 1. 1. 2015. If the road vehicle has been stolen, I quote exactly §12 para. 5, requests the driver of the road vehicle to decommission the vehicle without undue delay after having heard about theft of the road vehicle. The application shall be accompanied by the police report, documents and tables referred to in paragraph 2. It shall be accompanied, if available, by the application. Paragraph 3 and 4 shall not apply to this. For temporarily decommissioned vehicles within one year, the address of the place where the disabled vehicle is located shall not be reported and the purpose of its use shall be considered to be extinct. This means that this vehicle will be permanently removed from the register. In the case of vehicles in the transfer, if no application for registration of the owner is submitted within a period of six months, the road vehicle shall also be considered to be extinct and permanently disabled. The local registration office automatically writes the vehicle's demise into the central register, which means that no citizen will have to visit the central register instead of the central register and demand such registration there. So these entries will run automatically. One year. At the moment when no check-out and transfer to another person is made, after six months it will be eliminated. This will also achieve the so-called. Cleaning up the register, when today we have a lot of vehicles called. in semi-transfers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u21	I thank the Minister of Transport. I'm asking the lady. He's interested in a follow-up question. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u22	Thank you. I was just thinking that this vehicle register, if it's not happening, it must be really overwhelmed, and sometimes it didn't work, so I figured there must be a lot of those vehicles. So may I say, Minister, to the gentleman in question, that he doesn't actually have until after 1:00. 1. 2015 possibility to solve everything in relation to the central register. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u23	I thank the Member and the Minister. Next, the sixth interpellation. I take the liberty of downloading it because it's my interpellation to the absent Minister of Finance. And since the Minister is absent, and since there's no one to replace me here, and I don't want to interrupt the House meeting, I'm pulling her out. The seventh interview is the interpelation of Mrs Marie Pěnčíková to the absent Minister of Education Marcel Chládek on new fields of study at universities. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u24	Thank you for the floor. Hello. Dear Minister, I have received very disturbing information about the alleged establishment of new fields of study in universities. Specifically, Palacký University in Olomouc is supposed to create a new branch focused on the management of church property acquired in the framework of the settlement with churches. That is why I ask, since this is just unsubstantiated information for me: Is the establishment of such fields of study in our public universities really considered? And if so, which schools are concerned, what specific fields are they going to be and how many students are supposed to be accepted into these fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u25	Thank you, ma'am. It will be answered in writing. We've got another interpelation, eighth in order. Mrs Gabriela Pecková will also intersect the absent Human Rights Minister Jiří Dienstbier on discrimination against Romani football players. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u26	Dear absent Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our legal order as well as the legal order of the European Union, which we are a member, does not allow any form of discrimination. The Czech Republic is very often on the lookout for human rights organisations and institutions of the European Union due to minorities, for example due to the lack of compliance with the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in the case of D.H. against the Czech Republic and so on. Sport is undoubtedly a very important socialization tool with great preventive potential for the coexistence of majority society with minorities. I therefore ask, Minister, what steps have you taken or intend to take in the event of discrimination against Romani football club Roma junior in Děčín. On Sunday, our parliamentary delegation is going back to the Council of Europe to Strasbourg and we will certainly not avoid various unpleasant questions, so I would like to know what we can do in the Council of Europe from our Minister for Human Rights on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u27	Thank you, ma'am. It will also be answered in writing. Mr. Michal Kučera will give the ninth interview to also the absent Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister absent, state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic, respectively. The new CEO of the Forests of the Czech Republic, Mr. Szórád, immediately after taking up office as his first event, issued a public contract for CZK 1.9 million for the company Drummer Partners for HR services, so called. by handing one tenderer without addressing or involving more than one tenderer. The state-owned company thus inefficiently spent millions of money on a senseless tender for four professional functions of the top management of the Czech Forests, namely the position of economic director, production technical director, administrative director and business director. The subject of this contract was only a mass written test of all applicants for a post at the premises of the state enterprise within three hours and then an interview by the Director General of the Forests of the Czech Republic with selected participants. All for less than two million crowns. Since the state enterprise has its personnel department, the entire overpriced contract appears to be a completely unnecessary waste of state resources. The sad result of this overpriced contract for CZK 1.9 million, by the way, at the time of the fight for transparency of public contracts and the clearing of the good name of the Forests of the Czech Republic according to your words, Minister of Agriculture, is the admission to the top management of the state enterprise of two known CEO of Szórád from the CE Wood Group and two employees of the Forests of the Czech Republic. I would like to ask you, Minister of Agriculture, how the price of the selection procedure was CZK 1.9 million. And since you're not here, I'll remind you who you've taken into the top management of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Director General Mr. . Szórád from Allwood groups, CEW group, economic director of engineer Buchta, whose father comes from Allwood group CEW, business director Allwood from CEW group, managing director of Forest of the Czech Republic, production director of Forest of the Czech Republic, department of internal audit from CEW group. You, Minister, have donated the Forests of the Czech Republic to people who have spent enormous resources from the Forests of the Czech Republic through disadvantageous contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u29	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm sure the Minister will be happy to answer his urgent questions. Mrs Anna Putnová will put the tenth interview on the also absent Minister of Education Marcel Chládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u30	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear absent Minister Chládek, I am sorry I cannot ask you a personal question. I didn't have the honour of last week when you weren't here to interpel, so I can't wait any longer and I have to at least turn to you through this. On June 20th of this year The Chamber of Deputies adopted an accompanying resolution asking the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to revise hygiene parameters for kindergartens in order to improve the availability of this infrastructure. It's been over a quarter of a year. I wonder, Minister Chládek, what steps you have taken in this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u31	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Petr Bendl, who is now popular with the Minister of Transport, will give an 11th interview on the Prague-Kladno expressway. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. No wonder he's popular today, because he's one of the few ministers involved, and he deserves a thank-you, even though we are sometimes critical. So I'm going to join those who appreciate the fact that you're sitting here, Minister, and you're answering questions. My question is simple because I have already intersected you on this matter about six months ago and it was a railway link project between Kladno and Prague, which is called a speedway. [[15.10 hours]] Although all those who are interested in this know that it is not a Shinkanzen, but it is basically a capacitance of this line and a solution to the situation for Kladenňáky and the people nearby to be able to use to travel to Prague, and there are not enough of them, those people, still around 24,000 people a day commute from Kladensko to Prague to be able to use more than the cars of the railway. I want to ask what changed about that time, Mr. Secretary. Whether you have worked in this, when the project will eventually be realized and what is new in the speedway project. You applied to this project last time, so I believe I'll learn something new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u33	Thank you, honourable Member. I will ask the Minister to say something new to the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u34	Mr President, I would like to continue with what has happened around the so-called Prague-Kladno Speedway. At present, the processed feasibility study available to the Railway Infrastructure Administration has failed to demonstrate efficiency in either of the monitored variants. The economic efficiency of this line has not been demonstrated and this results from one single conclusion: It is not possible to use economic resources effectively within the Operational Programme Transport in any of the proposed variants. There would be a risk of correcting the inefficient management of funds. We can't use funds for this trajectory. To add more: Therefore, a new update was entered immediately. Tunnel solutions, which are under Prague 6, which have only agreed opinions on environmental impact assessment in existing variants, and the prepared documentation for the territorial decision must either be optimized from the perspective of the technical solution's complexity or optimize the intended railway operation in order to give priority to lines with the strongest transport current and thus bring the greatest social benefit. This means giving priority to fast trains and express trains to Kladno. Each partner involved in the project will have to make concessions from their requirements, such as reducing requirements within the reach of trains for the territory of Praha 6, Praha 7. The required quantity is not effective along with the subway, with route A. If these concessions do not occur, it is not possible to assume the possibility of financing economically inefficient variants. Of course, the participation of the private sector in the construction, operation and financing is also a possibility for the project to be implemented. However, it is also necessary to have an economically efficient variant and variant for this type of project provision, which will obtain a building permit. We expect that, after confirmation of feasibility, it will be possible to complete the preparation so that we can finance the adjustments to this line under Operational Programme 2 for the period 2014 to 2020. I would like to say that at this point there are modifications to this line in the direction from Kladno to Prague. The government approved an over-the-limit public contract - Negrelli viaduct modification and the Railway Infrastructure Administration prepares all documentation for the selection of the contractor. It is still our priority to find solutions on this track. It is a disgrace to the Republic, when Prague has no connection to the centre of Prague and the airport, the dominant airport. Here I think that there really is only one option - to involve the private sector in this realization. I can say that at this point we have some signals from interested parties to participate and discuss the possibilities of the PPP project, and I have also discussed this on my recent trip to France to accompany the President of the Republic. In France, there is a state agency dealing with private and public partnerships, and I asked at an official meeting whether the staff of this agency could come to the Czech Republic so that they could help us prepare this PPP project if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u35	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bendl's supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u36	The Czech state gives approximately 12 billion crowns to the Czech Railways and there is not much to talk about, Minister. For me, the argument that the Czech Republic will essentially resign to the fact that it has worked out that it is inefficient, that we will not have, I will say, a railway connection to the largest international airport in the Czech Republic, which will separate several million visitors a year, that we will not have sufficient capacity solutions and that Kladensko will not be able to do so, structurally in the past, so that people from this territory can commute in an environmentally friendly way to Prague, is simply an argument that I am not willing to absorb. I think that information on economic inefficiency is very odd, considering how much money is involved in the České dráhy system and what will be more effective if we are looking for a private investor in a situation that you claim to be ineffective. She's a little conflicted. [[Attention on time.]] I'll ask you again in six months what you did. I will continue to worry you about this project because it is a region that all political actors have promised to do something about it. So you promised to work, so work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u37	Well, thank you, Mr Bendl. Mr Jan Birke, as well as the Minister of Transport, will give the 12th interview in the case of the Line Buildings Act. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will be very brief. The implementation of strategic buildings, motorways and railways should or should undoubtedly improve the Act on Line constructions. I want to say that not only is the state waiting for this law, but the regions and especially cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic are waiting for it. I would like to ask you what is the current situation with its preparation. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u39	I thank Mr Birke and ask Minister Prachař for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u40	Mr President, as regards your question about the Linen Buildings Act, Mr President. The Linen Construction Act has two parts. One part is planning the construction of transport infrastructure. This law is based on the German model, which also has two parts, that is construction planning, the federal plan for the construction of transport infrastructure, and then is the second part of this Act - generally on line construction, which says how we will proceed in the handling of construction areas and the assessment of environmental impact within the framework of a single integrated permit. We started working on this law, we started working on it in March, when I had it translated into the Czech language and sent to all the trade unions involved at the Ministry of Transport the German law so that they could get acquainted with it. We have also started working with external organisations and associations such as ARI, the Association for Infrastructure Development, and we have prepared the basic material, the basic thesis of the Linen Construction Act - the first part, which means where we say how the state will be able to plan the construction of transport infrastructure. At present, I must say that planning the construction of transport infrastructure is based on sectoral strategies approved by the government, not by Parliament. If we come to a situation and we have a law like this here, where from the start to the final decision to conduct the route, we will avoid various discussions that we are currently seeing, for example, in České Budějovice, where we assess whether one or two or three or five conventions are optimal. Unfortunately, at this point, the state does not have the opportunity to say clearly on the basis of the law, which way will lead the route of strategic communications, whether road or rail. [[15.20 hours]] Of course, the mistake was that we didn't know, or the management of the Ministry of Transport, my person, it's my fault that I didn't know that we had to have such a bill - I admit it - a processed assessment of the impact on the state and business sector, or RIA. When I found out, I put these jobs in place so that we could fix it very quickly. There was a two-month slip, and based on the current analysis of how the preparation of this law looks, I assumed personnel responsibility at the Ministry of Transport and immediately called off the Head of Legislation and replaced it by a team of four people. One of them is from the Government's Legislative Department. The current state that it is. The Ministry of Transport requested on 23. 6. 2014 Prime Minister on the transfer of the deadline for submission of the substantive intention of the Act on Line Buildings to the deadline until the end of October 2014, i.e. from the sixth month to the tenth. The Government has discussed this request, and Resolution No. 631 out of 30. 7. set a new deadline for submitting a proposal for the substantive intention of the Line Buildings Act by the end of October. At present, the work is ongoing and we are ready in the first decade of October to send a bill to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure that lasts 15 days, and then we will be able to submit this law to the Legislative Council of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u41	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u42	Thank you, Minister, through Mr President, for the erudite answer. I am very glad that I can confront your words to some extent, especially for example. in the Economics of 15 May 2014, where you said directly: "Until mid-June, there should be a substantive intention, in October and November, as amended, it should apply from 1 January 2016 and it should be built in 2018.' I understand that, despite the fact that somehow your legislative department - I do not take it as - I am sorry, again through Mr President - your mistake. I think that's a question of course the head of legislation who didn't tell you that a RIA needs to be developed for such a fundamental standard. But I understand because we're all waiting for that law, that is. the words you said, including my quote, apply, and I firmly believe that the substantive intention in October with the terms 2016, 2018 will apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u43	Thank you, Mr Birke. With further intervention by Mr Jiří Petrů, who will also intersect the Minister of Transport in Case R52. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, the R52 expressway ensures the speed link between Brno and Mikulov and Vienna in the direction of the international draw E461. To connect the expressway to the newly built Austrian A7 motorway near Mikulov it is necessary to newly build or extend the existing road built in the 1990s between Pohořelice and Mikulov. This follows from the crucial document, which is the Regional Development Policy of the Czech Republic of 2008, Chapter No. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. 106) R52 "Improvement of road connection Brno-Vienna" The Austrian authorities confirmed this fact by the 1971 Bundesstraßengesetz, as amended in 1999, with the BLBL number 182/1999, and by the Bundesstraßen-Übertragungsgesetz, with the number BGBI I 50/2002. The result is an international agreement signed between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Austria on 23 January 2009. On 22 September your meeting with Dolnorakou Governor Erwin Pröll took place and in the media the result of your negotiations was interpreted so that for the connection of Brno with Vienna is not considered with four lane road connection. This information has produced a very negative response from both the public and the institutions, which have been trying for decades to connect both cities at a steady pace. It is completely incomprehensible to consider that the section between Pohořelice and Mikulov will remain as two lanes, when the other connections on the Czech and Austrian sides are four lanes. Minister, you partially answered in the fourth interview. However, I ask you to make a clear statement that The Ministry of Transport will continue to prepare the interconnection of Pohořelice-Mikulov with four lane communications in order to comply with international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u45	Thank you, Mr Petrů. I will ask the Minister for answers, although he has already partially responded in the previous interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u46	Mr President, I would like to reaffirm and recapture what is currently happening around R52. Again, I would like to say that we cannot continue at the moment because we do not have the principles of territorial development of the South Moravian Region. These were abolished by a civil initiative submitted to the Supreme Administrative Court and were abolished due to errors in documentation in the principles of territorial development of the region. According to the assurance of the Governor of the South Moravian Region, Mr Hašek, new principles of territorial development are being prepared, which should be discussed in the third quarter of 2015. Again, I would like to assure you that the abolished principles of territorial development of the region do not concern the cadastral territory of Mikulov, and therefore we can continue to prepare the Mikulov bypass. I never said we wouldn't continue the motorway profile between Brno and the state border. The contract you're talking about in 2009, I suspect it is, it doesn't say what profile this connection is going to be. She's just saying there's going to be a speed connection to the Drasenhofen border crossing. I showed this contract this week during my performance on Czech Television. I had her with me, I was looking for her, unfortunately she stayed at the Department of Transport, otherwise I could have her photos taken of what the contract looks like. We will continue to prepare the four-string arrangement from Pohořelice towards the state border, and again I say, as part of the preparation of the Mikulov bypass, which, at this moment, after discussing with the Austrian side, we are preparing for the construction process as a two-string, but the purchase of land will take place for the four-string profile so that in the future we can complete this highway in the full category as it should be, and as it is provisionally negotiated with the Austrian side as well as with the Austrian side. I really don't want to get into a situation that's in Znojmo today, where we have the most expensive inline track in four lanes in the middle of Znojmo, which doesn't follow anything. In the same way, two lanes would end up on the border with Austria, and Austrian communication wouldn't follow them. I will do my best, and in all negotiations I will stress that it is necessary for the Austrian side to proceed to full completion in the motorway profile as part of further developments in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u47	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to another interview by Mr Jan Farský, who will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš on strategic ownership policy of the state, I will read further apologies which have somehow been made: First, Mr Jaroslav Borka apologizes today from 17.30 for personal reasons, Mr Igor Jakubčík apologizes from 15 to 11 tomorrow for personal reasons. Mr. MP... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, [[Laughs in the hall.]] So, Mrs Gabriela Kňourová apologizes... No, I'm sorry, I'm finding out. Mr Beznoska apologizes for today's work-related negotiations. Mr Pavel Šrámek also apologizes today from 14.30 for work reasons. There. I will ask Mr Farský to interpel him to the Minister of Finance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u48	Dear absent Minister, first of all, I would like to say hello to the election campaign for the Senate elections to Vršovice, even though I would of course prefer that you be here to answer my interpelation directly. In 2013, the Government approved material called the Government Strategy to Combat Corruption for the period 2013 and 2014. This material is also taken over by the current government and one of the important points is the so-called state ownership policy strategy, which at first glance may seem like another of the official documents and other strategies that do not make much sense. But this one is supposed to set up and respond to the Security Information Service reports, which calls this area one of the most complicated and burdened not only by non-transparency, but especially by increasing policy with business. This ownership policy strategy should define how it will be treated by companies that it controls, how it will occupy individual management bodies, how it will be held responsible for this, how it will be regulated by closure and their contractual freedom between them and, on the one hand, between these companies and other persons. It also points to the possible compulsory publication of contracts that these companies would conclude. At the same time, they talk about the possible limitation of certain negotiated procedures without publication in these companies and, of course, they also deal with the remuneration of these members of the corporate bodies, the control of the evaluation, functioning and strengthening of external and internal control. I do not insist that all promises must be fulfilled and that it is always necessary to manage the state as a company, but at this point I dare say that I cannot imagine that you would manage your companies in this way, Minister, because that is not how you would have to run any companies today, because they would not be. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u49	I thank Mr Farský, who will be answered in writing. I will ask Mrs Marta Semelová, who will also intersect the absent Minister of Education Marcel Chládek in the matter of tuition in primary schools. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u50	Thank you. Dear Minister, my intervention concerns the financing of bilingual classes for ordinary, not private, but for public primary schools by parents. I was informed that some primary schools established by municipalities working with private educational agencies collect fees from parents amounting to CZK 18 to 67,000 per year per pupil. For a fee, pupils are placed in classes with fewer pupils and have two teachers, one of whom is a native speaker. This teacher is chosen by agencies that decide on the equipment of classes and the textbooks used. In addition, they also have afternoon intensive teaching of other subjects, without which they cannot do during afternoon teaching. Parents pay for children obligatory. Personally, I consider this to be totally unacceptable when access to better education depends on the financial situation of the family. I therefore want to ask how it is possible that parents pay for an education which is free of charge under the Constitution in primary schools of public authorities. Let's go. Do you consider it normal for such early selections to be created at such an early age by selected children's clubs of more possessive parents? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u51	Thank you, Madame, for this interpellation. Mrs Věra Kovářová will address the 16th interview to the absent Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, on the direct election of mayors. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, the government of which you are Vice-President refused this Monday our proposal to introduce a direct election of mayors. I confess that I was very unpleasantly surprised. I don't want to comment on individual arguments right now. I believe there will be enough space during the first reading. I'm more interested in how it is possible that the intention to impose a direct election of mayors on the government has failed, even if you yourself have expressed your support in the past. Dear Minister, have you changed your mind about this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u53	Thank you, ma'am. The Minister will reply in writing. We will proceed to the 17th interview where Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will interpel the present Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček in the case of the Hospital Na Homolce. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u54	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, I will follow up on the last interview concerning the subsidiaries of the Hospital Na Homolce, where the hospital's contribution organisation owns 70 percent of the shares of Holte a. s. and owns a 100% subsidiary of Holte s. r. o., which in turn controls 30% of the shares of Holte a. s. I'm asking, why is there this weird interlocking of a state contribution organization with a business company that's actually been here for at least 18 years? How is it possible that a hospital of such size does not have a standard accounting department and that all accounting services are constantly awarded to Bialešová s. r. o., even if the public contract that has been published has expired? And how is it that, after all the findings of the auditors that were, as well as the police, Mrs Bialešová is still the CEO of the subsidiary Bialešová s. r. o.? During the meeting at the Audit Committee, you stated that you would provide us with the relevant audit and your findings within 14 days. We haven't gotten anything yet. On the contrary, we learn that subsidiaries cannot be abolished for at least two years because 20,000 items have to compete. Contracts for external legal services have been issued at CZK 60 million for four years, although the hospital has its own lawyers and also has an external lawyer who is paid CZK half a million a month. I can't quite understand that. Is it true that Na Homolce Hospital still refuses to hand over to the Ministry the complete accounting documents of its subsidiaries? How will your ministry address this situation? I, Minister, would like you to enforce the legislation of the Hospital Na Homolce, to enforce an accelerated call for general meetings of subsidiaries and to remove Mrs Bialešová from the office of CEO Holte s. r. o. and to arrange for an in-depth audit of the management of the Hospital Na Homolce and subsidiaries. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u55	I thank Mr Hovorka. I'll ask the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given that the topic of this interpelation largely coincides with that of last week's intervention, I can say that the answer to this issue will be contained in a written reply to Mr Hovorka's interpelation of 18 September on subsidiaries and accounting and legal services at Na Homolka Hospital. Perhaps I will just add to the brink of the problem that the Minister of Health can implement basically one basic thing directly in directly managed organizations if he is not satisfied - change the director. As you probably know, the tender for the director of the Hospital Na Homolce has been issued and the selection committee is meeting next Tuesday. After that date, I think things will get a little different pace, a different pace, and they will be dealt with quickly. However, until then, I would not like to take any steps that might enable this selection process to be challenged.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u57	I thank the Minister of Health. Mr Hovorka has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u58	Yes, thank you for your word. Minister, of course I know about the tender. In this context, it is said that the new director of the company should become the person associated with the AGEL chain, or that comes from this chain. Of course, it's unverified information. Nevertheless, I would ask for an explanation as to whether the Na Homolce Hospital refuses to pass on the documents relating to the management of subsidiaries and Mrs Bialešová's question and her remaining in office as an executive, because she is actually a private person, in addition in the contractual relationship with the hospital. I suppose she shouldn't be there because it's not right. And another thing. I believe that you want to resolve this, but I would like you to comment on the existence of those subsidiaries in terms of their possible abolition and, above all, an accelerated call for general meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u59	I thank Mr Hovorka. Supplementary answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I do not want to comment on speculation and gossip. I don't know, and I don't have the oracle skills to succeed or fail in a selection procedure at Na Homolce Hospital, first of all. Secondly, even if I had doubts about the outcome of the selection procedure, the Minister will appoint and recommend the selection committee and it will be on my responsibility who will be or will not be the director of the Hospital Na Homolce. And trust me, it's not gonna be connected to any dubious influence groups. This is not the case with AGEL, which is a standard entity that simply operates in health care. There are other people here who have work experience with this company, and there's no reason for me to question their integrity in any way. As far as subsidiaries are concerned, as I have already said, we will reply in writing. However, it's a thing that works in this hospital for 18 years. I was the minister who commissioned her to implement step by step steps to abolish these companies. I can't even call off any person from the authorities of subsidiaries set up by this hospital. I can change the director and it's called a tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u61	I thank the Minister for his follow-up response. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, the present Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař, will intersect further on the D11 motorway. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u62	I'm willing to take a few seconds of my time. I think it would be nice in the Rules of Procedure to cancel the paperwork on written interviews, because that kind of reading the official answers I think is uninteresting, and I would also forbid it for those who interpelulate to be balanced. The D11 motorway was reopened on July 22. I have a few questions. One. Who chose the place where the Prime Minister waved so cheerfully at the digger? Because that digger only worked there that day. No one's worked in that place since then. Two. Mr. Minister - I don't know if he or ŘSD? - concluded an amendment with the contractor. According to the calculation of ŘSD, the originally competitive price could have been reduced by up to 28 per cent. Some items there were as if critical or not fully documented. When we negotiated a discount about a year ago, the state's minimum threshold was set at 14 percent. And lo - the agreed discount is 7.25 percent, which is a big difference. So who actually decided on the amount of the discount. The third question is - there is an archaeological survey. The Minister certainly knows and will confirm that two companies had to exclude themselves from the three companies that volunteered. However, according to the Minister's public statement, he either tries to circumvent or violate the Public Procurement Act and says that the supplier will do so. Which, of course, doesn't work -- to get this to the original contractor under the original contract. I'm asking if by chance - and even if the contractor did it for free, maybe it's in the difference of 7 percent, the price of the archaeological survey, so the third question is, how will the archaeological survey be solved? And four. Do we have all the land, or do we not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u63	I thank Mr Stanjur for his clear questions. I'll ask the Minister for clear answers. Yes, the Minister always has clear answers, as I hear from Members. May this be the case now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u64	Mr President, I have prepared the entire chronology of the D11 motorway and you have narrowed it down to four points. So I'm going to answer those four points and leave you with some visions of what we're going to do, what kind of width arrangement and continuation from Hradec Králové to further away. You're asking me who picked the place to start construction. I'd like to say the construction cost eight years! Nothing's moved in eight years! For eight years, we insisted on starting this construction. And you're saying who picked the place. They were contractors. The contractors chose this place. So neither RSD nor my person picked him. That answered your first question. As for the discounts that you're saying were the idea of 28 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u65	I'm sorry, Minister. This is where the MPs fight because there is a glowing end to you instead of time. It's not that, I'm running out of time, you've got 4.5 minutes left. I don't know why it's on the board. I'll ask the attendant to change that. I wish it had nothing to do with your function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u66	[[With laughter:]] I don't think that's gonna happen. Regarding the discount that the Member here is talking about. Discount up to 28 percent. I would like to say that we have agreed to a discount of 18 percent on average, from 1.3 billion to 1.03 - it represents 280 million in order. And Mr Stanjura certainly knows how contracts are made with the contractor because he was the Minister of Transport. He knows that in these contracts, the so-called valorisation is that there are so-called commitment items where the state did not hand over the construction site to the contractor. We tried to negotiate these items with the contractor and on average we saved 18 %. I don't know about any regulations or any agreements historically intended to go towards a 28 percent discount. Responsiblely, I say we've saved 280 million. Archaeological reconnaissance. Yes, the Public Procurement Act. The Department of Transport and Directorate didn't break anything. We've put out selection procedures, three candidates volunteered, two didn't meet the qualifications, they had to be excluded. According to the Public Procurement Act, one remains and the tendering procedure must be cancelled. If we repeat this, we can do it forever. So we actually agreed on the basis of the offers we had, and we agreed with the contractor that the contractor had the opportunity to address a company that would conduct an archaeological survey. Among other things, it is the Hradec Králové Museum, it is not a private company. These funds, which will be used, worth CZK 18 million, will be used for the benefit of the Hradec Králové Museum, which remains the only one in the tender. I do not think that this is an uneconomical treatment of state resources, but if the Member is wrong, let him take any further steps. We've been blocking the construction of the road after eight years, strategic communication. As far as the land is concerned, it is no secret that part of the land, half of the ideal ownership of the land between Mrs Štrosová and Mrs Ludmila Havránková, bought out the city of Hradec Králové and we will deal with the exchange of these land for the existing land under the transport terminal. The second half of the land owned by Mrs Ludmila Havránková is dealt with in exchange between the State and Ludmila Havránková. At present, the approval of the implementation of this exchange at the State Land Fund is ongoing and relevant entries are being made to the cadastral offices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u67	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u68	I know I can only recommend it. I would advise the minister not to get upset, to answer specific questions calmly, and not complain that he has prepared the entire genesis from the clerk. I didn't really ask that. However, you didn't answer my first question. You say that after eight years you started construction in that particular place, and there was only work on 22 July, when you had a buffet there and when you waved at the digger. So how's the building been moving since then? At the same time, you admitted a breach of the Public Procurement Act. It is not that you can always act only economically, but in addition, you still have to comply with the Public Procurement Act. So who's gonna pay the 18 million? Who to whom? Based on what? In my opinion, and not only me, but according to legal analysis, it is not possible to expand the original subject matter of the archaeological survey order. Plus, when the contract was originally competitive. And I don't know who gave you that information, and maybe you could say it would go on forever. Look at the public procurement law, you'll know where it is. The law looks a little different. But even if you were right that it was the most economical solution, you still have to comply with the Public Procurement Act, or first enforce a change, and then proceed differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u69	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Secretary? The Minister does not wish to answer, to supplement. Mr. Jiří Štětina will give another interview to the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on aviation rescue. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would very much like to and could speak on the floor without paper, because I've been watching it since 1995, but it would be better if I read it, and then I will eventually complete the discussion. But I don't think there's gonna be a discussion. Dear Minister, whom I very much appreciate. A few weeks ago, Czech Television provided information on the granting of a fine of CZK 1 million from the Office for the Protection of Competition for a tender for financing air ambulances. The reason was that the Ministry of Health did not submit the specifications for this clientelistic tender. If your ministry doesn't have these documents, or rather someone doesn't want to present them, there are people in the ministry who have been meeting on the selection committee today, I can help you. I have all these documents because I obtained them in a perfectly legal way when I tried to prevent this tunnel from filing a criminal report that is still running. The financing of the air rescue service has been a corrupt system since 1995. Two private companies, thanks to politicians whose names are well known, have secured uncontrollable profits, which one of these companies even stores in a tax haven on the island of Vanuatu. I see progress in the fact that Members are finally getting an overview of the cost of the air rescue service, from which we have found that the cost of this segment of medical rescue services is constantly increasing, in contrast to the financing of the whole health care sector, where the increase in VAT, inflation, the koruna exchange rate, etc. will not be taken into account. There is no doubt that this is due to long-term and practically unaccountable contracts. Why, Minister, do I intercede you on this matter today? It's simple. Corruption contracts end in 2016 and need to be prepared the same, let's understand the clientelistic contractual relationship for the next eight to ten years. I believe that thanks to all information and mainly facts you will not be among your predecessors from the ODS, ČSSD, respectively. Former KDU-ČSL members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u71	Thank you, Mr Štětin. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this point I can mention what has been said in the interview, I do not know now, and I do not know the detailed information about the course of the selection procedure, which was discussed by the Member, which took place years ago. I can say for myself, and I don't know exactly what this interpelation was going to do, for myself, that I can say for sure at the time when the contracts with private entities ending, which provide eight out of ten bases for air rescue services in the Czech Republic, that we will certainly proceed with the care of a proper economy. We will certainly proceed in such a way as to ensure a high-quality and rapid air rescue service, and we will certainly follow the laws of this country entirely. I really can't tell you more about this, but thank you for the offer, thank you for the suggestions and I will look forward to working with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u73	Thank you, Minister. I shall ask the Member for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u74	I've only really got a quarter of a minute. I'm glad the Minister here confirmed what I said in the last question. And I believe that the contracts - they are new contracts, and they are usually being prepared for a year and a half to two years in advance. So it looks like time. But I'm glad, Minister, that you've given these guarantees, and I trust you and I'll keep my fingers crossed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Václav Horáček to the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec on the sponsorship activities of the Czech Post. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear absent minister, I have been addressing the question of the Czech Post, a state enterprise for a long time. Her presence, but above all her future. In this context, I have repeatedly pointed out that it does not seem right and economical to me if a state enterprise, which lamented its poor economic situation, which in the past forced its employees literally to undignified door-to-door sales, which, justified on the economy, wants to disrupt branches in small towns and municipalities, also spends considerable funds to support any godly activity, such as league football. We are talking here about millions or tens of millions of crowns per year, which I think is wrong. It was not so long ago that I held a seminar on the premises of this House for mayors and other representatives of local authorities. This is where we discussed, in particular, the further development of branches in the regions. We have also reached the question of sponsorship, respectively, in this discussion. the cost-effectiveness of the spending of funds. At that time, your first deputy promised that one of the priorities of the current ministry was to reduce all marketing costs of the company only to those directly related to the company's business activities. So I tried to find in the annual report of the state company Česká pošta in 2013, what expenditures are associated with, for example, sponsoring the Football Association of the Czech Republic, thanks to which we are playing for the Czech Post Cup. Unfortunately, the beautiful annual report on 104 pages does not contain this essential information. Nor can it find any other information relating to the management of funds in the company for the so-called marketing purposes. I am glad to hear that in 2013 the post office managed to save money. The decline in revenues was compensated by cost savings. Operating costs fell by 543 million year on year. The greatest savings were achieved in personal costs. The main reasons were to reduce the number of employees by 276 and to reduce the reserve for unselected leave. In other words, while support for football and other remaining activities was maintained, the post office was releasing its employees. So, question: Mr Minister, if you are already in the verification of how much mail, state enterprise, each year puts on the football cup, I would also like to ask you on this occasion for information as to how much it gives on another similar so-called. marketing support and whatnot. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u77	I thank Mr Václav Horáček. His interview will be answered in writing. And before I give the floor to Mr Koníček, allow me, my dear fellow Members, to welcome among us the delegation of the National Assembly of Kuwait. The delegation is headed by the Vice-President of the National Assembly and my honored colleague, Mr Mubarak Alkhurainej. Welcome to the Chamber of Representatives of Czech Parliament! [[Members get up and applaud.]] And we will continue to interpel Mr. Koníček to the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u78	Dear Minister, as Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, I often work with a register of political parties and movements available on the website of the Ministry of the Interior. This register was established on the basis of Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and political movements in 2001. The register also includes the history of published data. I say "should be" for reason, because it is only in the register of political parties and movements created after the establishment of the register. You can't read the history of the data with the old political parties. Minister, when the Ministry will bring the data in the register into compliance with Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and movements?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u79	Thank you, Mr Koníček. Fortunately, political parties do not take the old ones personally and take no offense. The next interviewer will be Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will intersect the absent Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Pavel Bělobrádek on the direct election of mayors. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Today it's my third interpelation, which I'm afraid will remain unanswered. Now, then, at least in the matter of the direct election of mayors. Dear Minister, this Monday the government rejected our proposal to introduce a direct election of mayors. My question is heading in the same direction as that of Minister Babiš. For me, it was a great disappointment that the government did not approve this proposal. However, I am interested in how it is possible that the intention to introduce a direct election of mayors in your government failed when the representatives of the coalition parties reported in this idea and, after all, in the recent past, your co-workers, for example, through Mr Cyril Svoboda's mouth. This objective is also in its statement by the Senator's club, which includes representatives of KDU-ČSL. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u81	Thank you, Madame. As the Prime Minister is not here, the reply will be sent to you in writing. We will proceed to another interpellation, which Mr Simeon Karamazov has and is intersecting with Minister Helena Válková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u82	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, the legislative department of the Ministry of Justice is currently preparing an amendment to the Civil Code. The proponents of the amendment claim that the Civil Code contains many mistakes, and it needs to be changed so that citizens know how the courts will decide the case or the case. On the contrary, their opponents argue that the code should only be given its space and then, if necessary, change it. There are a number of opinions in the media on this. I was intrigued by Dr. Čech, an assistant professor at the Department of Commercial Law of the Faculty of Law of Charles University, according to which, in addition to this kind of first aid rescue package, the Ministry will prepare a larger amendment next year, which will then affect the very substance of the Civil Code. I would therefore like to ask you, in relation to these facts, whether and how ordinary users of legislation, including entrepreneurs, will be informed about both upcoming amendments and whether there will also be a wider discussion of the legal public. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary's here, so I assume she's ready to answer your question. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u84	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, dear colleagues, I suppose I will answer your question comprehensively. If this is not the case, please further clarify your question. It is, I suppose, also a question that you had in mind in the first interview where I was present on time, but you were missing again. So I guess we'll get it together now. As far as the amendment to the Civil Code is concerned, we are currently working on it. Practically speaking, or in fact, we've spent more than 10,000 hours on this preparation. In total, we have gathered some 700 substantial relevant comments on the amendment of the various provisions of the new Civil Code, initiatives that have come from the courts, public authorities, professional associations, but also from the professional public. So it can't be said that they're individuals. We have divided the comments into two or three categories. One would clearly concern a more fundamental analysis that we do not have at our disposal, so we do not take these comments into account in the current legislative process and preparation. However, most of the comments were assessed as material and there was ambition during the summer months to process such an amendment that would go beyond the framework of the technical amendment. As you may have seen in the media, at the end of summer or at the beginning of September, such a technical meeting took place on the grounds of the constitutional law committee that he was meeting, however, at an exit meeting in Špindlerův Mlýn, and he addressed, among other things, the first part of the amendment proposal, where the scope and the way in which the reform was discussed, which was often criticised, that it was a reform in too short a time, as it was therefore conceived. In conclusion, however, which has also been mediated to you, it can be said that such a large extent, which means too much change in the new legislation of the Civil Code, has not come across a positive response. On the contrary, we have mostly recorded critical voices. So I must say for my person that I was very pleased that I decided that we would meet at first on the ground more or less informally and test the helpfulness that would then await us here - or not the helpfulness during the legislative process, at the moment when we sent the amendment proposal to the commentary procedure. Thus, the final work on the rest of the amendment is currently under way, because so far the draft amendment of the provisions has been prepared to some extent up to Section 450 and then also the draft amendment relating to consumer protection provisions, the consumer contract where the criticism of the expert team's comments were directed to the lack of implementation of the European directives in the wording of the current new Civil Code. In the meantime, an assessment was also drawn up by the head of the author's team of the new Civil Code, Professor Eliáš, who rejected the conceptual amendment after such a short period of time. We also received opinions from the Czech Bar Association. We gained critical reflections also from the professional public, from the Faculties of Law in Prague, Olomouc, then from other academic workplaces.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u85	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, your five minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u86	Well, I'll make it short. If I may, two more sentences. Two sentences. The first sentence points to the fact that we are currently finishing the work on the last amendments to the provisions, or we are finishing the amendment work on the rest of the provisions that we would like to amend. And the second sentence is that we would like to hold expert seminars during October, in which we would inform the professional public about our intentions. Only then will we decide, or I will decide at the Ministry of Justice with a team of experts, what extent we will put into the official commentary procedure. We do not want to endanger legal stability and we also want to respect the opinion of the professional public, which will be binding on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u87	Thank you. That was a really long two sentences. I would like to ask Mr Karamazov whether he will have an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u88	I've only been for a very short time. I don't know exactly what the secretary picked up from my answer. I wasn't really here for the first one either, I connected it. My question was whether the public or the users of the legal standard would be informed somehow. If so, then so be it. And whether the professional legal public will be involved in the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u89	Thank you. Madam Secretary will fill in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u90	Thank you. So one more time. They will be informed, expert seminars will take place. At present, the most pressing issue that we are dealing with is the scope of the amendment, because, as I mentioned in the first response to your question, the scope of the amendment, which so far covered the first 450 provisions, is obviously too complex and too changing even some of the principles to submit it with all responsibilities then into the commentary procedure. So the means will be expert seminars that start from October to individual groups of questions thematically sorted, such as inheritance as example, marriage, execution, in connection with the new Civil Code. So these are the circles of questions that will be given increased attention to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u91	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for keeping time. Mr Petr Bendl, who interpels the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, is next in line with his interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've tried to intersect the Minister for several times, but since he doesn't go to interpelation and ignores them, I can't at least forgive myself for asking myself a question in any way, I know I won't get an answer. The Ministry of Agriculture has taken over the concept created by him, I will say, predecessors, the Minister, the concept of agricultural diplomacy and the promotion of trade relations with countries in the east. I read that the Minister of Agriculture wants to send his trade diplomats to Ukraine and also to Russia. But since I know he personally hung the Ukrainian flag at the Department of Agriculture, I want to ask what he expects from trade diplomats sent by the Ministry of Agriculture in Russia or Russia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u93	Thank you. Since the Minister is not here, you will be answered in writing. Next in line, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, but I don't see him here. So, in that case, we'll continue. Another enrollment is Mrs Pěnčíková Marie, who has an interview with Minister Richard Brabec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u94	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the question of the waste management plan is a problem that extends from the last House. The mere extension of its validity until the end of last year was not a very happy solution and unfortunately for you the obligation to deal with it fell on you. Already in February you informed us here during the interviews that the binding deadline for you is the end of this year. We're at the end of September, which is why I'd like to ask what stage we're at. According to my information, the settlement of objections to the waste management plan took place on Tuesday. I have two basically simple questions here: when will the waste management plan reach the government and if you are sure that the end of the year is a deadline in which the waste management plan can be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u95	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u96	Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for your question, Madame. I'm glad I can be brief and clear. So, as you correctly announced, actually, the second round of commentary procedure within the interreort is over. At the moment, the comments, which came a number of, but I think the key part managed to deal with without problems, so they are incorporated into the material, with the fact that at the moment they are also done so called. The EIA, which is actually the impact of this concept on the environment, is currently at a stage where we really want to put the material into government during November, so that by no later than 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u97	Thank you. I want to ask if you'll have a follow-up question. It's not like that. Okay. Another, 27th in the ranking, was drawn by Ludvík Hovorka, who interpels the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, according to the Supreme Audit Office's findings No. 13/22 and according to Insider, which refers to it, the hospitals of the AGEL network were favoured by the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company with a range of approximately 180 million crowns. These were specifically the hospitals Třinec-Polesí, Nový Jičín, Vítkovice. I would like to know how the Ministry dealt with this SAO find, what it will do to ensure that such advantages are not possible, and how it will face the fact that there has even been reimbursement of experimental treatment, which is not to be covered by public health insurance at all. In my opinion, these are very serious findings from this control, and I think the Ministry should react decisively, because we had a debate here about whether or not hospitals and health insurance companies should be controlled by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. So I look forward to hearing your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I must first say that the claims made by the Member here have already been made earlier that I have not found any evidence of them. I have studied the Supreme Audit Office's findings 13/22 very carefully and the information that specific hospitals would benefit there simply doesn't contain the finding. Dear Chamber of Deputies, no matter how angry I am, I will not comment on articles in an Insider journal or whatever it is called. I really don't. I'll comment and the Ministry will deal with the Supreme Audit Office's findings. So let me respond to the official find of the Supreme Audit Office and the facts that appear there. The Ministry of Health has carefully assessed the SAO's conclusions contained in this finding, and although the SAO notes that there has been no infringement of laws, the Ministry of Health will take measures to increase the transparency of health care payments and overall financial flows in health care. It is in the external commentary procedure that the draft law, the draft amendment of Act No 48, will achieve the compulsory publication of health insurance contracts for additions, including information on whether or not they comply fully with the current payment decree. When controlling the management of health insurance companies, the Ministry of Health will place increased emphasis on the area of providers. In response to the control of the Supreme Audit Office in the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Corporation, this insurance company will be subject to a check by the Ministry of Health aimed at determining whether sufficient corrective measures have been taken on the basis of this check. Once again, special emphasis will be placed on the area of payment to individual providers. To be completed, the number of employees who control health insurance companies and control the management of directly managed organisations will be significantly increased from 1 January next year. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u100	Thank you, Minister. Will you have an additional question, Mr. Ambassador? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u101	Yes, I will. Mr Vice-President, Minister, I don't know how Insider got the numbers, but of course you don't have to comment. I would like to ask for an explanation of the reimbursement of the experimental treatment, which is not in the list of performances, because this has also been brought to the attention, and I would also like to say that the sentence actually appeared in Law 48 in 2008, that if the insurance undertaking agreed beyond the payment decree, that is basically legal. So let's say that in this case, the insurance company acted legally. The other problem is that there has been an advantage to our own health establishments at the expense of other health establishments. And that is the fundamental problem, because it is generally known how the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company was created, when it had to merge with three other insurance companies from a miniature insurance company that had reached the prescribed number of insured persons and because it could not normally continue to exist. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u102	Thank you. I'm sure the Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me really just respond to the Supreme Audit Office's finding, not to the claims made by some media, and there is no mention of any favouration in the Supreme Audit Office's finding. One. Secondly, on the supplementary question by the Member, why performances which have not been included in the list of performances have also been covered. I would not call this an entirely experimental treatment, but perhaps colleagues who know the health system and who are orienting in it will certainly confirm that there is always a certain number of performances that are available before they reach the list of health care performances, because it is a rather lengthy process that is assessed by the Commission, and medicine is going very quickly and it happens that the performances are available, which insurance companies, not only the Czech Industrial Insurance Corporation, simply pay outside the performance tariff on the basis of a preliminary calculation. Similarly, it is with the General Health Insurance Corporation. At the time when these performances are verified by practice, negotiations will take place in this commission and then, by decree of the Ministry of Health, they are included in the list of performances. We have taken some feedback from the SAO's findings that it needs to be done as quickly as possible so that the process is not unnecessarily long. However, it will remain the fact that there will certainly be performances that will first be covered on the basis of these calculations and then on the basis of the list of performances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u104	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr. Marian Jurečka, was drawn on 28th in the order with his interpelling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u105	Mr Vice-President, I wanted to address Minister Marian Jurečka with an interview on the methodology for submitting contributions to forest management. Since the Minister is not present, and since I am addressing him with my interpellation for the first time, I withdraw the interpelation and submit it at some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. 29. Mr. Michal Kučera, who withdrew his interpelation, was drawn and 30. is Mr. Radim Holeček, who intersects Minister Antonín Prachař on the D8 motorway. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u107	Dear Minister, I remember in the campaign, it was almost a year before the parliamentary elections in 2013, the ANO candidates accentuated the theme of the completion of the D8 motorway. I'm sure my colleague Brabec will remember how we were full of it in the pre-election debate on television, and he was full of it, that he had to get it done as quickly as possible. Almost a year has passed, and I would like to ask on behalf of the inhabitants of our region, whose unfinished D8 still complicates life, what is new and how you moved it, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u108	I beg you, Minister, to answer how you moved it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u109	Mr President, as you can see, I have no basis with me, but this matter is very lively, so I still have it in my fresh mind. As far as the eight is concerned, I would like to say that Mr. and I visited the problematic place in Dobkovičky sometime in March, a few weeks after this government was established. At the scene, we looked at the state of the slide, and both of us, I think, agreed that it was sad that more than nine months after the slide, no one came to this place and began to solve the problem. If I take the chronology further away from the time we met there, representatives of CHKO. We agreed to cut down the fallen vegetation and build a driveway communication so that heavy technology could come to the site and start drilling and explore the geological subsoil on the site of the slide. We had the first knowledge at the end of May, in June we promised that the basic thesis and the study of how we wanted to deal with this slide would be processed. This is what we've kept. We found that the water level was constantly rising there and the whole problem of the slide was caused by the fact that in the quarry where the mining was carried out, the soil was raised on the upper edge of the slope, and thus the upper side of the slope was overloaded, and due to the six-metre layer of the bottom water on the clay base, it was logical to take off. This couldn't have gone any other way. At this point, we have a geological survey, we have a project of slope remediation at the moment, and the first request to the Governor of the Ústí Region has been submitted, I think, sometime in July, with the request of a state of danger for us to begin the remediation of this slope. The objective of the state of danger is not to circumvent the Public Procurement Act. It must be said that the site of the slope is not in the property of the state and we must be able to enter foreign lands. It should also be said that we need to follow up on the synergies of the progress work with the quarry operator today, and we can do that if we have a state of danger, and the governor can order in this state the immediate execution of some remedial work. The Governor asked us for a refill after he did not satisfy the original material and stated that there were no significant facts to declare the state of danger. We agreed to submit the supplemented material by 10 September, and we did so on 8 September, two days earlier. At this point, we are waiting for the captain of the Ústí Region to deal with our request. We are promised that the statement should fall tomorrow. Even if it were negative again, we are preparing another alternative in connection with the construction law. We have prepared appropriate submissions for the construction office so that we can immediately begin the remediation of the slope. Conjectures and hypotheses that this bailout should cost more than one billion were not confirmed in our project. Sanitation is essentially given in two stages, and it is the extraction of soil from the upper side of the slope, the construction of drainage of the line line in an open ditch and the construction of drainage, the introduction of lower water levels into the waterworks, which is behind the highway, and subsequently at the bottom of the slide carried out stabilization. By begging. There are no drillings, no pilots, no constructions previously speculated on in the past. Estimated costs for the first stage, i.e. drainage and removal of the part of the slide, they range according to the designer in order up to 80 million, other costs including the construction of fixing ribs should not exceed 300 million. The Road and Motorway Directorate and the Ministry of Transport are ready to start this work immediately and continue. The other sections are being worked on, there is a question of change during construction, which has to be discussed by the Road and Motorway Directorate with the contractor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u110	Thank you, Minister. The Member seems to have a supplementary question prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u111	It's just a summary. So, we have no choice but to pray that the first communist politician will come to his senses, and when the election is over, he will act. He should be acting now, but I'm under the impression that he's waiting for the local elections to end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u112	Thank you. That was a statement. I understand it wasn't a question, Mr. Ambassador. It wasn't a question. Okay, thank you. Before we go any further, two apologies arrived at me, I'll read them. The first is that Mr Karel Černý apologizes from today's meeting, and between 16.15 and 19.30 he apologizes for family reasons Mr Jiří Holeček. Mr Jan Birke, who is interpelling once again Mr Antonín Prachar, the Minister of Transport of Mr Antonín Prachař, was drawn first in the order of interpellation. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u113	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me ask the Minister of Transport, by your means, whether he is aware of the essential time pressure and limited scope for preparing the selection procedure for the toll system operator for 2017. I say this with full responsibility and full seriousness, because at present and in the long run the situation is - I do not blame the Minister, of course, because there were a number of ministers before him, there has been a phenomenon where a number of trucks, especially those foreign forwarding services, pass through municipalities, cities in the category of roads of the second and third classes, and clearly bypass the toll system, which, of course, leads to a great deal of devastation mainly in communications. One. [[16.30 hours]] Secondly, there is no doubt that safety in the municipalities is very miserable. Unfortunately, these trucks also pass through small towns and small towns, which do not have city police, because they could to some extent deal with crossing especially in the morning hours when children go to school, and even in the afternoon when they leave school. But the big problem is, these roads are getting to the bottom of the road with the public's forgiveness. This means in other words, it is second and third class communication, which are in the administration and property of the regions. Apparently, under the current tolling system of the region, they do not receive funds. I want to ask you how this thing will continue. That's a). B), whether we are aware or the Minister is aware that there is a delay in time and there is no danger that the situation will not change because it will not happen by 2017. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u114	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u115	Mr President, I have a very extensive answer for you on three pages, which I will, of course, give you in writing. However, to your two questions. As regards the second and third class road devastation and the charging of transport infrastructure. The government programme statement does not mention at this time that we would like to expand the network of toll roads and motorways of express roads by 2017 except for those sections that will be completed by 2017 and where Capsch, the operator, is obliged to provide these sections with toll gates under a ten-year contract. In this context, I would like to say that the Government of the Czech Republic from the Ministry of Transport has been subject to a single procedure without publication, nor can we do otherwise, because the contract, Capsch has a ten-year contract, and we cannot open up a tender by this time on the basis of a contract to another provider who would be able to enter the toll routes, and it is about opening and connecting two other toll gates on completed sections. I'm not gonna tell you exactly what it is right now, but I can fill them in. So at this point, with regard to charging transport infrastructure on the roads of the second and third classes, we are not considering addressing this charging method by 2017. It's normal and it's legitimate and logical. If we are at a stage where we select a new myth operator after 1 January 2017, it would really be useless to interpret funds in other ways of charging and invest funds in toll gates or any other system that will then prove ineffective. This is to your question, how can we deal with existing charges of classes other than those we have in the state's property? I'd like to say that For the first time in history, the Ministry of Transport has perhaps found funds to help regions support repairs and maintenance of mostly bridges, and we are ready to provide a billion-dollar amount next year, which should primarily serve to eliminate infrastructure defects of this type. As regards the selection procedure for the toll, respectively. the myth operator. I've heard so many times that it won't be so-called time. I would like to say that the toll system that has been built and built in the Czech Republic since 2006 when the Czech Republic was one of the first countries where the toll system was applied in practice. Everyone else came after us. The Federal Republic of Germany, Slovakia and others. The Czech Republic was basically a pioneer of the performance charging of transport infrastructure at all. The microwave system, which is owned by the state, has been selected and this system must continue to be developed until the completion of the contract. I recently signed a document that went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the field of registration of the Czech Republic to the so-called. European e-myth service. The European Electronic Myth Service basically involves the way in which one car toll box is compatible with both the microwave and the satellite system. Even the European directive encourages us to start acting under this directive by the end of 2014. We did it. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs left a material which should subsequently be sent to Brussels. We have applied openly to the European myth project. So we continue with this regardless of how the tender for the new operator takes place. Here I would like to say that my predecessor, who made an announcement and commissioned the Public Procurement Company s.r.o. by administration of project manager myth, I canceled shortly after my arrival at the office. We looked at the documentation of how this contract was to be administered, and we corrected the entire documentation with the fact that the future project manager should have the role of administrator. It should be jointly responsible with the State in defining the conditions of the selection procedure. In accordance with the Public Procurement Act, we therefore had to move the entire term of this procurement procedure from the notice, because we changed the procurement documents and did not want to get into a situation where someone could challenge this documentation. I would like to say that this process went through 4. This year's 9th. The deadline for submitting objections to the procurement documents for the project manager was over and no one objected to the Office for the Protection of Competition. Our documentation was processed perfectly fine. Since 29 August, the evaluation committee has been appointed and it is working and I should have the results completed by mid-October, when the project manager will be selected, which will start defining the terms and conditions for the new operator and toll supplier in the Czech Republic. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u116	Thank you, Minister. There won't be an additional question, so thank you. Next is the selected and winning Mrs Marta Semelová, who interpels the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová on kangaroos. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u117	Madam Minister, my interpelation concerns six kangaroos - in Brno, Dolní Benešov, Hostivice, in Janovice nad Úhlavou, Prague 4 and Prague 10 - which are to be closed at the end of the year, based on the amendment of the Act on Social Protection, which has been in force since January last year. This provides that 28 children can be placed in one home for immediate assistance to children in distress. It is true that these facilities have a larger capacity, but children live here in individual apartments with aunts of three at most. In addition, children are included in the capacity on long-term leave with parents or foster parents. By the end of this year, the MPSV granted these six endangered facilities an exception. The question is, what's next? In general, there are 26 children in the facilities concerned, cared for by 212 employees. Personally, I've been in these few kangaroos to see in some of them. There are beautifully furnished apartments, large gambling rooms, garden, playground. So I'd like to ask if there's any chance of saving them. What will happen to the children and employees and, finally, in the event of their demise, what will happen to the property, the buildings, with the equipment of these buildings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u118	Thank you, Madame and I will ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u119	Hello, Mr President, Members. I would perhaps start a little more generally that kangaroos have existed for a long time and officially belong today to a group of facilities called emergency aid devices. These facilities are not only operated by the Children's Endangered Fund. There are many of them and they are also operated by non-profit organizations, or they are also established by the region or municipalities. I've got a whole list here. [[16.40 hours]] Since the very beginning of its existence, the Fund of Endangered Children actually by the mouth of its principal, or the President, Dr. Vodičková says that they are family-type establishments, that they are small, family-like in those apartments. The doctor has also been fighting these large-capacity children's homes from the very beginning. The amendment to the Social Protection Act tried or tried several things. One of them is the transformation of the very various large-capacity facilities, whether they are baby homes or children's homes, but also those facilities for children requiring immediate assistance. At the same time, this amendment wanted to put certain standards in the care of children, because they are children at risk, children whose fates are very moving, and it is certainly right to give it some clear rules. From these rules, I have to say that the Children's Endangered Fund has always tended to get away with good or bad. Just individual cases, I have to say, are very different, somewhere that I've been watching them for at least ten years, so somewhere I'd put the Fund of Endangered Children on the truth, somewhere I'd give the Social-Legal Protection Authority for the truth. It's just different, and the law that applies, the amendment, since 1 January, has defined several things on the basis of various debates. For example, when it is called an emergency aid device, it is immediate and temporary aid. This also corresponds to a financial contribution that is higher than then to those long-term facilities, which means, if you want, to children's homes. Although these are no longer large-capacity facilities, there are also many of the so-called family types. And it was also said that the child's stay, and it was based on the statistics of the Children At Risk Fund itself, was on average six months. This means that it was legal that immediate assistance was therefore defined by the stay of six months, and at the same time as the next standard it was determined that it was really small facilities, that there would be maximum capacity for 28 children except siblings. But it was originally said in those debates that it should be a real family type - perhaps just ten children. And now all these devices were supposed to be transformed into the law by the end of 2013. The Children At Risk Fund asked for exceptions here for these facilities that I was talking about, received the exceptions - by the end of 2014. And I do, on the one hand, the equipment looks really nice, there are kids, there are employees, on the other hand, we've been here repeatedly, and it's been going on before the amendment of the law, and there are always specialities for the Children At Risk Fund. I remember from the ministry ten years ago that money wasn't always getting there through a classic grant procedure, and then every time the Children At Risk Fund got some extra money, I'd say a less standard way, which I don't think would be possible today. But at the time, it was still possible in accordance with the rules. So the Children At Risk Fund - I'm not questioning their child care right now, but there's really a problem that while all the other organizations are just trying to follow the rules, the fund has always been out of control. And here he actually got two years to turn. In my opinion, if this is such a large facility, I too have been in those Štěrboholís, which are big, so I personally, and I even told Dr. Vodičková sometime in the spring of this year, I think they are actually a children's home of the family type and should transform. I'm sure no one wants them to leave it there and leave it alone, but in my opinion, they should just transform into a children's home.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u120	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, you've spent your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u121	Sorry, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u122	If there's a follow-up question, you'll get another minute to finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u123	Transform - period. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u124	Thank you. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u125	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I wanted to ask how any transformation would take place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u126	Thank you, Madame. Madam Secretary will complete the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u127	Thank you. That's actually up to them, it's a private organization, but it's getting big subsidies from the state, but it's not in the Ministry's hands, it's just their business. Maybe I'd advise them to get out of this situation, but I really repeat, they've had two years, and it's already very unusual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u128	Thank you. Next is Mr Jan Farský, who interpels Minister Jan Mládek. I would like to excuse him at this moment, even if he is present in the Chamber of Deputies, so at this very moment he accepts the delegation of the Republic of Tatarstan and cannot be present. I apologize to him this way. If you do so, Mr. Ambassador, you will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u129	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to ask how the eight billion crowns received by the frequency auction will be used, with the resolution adopted by the government in 2013, that the eight billion plus one billion that will be added this year should be used to support the expansion of the high-speed Internet in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I have not yet seen that this should be done in some way. I would like to intercede with this for supporting the Internet economy and speeding up the introduction of high-speed Internet, because this is an essential part of the competitiveness of every state, and it is no coincidence that where this support is high, whether it is in Europe, significantly in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, these states outperform us significantly from the point of view of competitiveness. Dear Minister, I would therefore like to know whether and how the nine billion crowns from the frequency auction will be used and whether the current government intends to keep the promise of the government of the past and actively support the digital economy and the expansion of the high-speed Internet to Czech and Moravian communities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Birke, who wants to interpel Minister Antonín Prachař, was drawn on the thirty-fourth in the ranking. I don't see the Minister anywhere yet, if that's how you load your interpellation, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. I'm obviously enjoying myself today. The subject is clear - the Road and Motorway Directorate. Well, I have to say, those two minutes are very few. I'd need, like, two hours, maybe two days at the Road and Motorway Directorate. However, to be objective, so that it doesn't look like I picked a target during today's interpellation, and that's the Minister of Transport, that wouldn't be serious, even though some of you feel that way. However, it really isn't. Allow me, however, a few facts I would like to mention here. Stability should have been a strong foreign currency for this government, both in the Chamber of Deputies and, above all, in the various departments. After previous governments and frequent changes at the head of the resort, transport and its subordinate organizations are in alarming condition. This is where I go back to the opening. And it should be noted, perhaps some of you no longer remember it, I would like to read a long platypus of names which or who were the ministers of transport in that fast time sequence: Řebíček, gentlemen Bendl, Slamečka, Bárta, Šmerda, Dobeš, Stanjura and Žák. As mayor of the city, I've seen six of them, and believe me, everyone has had a different priority, and everyone has talked to me differently. And I must say, there are 6,200 mayors in the Czech Republic. On the other hand, I must say that I was very pleased that the YES movement in its personnel proposal brought in a crisis manager. I feel like we have a crisis manager today. And I'm not the only one who feels that way. The problem is that the most key organization is the Road and Motorway Directorate, and there is a fundamental problem when an expert was brought in to stabilise and move road construction forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u132	Ambassador, I'm sorry, I don't like jumping into your speech. You'd really need about two hours to do that, 'cause you've spent two minutes. So if you want to ask a question, ask a question, read it. The Minister has already arrived and then you can ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u133	Thank you very much. I'm sorry because I got carried away. I want to ask the Minister when he plans to establish a full management of the Road and Motorway Directorate and thus enable the organization to function effectively. That's the first question. And the second question is...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u134	Great. The minister will answer you, and then you'll have round two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u135	Mr President, on the issue of ŘSD - a big subject - I would like to say that I have brought in a new team of ŘSD leadership on 1 April this year. And I'm going to repeat what I've said several times - I didn't just choose the CEO, but I chose the management team in the number of six people who started taking steps inside the organization, i.e. analysis of all outstanding invoices, all changes during construction and other things, violations of budgetary discipline and things that we inherited. At the same time, we started working on the preparation of investments, and I think that the part of the preparation of investments is working today, and I think the public is also aware of that. As well as gradually a new person was brought to the site of the operating section. And of course this cannot be done within one day. These guys are working somewhere, these guys have some notice periods, or maybe. Untiring employment with former employers, and we gradually built this team. The results of the team, I think the public sees for example. in the framework of repairs between Průhonice and Chodov, where this section was opened 22 days earlier than originally planned. I would like to say that the person of the Director-General of the Road and Motorway Directorate is a very important person, both inside the organisation, so that the employees know who is in charge of the organization and, on the one hand, the contractors know that they have a partner. Only once have I appointed Mr. Kubiš's Director General of Roads and Motorways. Unfortunately, he resigned after four months and, with all due respect, I may not blame him. At this point, there is a tender for the Director of the Road and Motorway Directorate. We have 28 applicants. The evaluation committee has recommended a narrower selection of four people with whom I am gradually conducting some discussions. I think that this organisation, unlike what was in the past, is stable at the moment and does its tasks, even if it does not have a appointed CEO. Indeed, I will give myself enough time for the CEO, and I will have enough space to choose a person who will fit into the management team and lead the Road and Motorway Directorate not only in the short term, but with a long vision, at least until the end of this government's term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u136	Thank you, Minister. I shall ask the Member for an additional question. You have one minute, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u137	Yes, yes. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, thank you for your indulgence. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's a really big subject, and I really don't envy this organization, believe me. However, let me really ask you one more supplementary question, which I am interested in to some extent, and you know very well that I am interested in it in the long term, and that is your opinion if you have changed it or not, and you insist on it as regards the restructuring of the individual Directorates of the Road and Motorways. I'm guessing from the current 25 reductions to the 8th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u138	Thank you and I will ask the Minister for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u139	I'd like to make it clear that the races are not 25, but only 13. Races The highways and highways are 13 at the moment, and they're all in regional cities. Of course, we have also dealt with this issue, how we will deal with these races under the Directorate-General. And it's no secret that we've dealt with the idea of reducing these races. We talked about what you, Mr President, are most interested in, and this is Hradec Králové and Pardubice, where we have two races of the Road and Motorway Directorate within 20 km. It is and will continue to be important for us that the Road and Motorway Directorate works. For us, it is not important that every regional city will have the Road and Motorway Directorate race. Historically, I discovered that there were only eight races of the Road and Motorway Directorate, and nowhere is it possible that we will not return to this model. At this point, I would like to say that we do not have a clear understanding of which races this will involve and whether some races will be called. reduced to isolated workplaces only. However, we have a vision that we will prepare this by the end of this year, and everything, as well as the organisational scheme of the Directorate-General for Roads and Motorways, has been discussed with the two trade unions concerned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u140	Thank you. I would now ask Mr Petr Bendl for his intervention. Interpels the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, on the European Union's sanctions against Russia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister of Agriculture, I learned from the media that you want to prevent cheap food from reaching the territory of the Czech Republic almost by your own body. I'm a little surprised to say that I'm surprised that we should have a common interest in people buying cheap food. Please do not confuse with the word quality food. I think, Minister, that you should focus above all on this topic and do your utmost to make it worthwhile for farmers to grow food, to behave like cattle so that we are competitive on the agricultural market so that we do not have to subsidize rape, fast-growing trees, etc., but instead focus on the finances and financial support that are coming from Europe, and it is not small resources, precisely in the area of food. This will ensure that food can be cheaper. But if you want to stand at the border and stop the absurd from buying cheap food, that's what I wanted to know today, but obviously I won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another interview, 36th, Mr. Michal Kučera, who interpels the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, was drawn on behalf of the Act on Assistance in Material Needs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u143	Hello again. Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, the housing supplement is a social benefit to help pay the housing costs to those who are unable to pay these costs themselves. However, the amount of the housing supplement paid increases annually. Last year it reached almost 3 billion. Crowns. Mayors of cities and municipalities complain about overpriced hostels where citizens are accommodated, for whom the State pays rent in the form of a housing supplement, where rent is much higher than the rent usual in the municipality. This practice then causes the concentration of sociopathological phenomena in localities that are used in this way. Madam Secretary, why has the employment office so far often paid immensely high housing fees? The physical emergency aid law clearly states that the housing supplement is to be granted up to the usual amount at the place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister to answer this question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u145	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. So first of all, I would like to say that yesterday, at the third reading, we approved an amendment to the Law on material distress, which limits the phenomenon you described in a fundamental way. I'm not gonna say that again. As for what he sets out and doesn't lay down the law directly, here we have to go back and remind ourselves of what happened to those officials and officials who pay these benefits. They were transferred from the municipalities to the employment offices, and I do not think it should have been the labour office's agenda to pay social benefits, especially the benefits of aid in material distress, where social work with those people should be part of the payment. And along the way, so to speak, about 3,000 of them were lost by the transfer. [[17,00 hours]] This means that we are currently trying to iron the situation that arose here after the intervention of Mr. exministr Drábek, and actually the way the labour authorities have been staffed down, and the control, the possibility of actually acting strictly, was very limited. And the question of the price in the usual place is actually written in the law, but then it is very vague as it is now, anchored, how to find out this price and how to proceed accordingly. The other thing is that I have to say that I have average numbers per region here, and there are no flat-rate payments, but in some municipalities, you're right that this is going away. We believe that now, after the authorities have been recruiting 600 people since August and after the amendment that we had here yesterday, which makes it all much more precise and more stringent, this will no longer happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u146	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Will you have an additional question? It's gonna fall. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u147	Thank you for your explanation, Madam Secretary. So I understand that at this point, you're not complying with the law, that you probably don't have personnel equipment for that, as I understand well. However, I would really like to call on you to comply immediately with the law on aid in material distress by the labour office. And if the Bureau has any uneconomical behavior, please draw the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u148	That wasn't a question. Do you want to respond, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u149	Just for a little while. We're checking all of this now, but we're still a little bit early. I do not think that the labour authorities are explicitly breaking the law, because, as I say, this locally usual rent is essentially not fixed anywhere, but, of course, there are now thorough audits of everything that pays locally and how. I must say that, for example, the numbers of checks that those labour offices have been able to do so far have been around 5%. So that's going up now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u150	Thank you. I have two apologies - today, within 18 hours, Mr Jan Sedláček apologizes for business reasons and today, 25. 9. from 17.40 to the end of the sitting day of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jeroným Tejc apologizes for working reasons. We will proceed to another interview and this is my Member, Mrs Věra Kovářová, on behalf of the Minister of the Interior, Milan Chovanec, on matters of electoral delinquency. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u151	Thank you. Dear Minister, the decision to punish one of the attorneys issued by the Czech Bar Association for the Election Attack of Presidential Candidate Karel Schwarzenberg has attracted deserved attention. I remind you that a false ad was printed on this gentleman's order on the first day of the second round of the election of the President of the Republic in Lightning. Probably because it cannot be regarded as a punishment given the amount of sanctions, it is in fact a clear mockery to all citizens, not only to those for whom fair elections are not just phrases. In this context, the idea of introducing so-called electoral offences has emerged, which would allow negotiations that are contrary to the ideas of decent and fair electoral competition. This instrument may seem controversial, but the current solution in the form of a possible nullity of elections, and now I am not just talking about presidential elections, is not optimal. In addition, it is not possible to catch all the negotiations on which there is general consensus. Minister, what is your opinion on the introduction of electoral offences into Czech law? Do you think that they can represent an effective tool of repression against those who abuse today's soft rules? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u152	Thank you, Madame. You will be answered in writing. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, on the question of interpellation to Minister Antonín Prachař, on the toll system, was drawn on the thirty-eightth in the order. It's not here, in which case I'll continue as the order has been drawn. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, who intersects Minister Milan Chovanec in the case of an external legal service contract, was drawn on the 30th. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u153	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, the Health Insurance Company of the Ministry of the Interior is subject to control by the members of the Administrative and Supervisory Board, in which your Ministry has its representatives. As members of the Health Committee, we were informed by letter from the Director of the Health Insurance Office of the Ministry of the Interior about a letter that was sent as an open letter to the employees of the Health Insurance Office of the Ministry of the Interior, in which there were some facts. I would ask you to state, if necessary, in writing, whether the claim which appeared in Mr Jaromír Gajdáček's personal letter to the director of the health insurance company, that all the things described in the letter, that they were dealt with by the administrative and supervisory board of the health insurance undertaking and that everything was well discussed in the Audit Committee. Nevertheless, I would like to focus specifically on communicating whether the contract for external legal services was awarded in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and whether the Minister and the members of the Administrative and Supervisory Board consider the fleet used by the management of the Health Insurance Office of the Ministry of the Interior to be adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u154	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will be answered in writing. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, with an interpellation to Minister Antonín Prachař, was again drawn in fortyth in the order. Unfortunately, I do not see the Member now either. Let's keep going. Forty-first was Mr Michal Kučera. He pulled his interpellation. The 40th second was drawn by Mrs Věra Kovářová, who interpels the Minister of Justice Helena Válková on the responsibility of municipal politicians. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u155	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I have been approached in writing or orally by several mayors and representatives on the unfortunate definition of the legal responsibility they bear in the performance of their duties. The criteria laid down by law are considered by municipal politicians to be contradictory or too abstract, as a result of which they cannot provide clear guidance for their activities. In particular, the area of municipal property management is considered to be problematic. The situation would help to resolve the amendment to the relevant regulations, which would make it clear. After all, for her acceptance yesterday, the Attorney General Pavel Zeman, whose erudition of course I have no doubt. Madam Secretary, do you agree with me that this is a serious problem, which probably needs to be dealt with legislatively in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior? In what way and especially when? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u156	Thank you, Madame. You will be answered in writing. Jan Birke, Mr. Jan Birke, draws this interpelation, and Mr. Jan Birke, Mr. Jan Birke, again with an interview with Minister Antonín Prachař, on the subject of a subliminal contract for ŘSD Prague, has been awarded in the third place. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u157	Thank you. That's my last interview, Minister. It will be very simple and very short. I respond to a newspaper article where we could all read that there are subliminal contracts for ŘSD Prague, which give simplified orders to companies that are located in the same building as the Prague Road and Motorway Directorate and have wine in their names. And last but not least, it's all suspicious. I'd like to hear your opinion as Minister, if that's what you're dealing with and how you're dealing with the situation. And if that's even true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u159	Mr President, I would like to say that, from my position as Minister of Transport, I really cannot oversee the course of all proceedings in hundreds of small contracts, which is simply not possible, which subordinate organisations are entering. However, this does not change the fact that I will not tolerate discriminatory access or proposal for the distribution of public contracts to pre-selected companies in the resort, even in relatively small ones. In addition to internal audit, I have therefore agreed on an exceptional control of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, focusing on this type of contract. The control of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure will take place in the coming days and will not only concern the Prague plant. The subject of the check that we launched 22. 9. selection procedures addressed by the ŘSD are limited number of tenderers, negotiated procedures without publication, small-scale contracts and simplifiedly sublime procedures. The aim of the audit is to examine any doubts as to whether the ŘSD and its commercial staff have acted in accordance with the law and selected their suppliers transparently. The current management of the Prague plant has already changed many processes. I would like to say that the contracts you're talking about, the three contracts for drainage and weed cutting, were concluded and approved by the former management on 15. 6. Eighteen. 6. a new director of the Prague race took part. So this was done three days before the new director of the Prague race started. Two of these contracts have been canceled, and as far as the company's contract with a guilty name is concerned, I will not be able to find it here right now - Malvasier, so it is a company represented by one person who has worked in ŘSD since 1998. I really don't want to see if anyone chooses the name of Malvasier or František Opršálek. We really don't want to explore that. The condition for participation in the demand procedure in this particular contract - it was the construction work of road I/66 Milín - Příbram, the cutting of roads, the repair of drainage - was, among other things, an extract from the Commercial Register, a valid business authorisation, the implementation of construction works over the last three years in the financial volume of at least 2 million crowns. The company that came forward fulfilled all these criteria. I've had the company, which has the same executive, run a background check since 1998. No claims have been made on the company or against the supplier represented by that agent since 1998. I can also show you in my written reply photographs of how this company dealt with this contract. Of course, we will continue to pay attention to any subliminal contracts, especially those very close to the 6 million limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u160	Thank you. There won't be an additional question? [[It's not.]] In that case, we'll proceed to another interpellation. As the 45th was drawn with her intervention by Mrs Věra Kovářová, who interpels the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u161	Thank you for the floor. My secretary and I have agreed to ask that question again, so I apologize to my colleagues for having to hear it one more time. However, repetition is the mother of wisdom. Madam Secretary, several mayors and representatives have already referred to me in writing or orally on the unfortunate definition of the legal responsibility they bear in the performance of their duties. The criteria laid down by law are considered by municipal politicians to be contradictory or too abstract, as a result of which they cannot provide clear guidance for their activities. In particular, the area of municipal property management is considered to be problematic. The situation would help to address an amendment to the relevant regulations, which would make it clear. After all, for her acceptance yesterday, the Attorney General Pavel Zeman, whose erudition of course I have no doubt. Madam Secretary, do you agree with me that this is a serious problem which seems to have to be dealt with legislatively in conjunction with the Ministry of the Interior? In what way and especially when? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u162	Thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologise for joining the answer to those two questions equally formulated in the course of my last speech. But I understand it's the same question or a similar question. So, first of all, in this question, responsibilities have not been defined, whether we are referring to criminal liability or the legal liability of civil civil society, and I myself had to learn in the new Civil Code, how it is actually with responsibility for municipal politicians, or politicians who deal with property. So, on that level, civil really, the current legislation in force is not quite simple, because there is no special definition. Paragraph 20 (a) shall apply. 2 states that legal persons governed by public law are subject to the laws under which they were established. The provisions of this law shall apply only if it is compatible with the legal nature of those persons. And of course, we always consider the village to be such a legal person. The new Civil Code, in its current and effective wording in Section 159 (2), prescribes mandatory diligence to persons who are members of an elected legal entity, with the assumption that a rebuttable presumption provides that negligence must be regarded as a situation where a person who, when taking up his duties, has found that he is unable to do so has not caused consequences to himself. So I believe that the provision of the Civil Code on Legal Persons is, in the light of the provisions of § 20 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It means that the village and the region will also be affected. Assuming, of course, that there is no specific legislation. However, these special legislation prescribe only a certain form of diligence. In order to make this more clear, it can be noted that the breach of the particular diligence and economy in the handling of property may result in a specific special adjustment of liability for the breach of this obligation to the obligation to compensate for injury under the provisions of Section 2910 of the new Civil Code. This is therefore a breach of the legal obligation, not a contractual obligation. The contractual obligation, which is always more stringent, shall apply where the representative or employee of the municipality is elected to the authority of one of the corporations. So as far as the civilian area is concerned, it is not an easy matter, and I believe that when it comes into practice more and there will be more experience in applying the new Civil Code, it will also be easier for municipal politicians. I can only recommend that they deal with the property economically, effectively, knowing that even the special care will be guided if there is suspicion that it has been violated by the provisions of the new Civil Code. So relatively strict and so far quite generally and vaguely formulated provisions. As far as criminal liability is concerned, it's easier there. Local policies are subject to criminal liability under the Criminal Code. We must always prove, when considering criminal liability, all the characteristics of the relevant facts of the offence, including the subjective aspect of the blame. So in the vast majority of cases, this is about proving intent. That intention must be demonstrated by an institution active in criminal proceedings, because local politicians are not in a special position in this regard. Of course, if they perform and if the offence can only be committed if the perpetrator is an official person, then criminal liability is even more severe. [[17.20 hours]] But I don't see any problem here. Rather, I see the problem that those law enforcement authorities dealing with this issue are sometimes not sufficiently aware of the specifics of the activity, the exercise of the function of municipal policy and, perhaps, the increased level of risk they must take in making decisions. And I think it would be appropriate, for example, for prosecutors or judges dealing with this issue in criminal matters to have sufficient information. [[Attention on time.]] Which we can secure within the Justice Academy. For me, this is a question which leads to some consideration as to whether there should be training of prosecutors and judges in the Justice Academy in relation to the specifics of the activity of municipal politicians and their possible criminal liability for certain types of offences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u164	Thank you. Will you have an additional question, Madame?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u165	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, thank you very much for saying that if mayors and representatives are to deal with municipal property efficiently and economically, that is fine. However, the law enforcement authorities often consider effectiveness and economy in a completely different way than when the mayor or the council decides to benefit the community, knowing that sometimes it may not have been effective or economical. That's what I think should be dealt with. Therefore, I regret that the government has issued a negative opinion on our proposal for an amendment to the municipal law, which could very simply solve this problem. However, I hope that there will be enough time in plenary on this subject to clarify our position on this very proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u166	Thank you. Will you respond, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u167	I'm gonna use that option to say my own personal opinion. I think it is necessary to amend all related regulations if this leads to the concreteisation of the responsibilities of representatives at the municipal level. And I am very well aware of the very risks to which the person who is to deal with the property with the increased care and yet has to carry out his tasks, which, among other things, require him to take on a certain risk that it may not always turn out the way he intends when he takes the decision. But that is precisely what the institute, which we have known from criminal law since time immemorial, should defend, and that is proof of intent to damage, uneconomically load, to violate a certain obligation. As for the amendment that you mentioned, Madame, I think it is really necessary to go back to it when discussing a specific law. And I'm probably going to make a personal statement in the debate, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u168	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Before we go any further, I'll read two note cards. Today, Mrs Martina Berdychová apologizes from 17:00 for reasons of work, and from 18:30 to 7:30, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, who was interviewed by Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, was drawn in order - but I do not see Mr Stanjura here. In that case, we will continue to do so, and the last interpellation that Mrs Věra Kovářová again has on Mrs Věra Jourová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u169	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, in Euro magazine, I read an interesting article two weeks ago about the advertising campaign to support tourism and domestic gastronomy, which is organized by CzechTourism. The text provides warning information on how the programme is implemented. According to Euro magazine's findings, nearly CZK 1.5 billion is to be spent in this campaign, in a number of cases inefficiently and unsuccessfully. Of course, an apology is not the fact that it is European funds. Quite the opposite. The situation is really alarming. Some of the restaurants involved in the campaign do not even offer traditional Czech dishes whose promotion should have been the essence of this campaign. Madam Secretary, I am certainly not only interested in who is responsible for these errors and how you intend to remedy them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-004-178.u170	Thank you. As Minister Jourová is not here, you will be answered in writing. And I'm saying that for today's meeting, we've finished discussing oral interventions. And as has been established during the day, we will continue at 18 hours by discussing four points that are firmly placed, and I am interrupting the meeting by 18 o'clock. [[Members from the diaper request to proceed without interruption.]] In that case, I'm going to ask for a four-minute break with the club presidents to agree on a follow-up, because I had information that we would continue at 18 o'clock. I'll ask the club presidents to come to me and we'll make a deal. [[Meeting with club presidents.]] [[17.30 hours]] I'm specifying my statement because I didn't have all the information. On the basis of a meeting with the club presidents, we will continue the negotiations. I will ring the bell and call my colleagues from the lobby, so that all Members will come here, because it has been agreed that the negotiations will continue after the oral intercession.
