ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws /German press 251/ - First Reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor. The rest of you, I dare ask for peace of mind and for the Minister to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly state what is called. a tariff amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, or government bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws. The subject matter of the tariff amendment to the Value Added Tax Act is in accordance with the coalition contract implementation of the so-called second reduced rates of value added tax on medicines, books and irreplaceable child nutrition. The second reduced rate of value added tax is proposed to be 10 per cent. In the context of the introduction of a second reduced rate of value added tax, those provisions of the following laws are hereby repealed, which were intended to align value added tax rates of 17,5 per cent, resulting in no harmonisation of value added tax rates from 1 January 2016. The effectiveness of the rate amendment to the Value Added Tax Act is proposed on 1 January 2015. Finally, I ask you to approve the rate amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, and I note that, in the context of a detailed debate, the deadline for discussing the rate amendment to the Value Added Tax Act in the committees will be reduced to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u3	I thank the Minister and now the rapporteur, Mr Václav Votava, to introduce us to his news report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, my colleagues, allow me to impose my reporting obligations on this press on the Government Bill on Value Added Tax. I think the Minister said it very carefully. So I will limit myself only telegraphically, because I do not want to abuse the position of rapporteur to perform here in general. If so, Mr Vice-President, I would like to report to you. Vice-President won't listen to me. I'm sorry. I therefore report in advance that I would then speak in the general debate so that I do not abuse my position as rapporteur. So in short, the government is submitting this proposal in accordance with the coalition agreement. The aim of the proposed changes is to create the prerequisites for reducing the prices of selected goods and, among other things, to support families with children. The main measures in this bill are the introduction of a second reduced rate of value added tax of 10 per cent for medicines, books and essential child nutrition. The other rates remain. Furthermore, it is the abolition of a uniform rate of value added tax, which should be effective, she pays, but should be effective at 1. 1. 2016 at 17,5 %. They are also partial changes following the introduction of a second reduced rate, legislative technical adjustments in connection with the introduction of a second reduced rate. Part of the law is also Annex 3A, which contains a list of three items of selected commodities: medicines, essential child nutrition, books. The proposed regulation of the VAT Act is fully compatible with the legal acts of the European Union, the case law of the EU judicial authorities and the general principles of European Union law. Special international agreements forming part of the rule of law shall not apply to VAT. As rapporteur, I recommend to refer the bill to second reading and order its discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Okamura, President Fiala, came forward at the same time. President of the Fiala pardone - the higher he takes, the party chairman. So first, Mr Okamura, Mr Fiala, then Mr Votava, the rapporteur, and then President Stanjura, with priority rights, came forward. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the introduction of a third, reduced VAT rate on medicines, books and child food for the Dawn movement. And I'm already saying we'll agree with him. Even though I can't forgive my reservations here. Moreover, every tax rate brings bureaucracy. And not only for the state, but also for companies and businessmen. The truth is that traditionally economically efficient countries, such as Germany and Great Britain, adhere to a maximum of two rates and make strict efforts to simplify tax rules. The ideal and goal for us must be, on the one hand, low taxes, but also simple taxes. Why are we lowering our VAT on drugs? Because we have poor sick pensioners and families with children, as well as a lack of money in health care and tax reductions will help everyone. We also have poor parents and a catastrophic birth rate, which is why we want to support them by reducing the tax on child nutrition. But what can a 5% reduction in VAT to the Sunar do? Theoretical discount of ten crowns per package for 200 crowns. Theoretically, today, as we know, businessmen have announced that they are looking forward to improving their margin. Other businessmen, on the other hand, are terrified of other administrative costs of new rates. Dear government and coalition, if we really want to support anything, let us really support it, not symbolically. And most importantly - and I beg you to do that in the future - in a system way. For example, a basic solution would be, for example, a zero tax not only on medicines, but also on some other basic selected commodities. This means where the state prefers the benefit of the citizen over its profits. Products whose purchases citizens don't want to be punished. Undoubtedly, it should be medications or baby milk or baby diapers, but there should also be diapers for seniors and medicines and possibly other selected commodities. For those of you who are shaking their heads over what Okamura is saying here, I remind you that, although traditionally historically, they have, for example, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Ireland, Malta in the EU. [[16.00 hours]] In this context, so that you don't really twist your head, what Okamura is saying here - why am I stressing this here? I am based not only on ČSSD's pre-election vows, which, as we know today, once again tricked the voters, but so that the ČSSD would not come to me here, so I have even read the quote from Prime Minister Vladimír Špidla, who before the elections, and even has it on his own website, which is really remarkable, I quote Vladimír Špidla, the former Commissioner and chief of advisors of the Prime Minister, who told us before the election: There is a lot to negotiate with rational arguments in the EU, and there should be no problem with negotiating a zero rate on drugs. That's what he said. So now I'm asking the government, "Where are the actions?" Or was it just empty election words? By the way, a zero rate means zero burden for entrepreneurs. So its introduction means saving both the state and the companies. I know - quote: these assholes of ours can't imagine a zero standard VAT rate. But only economic policies that lead to economic growth make sense. Consumption needs to be strengthened. If there's no consumption, there's no production. The crisis spiral is constantly extended by a senseless policy. - Dear colleagues, these are not my words again. This is the statement of an economist, a wise man, an honorary president of the ČSSD and our mutual friend Valtr Komárek. I would move his thesis further away from the fact that the ideal for us is the abolition of VAT. For us in úsvit. And also the replacement of sales taxes, as it is from the US, for example. The simple sales tax rate paid when buying the final consumer, when no deductions are made, is also advantageous for the state budget, because the fraudulent accounting of the wrong lower rate - incorrectly lower rates, and a little easier to carry out checks. I know there may be problems in the EU, but why not have a vision of where we might go together sometime in the future, and of course we have a vision in Dawn. So we always say yes to tax cuts in Dawn. We are also also thinking that non-systemic tax reductions will not lead to further increases in tax collection costs, increased burdens on businesses and businesses, and incentives for fraud. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u7	The next speaker will be Mr Fiala, with priority rights, and the rapporteur after.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, let me say a few words here on a new reduced rate of 10 per cent. Dawn has long called for a reduction in value added tax on drugs, books and child nutrition, so that in our electoral program we have advocated a reduction in value added tax by 1 per cent in both current rates. Even some of you may remember that we have even submitted this bill. We considered this to be a pro-growth economic measure that could increase demand. The point is that we consider the higher value added tax to be one of the key mistakes of the previous government, which de facto stopped economic growth in the Czech Republic for several years. Instead, by the dawn of the proposed pro-growth measure, today's government has chosen to introduce a new rate of value added tax. In this case, therefore, it is not a pro-growth measure, but a social measure. The Dawn Movement is not a socialist movement, but a social movement. It is the responsibility of the government to how much the tax administration will increase for taxpayers and the government, and it is the responsibility of the government to see if they can resolve any tax evasion. And now I repeat - it is not a pro-growth measure, it is a social measure. If the government increases this administration and increases the state budget deficit, this step can be described as a step towards people, but as a step forward and populist. Despite what I said, we will support this step. We will support him for his social aspect and in good faith that the government is aware of the risks that I have already mentioned and can address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u9	Yes. The next in line is Mr Votava, who is the rapporteur for this press. Please, you have the floor. Mr Stanjura will be prepared, also with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, on the one hand, I am glad that Dawn will support this amendment to the VAT Act, although I think Mr Okamura, as he said here, may not be worth 200 crowns for packing Sunara, but I think that 200 crowns may not be any money for you, but for some young family, it is quite a lot of money. And the crown to the crown - that's it. I think it is a good thing that the government is fulfilling its obligations to the coalition treaty, and this is one example, thus helping families with children, seniors and all those who have been harmed by the unfair decision of the Nečasův government, I am constantly reminding you of this. They will, of course, also support the reduction in the rate for books and the area of education and education. It was the government of ODS and TOP 09, which, in the name of some kind of cutting-off asocial policy, has also increased value added tax, regardless of the effects it will have on families and low-income groups of residents, to seniors, so I could continue. Remember how the reduced VAT rate increased from 5% to 9, then to 10, then to 14, then to 15, and from 1. 1. 2016 was even expected to increase to 17,5 % as it should be introduced, an effective uniform tax of 17,5 % should be effective. So it's a huge leap from a reduced 5% which was, and I'm sure I'm not wrong about that, under the rule of social democracy, up to 17.5 percent. And we have always rejected such experiments on value added tax, and we have also rejected such experiments on the people of this country. That's not a phrase. That's what we've always said, and I think it's absolutely appropriate. One of the measures of this law, of course, is the abolition of the same uniform rate of 17,5 per cent, which should therefore have been in force since 2016. Indeed, this would continue to move the tax burden to the low-income population, the tax burden, from the richer groups, of course, to the lower ones. And I think that there has to be solidarity here and that we have to do everything we can to ensure that the social differences in society do not open up and that social reconciliation in society is not disrupted. Of course, as I said before, if we accepted that unified tax of 17.5 percent, it would have a major impact on the cost of living needs of most of our citizens - food prices, medicines, housing, heat, social services, transport, so I could continue. Of course, with the impact on the budgets of the families, the wallets and the seniors, everyone's wallets. Moreover, the unification of VAT would certainly also affect the segment, which today is quite under pressure, and that is construction, certainly, and it is also agricultural primary production, tourism services etc. It would also have an impact on the regions, the management of regions, municipalities, etc. etc. [[16.10 hours]] Finally, the government comes with the introduction of a second reduced VAT rate on medicines, books and essential child nutrition, at a rate of 10 per cent. The second rate reduced should start to apply from 1. 1. 2015 and I believe that this proposal will pass through the House, that it will apply and that it will be reflected, of course, in the prices of these individual commodities, especially for medicines that are a very sensitive commodity especially for our seniors, but not just for our seniors. And I think that in conjunction with the cancellation of the fee in pharmacies, with the cancellation of the medical fee all the more effective for our elderly, but also families with children will have. There is often criticism - the third rate, it will be administratively demanding, it is something unusual. On the contrary. I think that if you look to other countries west of us, many countries have three rates of value added tax, reduced rates, and three reduced rates of value added tax. The Ir even have four such rates. This therefore does not contradict any EU directive. It's no exception. Also, the argument that the administrative burden of applying this rate will increase and there will be some scope for tax evasion. It always opens with every measure, of course. Proper control and proper fight against tax evasion are needed. That is also what the coalition wants to focus on, and it has also declared the fight against tax evasion in its programming declaration. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, the government has therefore tabled a draft amendment to the law, which, unlike previous right-wing governments, does not increase the VAT rate, abolishes the single rate of 17,5 per cent, which was enforced by the previous Nečasův government and should have been in force since 2016. On the contrary - and once again, I repeat - it introduces a second reduced rate to medicines, books, essential child nutrition. It is therefore a measure that should be - and I believe that it will also be reflected in the budgets of families with children, in the wallets of our seniors, in the wallets of our citizens, significantly, as I have also said, at the time of the cancellation of the doctor's fee, the fees for the prescription in pharmacies, but also after the increase of the income tax discount on the second and third children in working parents, or the refund of the discount to our working pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u11	Before Mr Stanjura comes forward, there is a factual remark from Mr Okamura, to whom I will give two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u12	Hurry up. I spoke in my speech about the sum of CZK 200 per Sunar. So the discount would be about ten crowns. So I'm sorry, but I'm surprised at the chairman of the budget committee that he's confusing the overall price with the discount. That's one possibility. Or the second option is that you don't even know how much it costs to pack Sunar. Now I've been looking into it online, and it's worth 200 crowns. So that the government coalition wouldn't even know what it's proposing - a discount on child nutrition when it says that Okamur doesn't have a large discount of CZK 200. I was not talking about the discount of 200 crowns, the Sunar costs 200 crowns and the discount would therefore be in the order of several crowns. I am really concerned that either the chairman of the budget committee confuses the overall price with the discount, or he doesn't even know what you're proposing when the Sunar costs CZK 200 itself. Or maybe you already have big kids. Either way, it's weird. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u13	Another factual point, Mrs Hnyková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u14	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Mr Votava, through Mr President, Members of the Úsvit movement know what any contribution to their budget means to ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u15	In fact, Mr. Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u16	I don't want to delay it, thank you. If I misunderstand, my colleague, I apologize. I have big kids, so I don't buy Sunar anymore. I apologize for saying it wrong, for not understanding you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u17	That was the last point of fact. Mr Stanjura has the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u18	Thank you for the floor. I took a tablet so I could quote exactly from the explanatory note, so don't take it that these are my numbers or my opinions. To what the rapporteur said, I really must stand up for President Okamura, because if there were to be a discount of CZK 200, imagine how much that Sunar would cost. If there is a discount of 4 percent VAT, a reduction of 5 percent VAT is CZK 200, so let's say how much VAT is. But that's not the point. I think the Minister of Finance often admits that the introduction of the third rate is not the happiest step. I agree with that. And that it will bring it especially to those who have the software today, that's also true. [[unintelligible]] The change in rate is simple for users in the accounting system. [[unintelligible]] We can say if it's right or wrong. This way they'll all have to update their software and have three rates. That's just the fact that this... I think that, in the budgetary committee, we will propose a number of measures that could meet the objectives of the government coalition, while at the same time preventing the second reduced rate or the overall third rate. Just the numbers that are in the explanatory statement, and I have no reason not to believe them. The estimated reduction or estimated impact on the state budget and public budgets in total for medicines is about three billion per year. We who sat here in the last parliamentary term heard the numbers often on the microphone. Those of you who haven't been here, try looking at the tapestry. In particular, the opposition of the then, today's government ČSSD, spoke of much higher impacts than three billion per year. And I don't know which number is right. Here the medical community spoke - four percentage points decreased in 2013 - about five billion for hospitals. And there wasn't just talk about hospitals, there was talk about the segment as a whole. For an increase of another one percent, there was talk of another two billion. And all of a sudden, when I look back, I'm not criticizing it, so the estimate of the impact on the state budget is much lower. I believe that the estimates at the time were exaggerated, the increased costs, that this figure is closer to the reality that is mentioned in the explanatory report than the estimates at the time, which said how and how much will increase the rate especially for hospitals. I'm sure I'm ready to give... the sums that fell here during the debate on the budget committee or at second reading. Now I will return to that not very happy and for some of us who voted in favour of this, not to a simple coalition decision when we last increased VAT by one percentage point at a basic reduced rate. The main reason we gave was the introduction and launch of the second pillar. The government and the opposition then argued about the impact it would have on the state budget - the introduction of the second pillar. The government estimated about six billion, ČSSD and trade unions over twenty billion a year, which means a loss of income in particular on the chapter of social insurance. We don't have to argue anymore. We have real numbers. The impact for 2013 was less than one billion. Not six, not twenty. We've been having a debate here about what's going to do with the state budget revenue by raising both the basic and the reduced rate by one percentage point. Many of the Social Democrats have said, on the first day we will be in government, we will propose to return it to 20 and 14. And most of all, they told us -- even if you raise the rate, that's all they're gonna pick. Some of us argued that we wanted to cover the six billion. We've been judged again by the numbers. When you look at the transactions - development, taxes, VAT for 2013, the taxpayers paid 30 billion more in total. Of which 70 per cent ended up in the state budget and around 30 per cent in public budgets. I speak compared to 2013 and 2012. So let's compare the two numbers-- the decline in income, the introduction of the second pillar, and now I'm not defending it, or I don't want to lead a controversy about whether it's a good thing or a bad thing. Less than one billion and a contribution on the VAT side to the public budget of 30 billion. Of this, I say about 70 percent to the state budget, 30 regions and municipalities. I don't want to guess this year, we have six months' worth of VAT numbers, so I don't think there's any indication that the selection was lower than last year. I don't want to speculate whether the VAT collection for 2014 will be how many billions higher than in 2013. That's what we'll say in January next year. But there's no indication it was lower than last year. So when we calculate the two tax periods of 2013 and 2014, this measure brought at least 60 billion into public budgets, I say 70 percent to the state and the rest to the regions and municipalities. And the blackout on the second pillar, when it was less than a billion last year, it's also going to be less than a billion this year. I think there's room for the basic rate to go down if we compare the numbers that the space still exists, and we're going to propose it. And we're going to ask those who criticized here and said it was completely wrong and suggested it first, why they're not suggesting it today. [[16.20 hours]] I think there are several options. We can maintain two rates, lower rates, all commodities, or, and we will definitely propose that we have a uniform rate, and that our proposal will not be 17.5 percent, will be lower. So this debate is gonna be interesting. I just wanted to document the figures and ask the Ministry of Health for the debate in the Committee on Budgets, so that we could see exactly what the implications of the plus 4 increase were, plus 1, and why, on the contrary, the estimated impacts are so different in favour of the health sector and in favour of the state budget. And it's true that especially in that sector of hospitals, and especially public hospitals, most of which are, it's a little bit of a rollover from one pocket to another. We will save hospitals, both public and state-owned, on the other hand, the state itself will pay less for this VAT. So maybe there's some interesting information about how much of this total volume of VAT in health care will be paid by public hospitals. I don't know if we can get statistics like this, if the Treasury can do it, or if they can't. It would be interesting in the debate and in the future about VAT in health care at all. And he doesn't give me a quote, I think it's always good when somehow Sir Humphrey smuggles something funny into the reason message, it happens to every government, and I think it's kind of funny. We have introduced with such great glory, but I do not know which government, whether it was already Paroubkův or Topolánkův or Nečasův, the so-called RIA evaluation that it is it, that everything will be objectively evaluated there and that is how it is immediately known whether the proposal is good or bad. So here's Chapter 8 that evaluates the impacts, and then there's the final comparison and the choice of variants. That's why I took the tablet so I wouldn't completely confuse it, because that's exactly how it works independent of politicians, virtually. To politicians who conform to the state administration... [[He's looking for a tablet.]] 8.4 - hold on a second, luckily I don't have a de facto, so I have more time... Evaluation of variants and selection of the most appropriate solution. Evaluation of variant 0 - it is always like that we do nothing to make it that official, any government, any ministry - in the case of leaving the existing wording of the Act on value added tax the coalition contract between the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU will not be fulfilled for the election period 2013 to 2017. [[unintelligible]] This option does not lead to a defined objective, therefore it cannot be more favourable than variant 1. Evaluation of variant 1. Variant 1 brings amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, resulting mainly from the coalition contract between the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU movement for the election period 2013 to 2017. Choosing the most suitable solution. Since the aim of this amendment is to fulfil the coalition contract, only option 1 is taken into account by the adoption of the amended provisions. I think that's exactly how Sir Humphrey and his subordinates are playing with all of us, because it's very clear that the government's proposals are based on the government's programming statement and are trying to fulfill their coalition agreed rule. And it doesn't have to be written to us by officials who, like I really do, say in a friendly way to that government: if we don't do it by the government, it's wrong, and if we do it by the government, it's a good thing. Well, what else do these authorities have to say besides that? So it's more for fun, I'm not criticizing it, it's just that it's completely useless sentences, I don't know if we're paying someone, it's called a RIA evaluation, and I admit that it's true for the government that fulfilling the government's statement is a better option than not fulfilling the government's programming statement. I just don't know if we need any more officials.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u19	I have two factual points here. The first in fact will be Mr Votava, the second in fact Mr Opálka. Mr Votava withdraws. Before I turn to Mr Opálka's microphone, I will read the apology of the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek, who apologizes from 6 a.m. and also from 6 p.m. the Minister of Interior Chovanec apologizes as well. Now a factual point for Mr Opálka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to say that we are talking about three VAT rates, but we already have three rates and we have them for a long time. It's a zero rate. And there's no talk of that. If you go to the store and buy a beer, the bottle is VAT-free, and when you go to the jewelry store, you buy a ring, you pay the basic rate, and when you buy an investment gold brick, you get it at zero VAT rate. And we're talking about how much the Sunar rate is going to be, but we're selling investment gold without tax. I'm asking when it's gonna be like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u21	A point of fact for Mr Lobkowicz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u22	Mr President, fellow Members, I am already a grandfather, I have six grandchildren. I know my grandchildren don't drink Sunar, they're breast-fed. They also accept immunity with breast milk. I think that's the best that can be. There are women who have much more milk and then breast-feed even neighbors' children. Then it's completely VAT-free - or what if a wet nurse sells her milk and she's some other kid? [[Laughs in the hall.]] I think there should also be some small VAT, or at least food for that woman should be cheaper, because in order for her to have enough milk, she has to eat and drink a lot. It's just a little question to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u23	No one wants to react further, so we return to the order as shown on the board. This means that Mr Dolejš Jiří will now speak properly in the debate and Mr František Laudát will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dolejš Jiří, which means it is time for the opinion of the club KSČM. I think I'll start by saying two basic thoughts. It is perhaps the first time that we want to reduce value added tax here. I'm going to leave out a small reduction that didn't last long, which I believe was in 2003, when we reduced the base rate from 23 to 19 percent at the time. We've got it somewhere else today. So it is a direction that is interesting because it is generally about tax reductions, it is interesting for the left that it is about reducing indirect taxes, but it also has to be said that it is likable that the single VAT rate is being abolished - it will probably be less like that on the right, where they had one time of uniform tax icon - because different rates in most Europe objectively fulfil social functions. I have to say, and I oppose my colleague Votav a little bit, that is not so widespread as two rates. I looked into the overview when he said it, and I turned to France and Luxembourg in addition to Ireland. So it's three out of 28. So three is just a little extra, and now I'm not talking about what my colleague Opálka was talking about, which means there are exceptions. It would be nice if the government - when we have a clear European Commissioner, when diplomatic dorms are set out in the direction of Brussels, etc. - she worked more actively on the idea of a super-low rate, if that's really so easy to negotiate. I'm afraid it won't be that easy, because those exceptions have historically been negotiated at certain times, and now those times aren't so much inclined, but it's also a political priority for us, and they would certainly be pleased not only for our voters if the government were to put its foot in it. But we don't have that in front of us right now. This is a matter of negotiating with the Brussels administration to amend the annex to the relevant European Union tax directive. We are now ahead of the idea of reducing VAT and of introducing a second reduced rate. [[16.30 hours]] Here I would stop at one moment, which I did not find in my explanatory report very deeply documented, although there is a massive RIA, which explains to us that if it doesn't rain, we won't get wet, on many pages, but the effect, i.e. that by reducing taxes we will achieve price reductions, and that is a joy for the final consumer, and if we don't do that, the joy is at least half, because the money will fall out of the state register, but the prices will not change, so somewhere the money has to stay, so a more thorough analysis of this is a little lacking. I've heard media pharmacists calculate that drugs, and they probably mean drugs on sale, i.e. not paid through a health insurance company, that they could jump by the appropriate percentage, but it's also true that a substantial part of the medications, and it would be nice if there were more order in this than it is so far, so those are covered by a health insurance company and it's a bit related to a payment decree. So the effect may not be that big on our sick and the doctor walking, but also thanks for him. What about this proposal, when we support it in the basic mental contours, is that I, I think it was before lunch, announced a change. I called it because not only does the third rate seem like a bit of an administrative complication to us, I would also agree, but it is a shallow measure that we can afford more important measures in the current situation of the economy. After all, there were times when coalition structures even discussed this. I feel like at the very beginning, you were talking about not 10%, but 5%, of the reduced rate. You ended up in ten because you obviously wanted to minimize the effects of this law. I understand that. But to overstep, I'm looking to see if Mr. Kalousek is here when we were talking about income tax, so he started reciting the convergence program. How the government plans to increase the collection of one or the tax title. I warned him that not everything goes to the credit of a specific tax adjustment, that it can be in the account for example. economic growth. And when I look at it, you have to refresh it, you don't remember everything as 100%, so VAT for 2016 is proposed as a discretion measure by an increase in yield of 16 billion. Discretionary, that's such an ugly word, so I'm translating into Czech, which means it's a one-time thing, it's not gonna fall like a mana sky just all the time and all the time. So it seems that it is not clear in this, because the explanatory report of the law talks about the effect on the state budget, because there is also a allocation to territorial budgets, to three billion, so obviously it will be a measure in the area of better tax collection. VAT is famous in this respect, certain measures have been taken, let's say that this effect will be here, so apart from economic growth there will be a better choice. So we're up by three billion for 2015, 16 billion for 2016. Only discreetly, with growth it should be even more. So there's room. And considering all of this, including the fact that we have announced that we would still dare to make a slight progress on personal income tax, it is clear to us that we can do one thing, and that is a much simpler measure to return to 2011 when it comes to setting rates. We don't have to have a reserve for pension reform, that's what has been said here, this year's opt-out blackout is half a billion, for next year's estimated three quarters of a billion, we'll get better tax collection, so at least it was promised, and even if better tax collection doesn't immediately lead to the elimination of all underpayments and tax crimes, so it should be improved, so here's just a pillow. When we were thinking about it, basically reducing the reduced rate from 15 to 10 percent, and we're willing to talk about the extent of the table of the annex, which is annexed to the law and which defines all the items that are here, so the tax blackout could be, if I'm very skeptical, about five times bigger than planned in this explanatory memorandum. So five times three billion, we're at 15 billion. It's still going fiscally neutral if we take the steps that the government promises and, on the one hand, we demand income taxes. So that is our consideration, that is, of being helpful to this tax proposal and of this amendment at second reading, because we think that it has logic. If such a measure were to be taken, I would venture to estimate that a number of items could be reflected in a relatively interesting way in more than three of these legal or proposed items of the book of nutrition and medicines, and that it would therefore be far more pronounced for citizens, and then we would not only talk about social effects freely, but they would be really tangible and the joy in the backyard could be multiple. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u25	Mr František Laudát, who is also the last member of the debate, is now on the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets for finally saying it in full. Fight. That's what's going on here. You're just confirming what I've been reluctant to believe in in my worst dreams, but you're a wild left who doesn't know what she's doing. Fight. First we complicate the tax system, and then we fight tax evasion. We, who are older and remember, when Šemík was still a colt, we know how the communists fought for the grain, that was the noise every summer. Instead of harvesting the grain, they fought for the grain when it ended with the food program. To your own bill. I'm not a super-tax expert or I'm not playing him, but it didn't say anything about what was going on. I believe that by approving this, we will deprive people of the fact that the regulation in force and effective since 1 January 2015 has been in place for more than a year to reduce the tax quota to citizens, so it will be gone. About your own three rates. I simply do not consider it such a fundamental problem that it will be administratively demanding, even the Deputy Secretary has somehow put together estimates of what will cost papers and the introduction of the third rate on my question. Even if it's big millions for someone, it's not an enormous amount in that context, but what I think is important - I don't know if the Treasury has had any analysis of how the relevant sellers, service providers, commodities have actually behaved, where the tax rate has just been reduced. But I've been asking around economists. Also, from the ones I asked for, no one told me that he would have a comprehensive overview, but they all said specific examples from the world that where the reduction, similar reductions, occurred, so the sellers kept it, so that the price changes towards the groups you want to help did not show up. Basically, I've been told, or I've been warned, that there are usually two cases. Firstly, the seller or the seller retains an increased margin of reduced VAT, a second group of cases that for a short period of time there has actually been a price decrease and then it has returned to its original value, i.e. After a short time, it jumped back and kept the margin again. If you really want to help me in a clean way, in a clean way and in a more efficient way, e.g. families with children, so it would be cleaner to increase their doses and send the money directly to the address. There is a great probability that it will not be abused, you still send them benefits, so they would just add some money, and not here crooked and complicated the VAT collection. Of course, you've admitted it here, you prefer to be paid for by everyone before the free choice, i.e. strengthening direct taxes before indirect taxes. And that said here, it's your principle, you're restricting the right of every citizen's choice to deal with their money. I hope we understand each other on this. [[16.40 hours]] Of course, I do not agree with this bill. I know we're gonna lose this, but I'm making a motion to dismiss the law at first reading. And I am truly sorry, it is legitimate for social democracy to come up with such proposals when it criticized, it has already been said here, dramatically as the horror that we are increasing taxes at a time when it flowed through a hole in the Czech economy. So there's nothing stopping you from turning this place into a second reading rate and putting it back where you wanted it to be. I wonder if you'll do it. You don't even do that in a government proposal yet. I am sorry about the ANO movement that wants to present itself to the public as the right-wing party. Please, this is proof that no way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u27	Mr Votava has the floor now. Mr. Fiedler will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will no longer respond to Mr Laudát and evaluate his contribution. I wanted to propose a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions by 10 days, which means 50 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u29	For 50 days?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u30	Ten days, that means 50 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u31	Yes, I heard it wrong. Thank you. Member Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u32	Good afternoon again. There have been a lot of comments and suggestions in this debate today. I would have responded to what was said here today, I think it was the morning before the afternoon break, when Minister Babiš himself mentioned the possibility that the government, or the Ministry of Finance, is considering or analysing the possibility of not three rates, but perhaps going to two rates reduced - 10, 20 percent, if I correctly registered it. Colleagues have already said that. Why don't we really consider in the House when we discuss this law, whether, as you say, you can guarantee that this is the point of the government coalition, that this is one of the points of the programming declaration, which is likely to insist on social democracy? And I think the minister himself said it wasn't so much his vision, but that you were pushed into it by your coalition contract. I also find the third rate unnecessary. It was mentioned here that only two European Union countries have three VAT rates. So I still know about Poland, where the rates are 8 percent lowest, 23 percent highest, and I think the middle one is 12 or 15 percent. Now I'm not sure. I am glad that the Minister will respond to this, that he will speak, I see. [[The Minister shall report to the President with a request for a word.]] So he'd say his thing. We in the Dawn movement will certainly support this proposal, as we have already announced, and we will not reject it or vote against it. But the three rates really seem pointless, and when it was said that it was being analysed, it considered going back to the original rates. And I'm glad the Minister here will respond and give an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u33	Yes, the Minister will certainly respond because he is enrolled in the debate. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u34	Thank you, Mr President. We are in negotiations, of course I say my opinion or the opinion of the movement, it would certainly be good and important that the reduction in VAT should be reflected in the prices of medicines, books and child nutrition. But I'm a little worried it won't happen. And we were discussing how to arrange it and make sure that the discount goes to the citizens. The fact that the third rate is not, as I suppose, systemically well, we know that, however, I have expressed some idea that we have one of the highest reduced rates in Europe, 15%. It's just my imagination, some kind of target. I didn't discuss it in the coalition. But if the Chorvat have introduced the model, I think they've reduced the rate from 25 percent to 10, even very dramatically to compensate for some business regulations. So let's see how our budget and our revenue and the measures we want to take are going to evolve. If we feel like we could lower the rate from 15 to 10 again, and we would only have two rates again, that would be an ideal condition. We'll see that sometime in 2016, if we're still here, and we'll deal with it in the context of the Croatian model. But it would certainly be ideal, and it might help to simplify overall, because the three or four rates, as my colleague said, are actually not an ideal condition. But those are just my fantasies. It's not discussed within the coalition. Then think of it as private considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u35	Volný Kučera and then Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to make a comment to my colleague Laudát, when he was slumbering and thinking, rattling, surely he doesn't sleep because of that, whether YES is a right or a left side. I think that, above all, you have made a mess for all citizens and politicians in Europe, whether the right and the left, and how the right and left behave in relation to taxes. So please, keep it. We said: we insist that we do not increase taxes, and we do everything we can to keep the state budget to a reasonable extent without being forced to substantially increase taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u37	Now, Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u38	Thank you for the floor. I therefore admire the admiration of Minister Babiš for Croatia. And it's a beautiful country, I'll give you that. I would like to ask you one question, Minister. You said or said you knew the third VAT rate wasn't correct. Then can you explain why you're introducing her?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u39	Mr. Laudát, then Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'm more interested, the minister here said he'd try to make promises come true. It is unclear to me how, for example, you make books make them really cheaper and not keep the margin in a market economy. Maybe you'll come up with another fight. I don't know. The only thing I can imagine where the real benefit to consumers will be reflected in the regulated prices for a part of the drugs. I don't know exactly how it is, I'm not exactly an expert on health care payments. As far as drug policy is concerned, I've never understood the fights and the moves, the payment orders, where they belong, which don't belong, where they go. But there I can imagine that if it's fixed, it's just going to lower the VAT. If there's any backup, part of the price, that's where it's gonna go down. Not for the others. And I'm kind of wondering if the Treasury was doing some analysis in the countries where they put it, in some wider spectrum, what were the real impacts, whether immediate or discount. Maybe if someone jumps from 25 to 10, there's something there. There have been huge fights in the past to reduce excise duty on fuel when it jumped dramatically. And that's when the economists and the Treasury were coming along with the analysis that it wouldn't be reflected in the price, but only the vendors would keep the margin and lose some of the money. There's been a lot of controversy here. In the last case, it was "zero from zero will die." But it certainly wouldn't have been consumers. And I hope I won't even respond to what has been said here by my fellow Member, Mr Volný. You know what, you don't raise. But that's what you did when it says you're not raising taxes. [[Attention on time.]] You're increasing them by the laws in force today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u41	Thank you. Mr Černoch's apologies from 17 to 20 o'clock. With a point of fact, Mr. Secretary, or a proper one? We'll take it as a proper application, and I won't limit your time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I do not understand what Mr Laudát is still talking about, Mr President, through you. I don't know, we don't raise taxes, we lower VAT. I'm not an expert on medicine, I'm aware that drugs are supposed to be very cheap in our country, and our big problem, but I think the Minister of Health might say that there are reports. How do you keep an eye on it, who's gonna keep an eye on it? I'm the one who expressed concern about it. And that's it. As political newcomers, we have learned compromises, especially I have learned compromises, and we have found that our coalition partner ČSSD, we will be glad to see it at the prices of drugs, and we have simply arranged it this way within the coalition. That I'm saying today that my personal target, and now I'm not going to demagogically yell that TOP 09 and ODS increased the VAT rate from 10 to 15 percent with VV. You raised it. I don't know what you're talking about. We don't raise taxes. Our country's probably unlucky that if anyone was talking about Valtr Komárek, I wasn't here when the revolution was, so I asked him how it was with Lucerna and Havel and Klaus. Too bad we didn't go back then to ask how they built capitalism next to us. It's not even far. We go to ask questions because the Slovák introduced the electronic VAT statement from 1 January 2014 and there are specific examples of how it works, and we, of course, have some birthing pains, and we learn and go there to consult and learn. We want to introduce it, and it's effective. And that's why the Croatian model, the original information I got, is that it reportedly reduced VAT from 25 to 10 percent and raised the same money. If I take it over average, they've chosen over 100 percent. Now I'm going to come and ask them and we're going to deal with it, and then we can do the math, and I'm sure if we can get that rate back because Mr Laudát -- again, you've raised taxes, you're saying you're right. You've raised taxes, and we want to reduce them. We're cutting them down tonight, too. So please don't talk about us raising anything anymore. We're not raising anything. Neither for legal persons nor for natural persons. The opposite is true. I'd like that if we could finally figure it out. Of course, it can be documented on numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u43	Mr Laudát has a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u44	Thank you for the floor. I don't think the first part that was here was answered if the Ministry of Finance had any analysis as to whether the price would actually fall by reducing VAT, maybe with the exception of drugs. If the material had been done precisely, there would still have been a precise RIA, there would have been consequences. The impact not only on the state, there could also be impacts on the population. I guess that was pretty clear. Reductions from 15 to 10 cheaper things. What room for speculation I'm adding, I think it's also clear, because suddenly it will definitely start where to be a child's diet, the delicacies will turn into a child's diet. How will it be guarded? Where does the book end and a tabloid start or something? Maybe we'll see some art porn again, I don't know, but apparently the D.O.D. has it all figured out. And the second question was: Today there is a law that is valid and is to be effective from 1 January 2015. The law in force, which will be effective in a few months, would reduce the tax quota in a little bit. What did I ask you? With this novel, it kills, which means it stays at the current level. That was the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u45	The Minister and Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek apologizes from 5 o'clock, which is a change in the apology. The Minister of Health is reporting for the debate and therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely in fact asking the question that has been raised repeatedly here regarding the impact of the VAT reduction on medicines. I'm not exactly a mathematician to tell you exactly what the formula looks like, but I can confirm that all the medicines covered by public health insurance are part of the determination of the remuneration and the VAT rate, so also in the administrative decision that those manufacturers, respectively. Drug importers have it, it's contained. So when VAT is reduced, there will automatically be a reduction in the remuneration from public health insurance, so this reduction will automatically manifest itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-005-011.u47	I don't see anyone else in the debate anymore. We would end the debate and ask whether the appellant or the appellant's representative, if any. The rapporteur wants final words. It's not like that. We'll have to deal with the proposals. I'm just going to ask the rapporteur to follow me because I was taking the lead during the point. The motion to return to work didn't fall, the motion to refuse. Ambassador Holík reporting? No. This is a mistake. The motion for rejection has been rejected, and the proposal has also been made that the time limit for committee discussions should be reduced by 10 days. I'll ring the bell and call my colleagues to the O.R. The first thing we're gonna have to figure out is a motion to dismiss. He has spoken, if I am not mistaken, Mr Laudát. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that this bill should be rejected at first reading. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 27, registered 151, for 22, against 102. This proposal was not adopted. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees. I proposed by my decision to order the motion to discuss the committee to the budgetary authority. I'll ask if there's another suggestion on the commandment. It's not like that. We will therefore only vote on the commandment of the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with the commandment of this committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 28, registered is 151, for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. We must now decide to shorten the time limit for committee discussions. The proposal is to shorten by 10 days. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the shortening, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 29, registered is 151, for 133, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this press has been ordered by the Committee on Budgets and the deadline has been reduced by 10 days. I'm done discussing item 11. [[17,00 hours]] Opening point
