ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-002-008.u1	8. Government draft law on the powers of the institutions Customs administration of the Czech Republic in connection with the enforcement of intellectual property rights / House printing 267/ - second reading I'm begging you to calm down. Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Mr Vice-President, please take the floor. And please, the sněmovna... Mr Vice-President, hold on, I really ask my colleagues to keep their voices down and possibly go to the lobby to deal with their affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-002-008.u2	I don't mind, Madam President, I'll read it. Let me briefly state the draft law on the jurisdiction of the customs authorities of the Czech Republic in connection with the enforcement of intellectual property rights. The bill is a response to the approval of the European Union regulation, which brings about a new regulation to combat goods that violate intellectual property rights, or so-called. Forgery. They aim at goods placed under customs control, i.e. goods crossing the external border of the European Union. In doing so, the regulation assumes that the fight against counterfeits will be carried out by the customs authorities of the Member States which will adopt follow-up legislation in this context. This should become the proposed law. Under the regulation of the European Regulation, the customs authorities are responsible for combating counterfeits carried out in conjunction with holders of intellectual property rights whose interests are thus protected. [[16.00 hours]] Thus, the customs authorities primarily exercise this competence only upon request of a particular right-holder, which must subsequently conduct a private court proceedings against an entity which has infringed intellectual property law. If specific goods violate intellectual property rights, the court shall decide definitively. As I have already said, European legislation is only applicable to goods under customs control. However, the authorities of the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic exercise their powers in the fight against counterfeits and in the internal market within the Czech Republic. The proposed bill therefore takes over European legislation also for a national area which would not otherwise have been affected. The customs authorities will thus follow similar principles in the procedure against goods on the national market in relation to goods under customs control, in particular the principle of cooperation with the holders of intellectual property rights. Similar legislation already works, for example. in Slovakia. The proposed legislation will, first of all, make the fight against counterfeits more effective. Increased protection will be given to holders of intellectual property rights who will thus be able to develop their business innovation activities without fear of unfair competition and distortion of the market by violators of those rights. The current effect will also be the protection of consumers who will be better protected against counterfeits by the proposed treatment. From the point of view of the State, there will also be a strengthening of the fight against tax evasion, which is generally linked to the counterfeit market. This draft law was discussed at first reading on 24 October 2014 and ordered to discuss the budgetary committee. At the same time, the deadline for discussing the proposal in the committees was shortened to 30 days. The Committee on Budgets recommended that: The Chamber of Deputies approved this government bill without comment. Finally, I would like to ask you to discuss and support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-002-008.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš and I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The committee resolution was delivered as the House of the Press 267/1. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Holeček, to take the floor. I'm gonna ask him for a little more time and try to get attention for his intelligence report. Ladies and gentlemen, a discussion on a subject other than the second reading of the Intellectual Property Law, please move to the machine guns. But I'm serious. The President of the House set an example; colleague Schwarz is not setting an example; other colleagues are not setting an example; therefore, I ask the House for peace. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-002-008.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for his re-enactment in the second reading of the law under House press number 267. I can confirm and introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which has properly discussed this law and this House press. We have here the resolution number 132 of the budget committee of the 13th meeting of 2 October 2014 on the Government Bill on the responsibilities of the authorities of the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic in connection with the enforcement of intellectual property rights. After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Hornochová, the report by Mr Jiří Holeček, and after the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament recommends, first, that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's draft law on the jurisdiction of the authorities of the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic in connection with the enforcement of intellectual property rights, the House press 267, approve without comment, second, empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-002-008.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I'm saying I don't have a written application for it, and I'm asking who's applying from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Probably will not be interested in the final words after the general debate. I am initiating a debate in detail, which I also have no application for. No, I see Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš in a detailed debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-002-008.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-002-008.u7	Yes. Anyone else in the detailed debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. No proposal has been made for us to vote, so I end second reading when I see that there is no interest in the final words either from the appellant or from the rapporteur. We'll continue with the approved agenda, and that's... [[Voices from the diaper on the left: When will this be voted on?]] Sorry, I'm sorry, I'm just preparing another point that has to do with this, 268, because it also concerns Customs, enforcement of intellectual property rights. [[Laughing in the hall]] We will vote on shortening the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours. We'll decide in the vote number 14, but I'll check you out first and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards, because when I asked my colleagues to transfer the discussions to the lobby, the O.R. was a little vacated after all. The number of entries is sufficient, we can vote on shortening the time limit for discussion between second and third readings. Voting number 14. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 14. Of the 103 Members present for 92, against no one, the proposal was adopted. Thank you, and I'm done with point 8. We'll continue with point number
