ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act No. 73/2011 Coll., on the Office of the Labour of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of related laws, as amended /German press 257/ - second reading I ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to present this press. The rapporteur will be here right after you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a second reading, let me just briefly remind you that this proposal, above all, sets out the rules for granting subsidies for the financing of social services. It is actually the case that subsidies for social services providers for 2015 will be decided for the first time by regions instead of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Anyway, it's a thing that was supposed to be a long time ago, but it was still delayed. In recent years, the Ministry of Labour has also questioned the regions, because we cannot know all the individual providers, and those subsidies have, in the vast majority of cases, followed what the regions have recommended. So we believe that the transition is well-prepared. At this point, the grant management processes for 2015 are already underway on individual regions. And with regard to the indicative numbers, which will undoubtedly still be discussed here, that is, the percentage amount allocated to individual regions, so I would just like to say that this has not been decided by the Ministry, this has been agreed by the Social Commission of the Association of Regions and is based on their agreement on the figures from averages over the last three years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u3	Thank you. And now is the moment for the newsletter, virtually. First of all, it would be the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Hnyková, followed by the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Novotný. First, the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy. I ask her to introduce us to the resolutions of the committees that have been delivered to us as press 257/1 and 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon again and allow me, as rapporteur for this press, to introduce you to resolution number 66 of the Committee on Social Policy, adopted at the 9th meeting of 3 September 2014 on the Government Bill amending Act number 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act number 73/2011 Coll., on the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, House printing 257. Following the opening words of Michaela Marksová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and the report by Jana Hnyková, and after the debate by the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the press discussed and adopted the resolution which you will find, as has already been said, in the system under number 257/2. In addition to recommending the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No.108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act No. 73/2011 Coll., on the Office of the Labour of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, it also agreed with the proposed amendments and authorised the rapporteur of this Committee to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Otherwise, thank you for your attention, and I will take the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u5	Yes, you are the first to be logged in to the general debate. Before this happens, please, Mr Novotný, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 12th meeting of 4 September 2014 on the Government Bill amending Act No.108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act No. 73/2011 Coll., on the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of Related Acts, as amended, House Print 257. After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mrs Šteklová, Mr Novotný's report and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament first recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approve the Government's bill amending Act No.73/2011 Coll., on the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of Related Acts, as amended, the Chamber's press 257 without comment. Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u7	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, and now there is nothing to prevent us from opening up a general debate to which ten colleagues and colleagues are enrolled. As I have already announced, Mrs Hnyková will be the first to speak and Mrs Pecková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope I am here for the last time today -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u9	I'm sorry, rapporteur, I'm sorry, but I tried to gesticulate the noisy MPs, but it worked somewhere, but it didn't work out somewhere, so now I have to use the microphone - please calm down and all that. Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u10	So I'll start over, let me comment on the government bill amending Law No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act No. 73/2011 Coll., on the Office of the Labour of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, House Press No. 257 - and we are at second reading. This amendment is very important to me not only because it will be divided from the state budget by over CZK seven billion, but also because I have spent many years in social services and I have felt uncertainty about my own skin in allocating subsidies to social services facilities. We have always waited anxiously to see how much we will get, how we will get out, because it is no secret that social services in the Czech Republic will not survive without subsidies and users would get into a very difficult situation because the amount of their pension will not cover the cost of operation, regardless of whether it is a facility for seniors or disabled, a contribution or a non-profit organization. I have always been very inclined to transfer funding to the region so that the funds come closer to the needs of the user, and who else should know more about the conditions in their territory than the regions and their representation. Since the beginning of this year, not only I, but also other members of the Committee on Social Policy have been bombarded, as it will actually be - from both founders and regional workers. I'm gonna drop by a little bit on the history of this novel. What have we done for this? On May 5, 2014, I received the answer to my question as part of a visit to the Committee on Social Policy at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the question was: How will the transfer of funding to the region take place? What will be the preparation? What stage are we at? How will training or seminars take place? In answer to my question, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have told me that they must prepare the methodology of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for subsidies to the region. The following methodology will then be the decision to grant subsidies to the region, which will provide legal support for the procedures established by the methodology. There have also been concerns expressed by the various actors so that there is no difference in access to social service providers. During the transition, the methodology will be approved by the Regional Council and the governors should agree unanimously and approve the procedure. Financing should be non-discriminatory and transparent. I was not satisfied with this response and at the first meeting of the Sub-Committee on Non-Insurable Supply Systems for Disabilities, Seniors and Socially Threatened Groups on 15 May 2014, we listened to the workers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and drew attention to this issue of transfer of funding and called for the transfer of funding not to be a methodology, but by a government regulation that would be binding, the same for all regions in order to ensure funding for services in the region. Yet, even after this meeting, it was not heard - the demands of our subcommittee. That is why we have assessed this as serious and we have asked that this issue be brought to the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy. The extraordinary meeting for this was held on 12 June 2014 with the participation of the public. Guests appeared both from the Association of Regions, Disabilities, Associations of Providers, Unions and many other guests. There we learned that there was an agreement on directional numbers between the regions, although there was an opinion that it was not entirely fair, but eventually the regions agreed. There was also a discussion of the methodology and its replacement by government regulations. Representatives - especially representatives of the disabled, were afraid that the services would be financed everywhere in the same way within the Czech Republic. The representative of the Association of Providers pointed out that the methodology could not be discussed and that there could be 14 different social approaches. You'll learn all about this from the record. The committee members demanded a methodology to study, but it came to us much later than we should have, everything just sewed with a hot needle. An extraordinary meeting came on 17 July 2014 and the first reading of this law took place, and I was designated by the rapporteur, and I immediately stated in my opening report: "I do not agree that the process of financing social services should continue to be carried out by methodical instructions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs instead of implementing legislation." I do not understand why, after so many years of discussions on the form and content of the implementing legislation, a mere methodology is proposed, with its binding nature being given to be annexed to each individual administrative decision for each region. Among other things, I see circumvention of one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. Therefore, I will require the submission of an implementing regulation as soon as this amendment is in force. The methodology issued by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also contradicts the draft amendment to the Social Services Act. The proposed adjustment proposed by the Government provides with effect from 1 January 2014. 1. 2015 transition of responsibility for the implementation of the grant procedure to provide social services. In fact, transfers of funds to individual regions, which will be able to approve their own rules and divide the social services system into 14 different subsystems, break national unity and guarantee certain rules for the whole Czech Republic. The aim of the Government's proposed amendment is to fix the absence of legislation that would set clear national rules for the financing of social services. It is possible for regions to decide separately on the appropriations allocated. This fact of not adopting an implementing regulation, or government regulation, continued implementation of grant management by methodical instruction and autonomous decision-making of each region within its own competence would have far-reaching effects on social services clients, social services providers as employers and other entities affected by the subsidy procedure. Similarly, there would be a significant volatility in the social services system. I have tabled an amendment to the Committee on Social Policy, in which I demand that there be an implementing legislation that provides for... Mr President, could you give me some peace? I'm talking about serious things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u11	Yes, I ask all those who discuss, for example, with ministers, not to do so, or to do so outside this hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u12	Thank you. Then I raise my voice, and it looks like I'm screaming, but I don't want to scream, but the rush is really bothering me. - an implementing act laying down more detailed conditions for determining the purpose, amount, breakdown and method of granting the subsidy. The amount of the subsidy for the Region shall be fixed by the Ministry at the level of the percentage of the region in the total annual amount of funds earmarked in the State budget to support social services for the financial year in question. The amount of the percentage of the region is set out in the Annex to this Act. The Ministry provides, at its own expense, a computer program for submitting applications for subsidies and provides free of charge this programme, including its updates to regional authorities and social services providers registered under § 85 para. 1. Regional authorities and social service providers are obliged to use the subsidy application programme provided by the Ministry. The Regional Authorities are also required to use the programme to assess applications for grants from providers and to determine the amount of financial support. A request from a social service provider for a subsidy pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be deemed to have been submitted only to the region through this programme. The Region shall submit to the Ministry by 31 May of the financial year concerned by means of the computer programme referred to in paragraph 5 an interim overview of the drawing of the subsidies and by 31 March of the following financial year a final summary of the drawing of the subsidy for the financial year concerned. Furthermore, I ask that the subsidy be assigned to the social services subsidy and to the social prevention and advisory services subsidy. That's where the money belongs. Am I wrong? [[Noise in the hall.]] The amendment by my colleague Kaňkovský and my colleague, who has been approved on the committee and is part of the committee resolution, has unleashed great emotions and I myself have been put under pressure to withdraw my proposal, and this is still the case. A meeting was initiated last week with the workers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where there was an agreement that they would respect the establishment of a government regulation by the end of this year for the next period and that the indicative figures would be given to the government's regulation so that the Association of Regions could decide on them each year. A proposal came from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that the Government's order -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u13	I'm sorry, but the noise level is rising again. I was reminding Mrs Berdychová, I have to remind the Prime Minister, because he's doing the exact same thing. She's discussing with the Minister and disturbing the lady who speaks. So I'm sorry, it goes for everyone, Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u14	A proposal has come from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that the Government's regulation will not be accepted until 2018, which is totally unacceptable to me, and I believe that my amendment will find support for you at third reading. The Government's regulation was mentioned right from the start in the Social Services Act, and it is not an invention of Mrs Hnyková. You can all look into it. I just don't understand what Mr. Čermák's County Association is looking for and why it needs to be. In order for the amendment to work, how was it presented that we would turn social services into social democratic services, because in most regions it is this party that rules? I have a very serious concern that social services are at risk and that there may be a transformation, so they would go into private hands. Then, folks, we need to allocate more money from the state budget for the construction of workhouses. I must warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that the grant procedure has already started and the amendment is not approved. And I'm not gonna be an MP who will keep quiet about it and agree to whatever the Ministry submits to her, or else she's gonna put social services in jeopardy. On Wednesday, September 3, workers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs told us that the recasting of the methodology into the Government's regulation would not endanger the smooth running of subsidies, so I do not understand their new proposals. The appointments were completely different, and my colleagues from other political parties who participated in this meeting can confirm this to you. I want stable social services, transparent funding and the same conditions in all regions, but I do not believe that the methodology presented to us is its guarantor. I hope, fellow Members, that you will consider everything and not jeopardize the future in social services. I will sign up for my supplementary amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u15	I thank my colleague and Mrs Pecková, Mr Soukup will be ready. [[Screaming in the left side of the hall.]] Oh, come on, I'm really asking the left side of the room not to shout.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u16	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. At present, it regulates the percentage of the region's total volume of funding to support the provision of services between the regions and the capital city of Prague § 101a para. 5. In recent years, however, the Ministry did not comply with the criteria contained in the law and distributed funds in direct conflict with it, which is very easy to verify in available statistics directly from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In the amendment to the Act, it is proposed to determine the proportion of the region by percentages of the whole which are not in any relation to the real needs of the provision of social services or relevant statistical data such as. the number of inhabitants, the amount of care contributions paid or the capacities provided by social services in the region and are not justified by the Ministry. On the contrary, the amendment legalizes the situation where some regions are discriminated against at the expense of other regions. We therefore propose a simple and transparent criterion for the distribution of funds, according to the number of inhabitants of the regions and the capital city of Prague. For illustration only, in the amendment the proposed percentage for the capital city of Prague is 8.08 percent of the volume of funds at 11 percent of the population of the Czech Republic. If the Ministry's proposal was adopted, we believe that the principle of equality in the access of citizens of the Czech Republic to social services will be violated, and the legal standard can therefore be contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. It is not true that Prague has agreed to the regional agreement in its entirety. Prague has agreed that a change is needed and that it is ready for it immediately. She repeatedly protested against the fixation and the amount of the share, and the relevant councilman repeatedly addressed both the Ministry and representatives of individual regions, but they did not respond to the exceptions. We just want to ensure that all citizens have equal access to social services, based on clear transparent criteria, which will be regularly evaluated for a given budget period, so that the amount of funding, within the state budget, reflects the needs of the citizens of the region in question in a flexible manner. In a detailed debate, I will therefore sign up to the amendment and now thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u17	The next in line is Mr Soukup and Mrs Chalánková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in the spirit of the ideas of the members of the YES, to comment on the Rules of Procedure of the House, i.e. briefly, on the Government amendment to the Social Services Act. As a club press guarantor 257, I will propose to my colleagues for YES to vote in favour of the main thesis amendments. I therefore find it unacceptable to consider any amendment to postpone the transition from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the region. I consider the deadline 1 January 2015 to be unchanged. I have a strong reason for this - this is the rare agreement of the main actors of the transition of funding over the implementing amendment, i.e. the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Association of Regions and the Association of Social Services Providers. There are, of course, different views on some of the paragraphs and paragraphs of the amendment; they are reflected in the amendments. For a reasonable one, for example. I propose that the councillors, however, do not decide in the regions on the distribution of social services money. I will also propose to my colleagues in the club YES to support the proposal that the Ministry will not issue methodological guidelines for the announcement of grant proceedings, but a legally stronger government regulation or ministerial decree. [[17,00 hours]] On the contrary, I will not recommend that anything be changed to direct figures, according to which money will be distributed to social services between individual regions and the capital city of Prague. After all, there were no more serious comments during the negotiations on the amendment against them from the Association of Regions, which is also a member of the capital city of Prague. Personally, I very much welcomed the solution to another problem. This is an inspection of social services. To her level and especially to the fact that so far she had gone after accounting control rather than quality, the providers themselves complained for years. I think that transferring an inspection from overloaded labour offices to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is a systemic step in the right direction. I will support the amendment to include regional representatives in inspection teams against the original version of the amendment. What do I think is important? Some of the problems that are being addressed in good faith by the amendments will partly go away after the introduction of the principle of compensatory payments under the public aid scheme for services of general economic interest. The amendment envisages its full introduction in 2016. The clear rules for it are laid down by the decision of the European Commission in 2012 or 2011. Rules should lead to efficiency and transparency. It should also zoom in on the conditions and standards of social services in individual regions. Of course, while respecting regional specifics. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself, and as far as I know, neither will anybody from the club YES make an amendment to this press. We do not want to complicate the adoption of the necessary amendment. However, we will support sensible proposals that will not endanger it and, above all, the grant procedure for 2015. All of this, knowing that we consider the adoption of the amendment only as a first step towards putting order into the financing of social services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u19	Ambassador, you fit in about three minutes, just for your information. So you did what you said in the beginning. Mrs Chalánková, Mrs Aulická will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before calling on me to sign up in a detailed debate on my amendment, allow me to make a comment, which is also the opinion of TOP 09. We have before us the amendment to Act No. 108/2006 Sb., on social services, which is to implement the transfer of the subsidy to finance social services from the state budget to the region. If we go back to history, I think I've already pointed out here several times that the money paid to finance social services by 2006 was about 13 billion that year. CZK to provide care services. Nowadays we are combined with a contribution to care and with a subsidy to provide social services of about 27 billion. Crowns. So you can see that there is a lot of money, and yet there are always complaints about the lack of funding of social service providers. So it's just to the edge. By 2006, before the adoption of the Social Services Act, the hundred and eight, funding had been another way. The money went both as a dedicated subsidy to the budget of the region, which then allocated money to individual non-profit organizations with knowledge of the matter. Furthermore, it was the current which financed the bed subsidy to individual providers belonging to the municipalities. And the last was a package that went as a subsidy for the performance of the founding functions within the regions, which took over their facilities from the former district authorities. So it's just history. [[The noise in the room is getting stronger.]] Since 2007, when this Social Services Act came into effect, we have been in a different situation and assumed...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u21	I'm sorry again and I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u22	It was assumed that people who would need social services would pay everything from the care allowance, which was designed in this way. I believe that we have come so far that a large amendment to the financing of social services is needed, which will address the individual status of founders, whether they relate to regional founders, whether it applies to municipal non-profit organisations or so on, because the disproportion is constantly increasing. The Social Services Act does not really address the fact that the regions are also social services providers and will also be providers of subsidies. So be careful - I think this is a clear conflict of interest here. Last but not least, they will also go to control the use of subsidies, so I really consider it a conflict of interest. I will not go into the details that Mrs Hnyková has already explained here how the regions will actually implement this procedure. It is true that in June of this year we were familiar with the methodology written by officials at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the Committee on Social Policy. So it was one thing. I believe that we are from this elected politicians and Members who should have this situation in their hands and decide very responsibly, because this was indeed an agreement between the officials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Association of Regions, which agreed within all regions this way of transferring funding to the region. But not the Chamber of Deputies. We are talking about a methodology that is annexed to the law, which is supposed to be valid and effective only from next year, yet the regions are actually proceeding according to this methodology. So that's one thing. Then I pointed out that subsidies at least to municipalities should be approved by the regional council, but I will not take this matter from the mouth of my next colleague, who also spoke about it to the Committee on Social Policy and will certainly submit this amendment. We are talking about a subsidy that is non-interested, which means it is an unmandatory expenditure of the state budget. It is nice that we have a percentage agreement between individual regions, but we do not know how this subsidy will be embedded in the state budget, how such expenditure can even become mandatory. I believe that only a comprehensive change in the financing of social services. Last but not least, I would like to draw attention to the lack of an explanation so called. public aid, because it has been discussed here that it will be the provision of services of general economic interest, but I do not have the European Commission's statement that this is precisely the procedure agreed for the next year for granting subsidies to these regions. I believe that this law is not right, so I am signing up for an amendment which should postpone its effectiveness by two years and which should enable, on the one hand, to resolve disparities between individual regions, which may not be satisfied with the division, but, above all, a complete and comprehensive change in the financing of social services should be made. It should have been working on this for at least a year. I am not satisfied with this amendment. For TOP 09 I can also say that we will support, on the one hand, the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy, which also includes Mrs Hnyková's proposal in the original version, as well as the amendment by Mrs Aulická-Jírovcová and others, which we will analyse after today's second reading. Thank you for your attention and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u23	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Next, Madam Hana Aulická will speak. A colleague of yours, Vilímec, will be ready. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, too, to contribute to this discussion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment under discussion gives rise to a great deal of interest to all the actors concerned. However, after dozens of negotiations, we still see considerable gaps and shortcomings in the proposed amendment. The number of amendments tabled suggests this, but unfortunately the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not accept in most cases. One of the amendments is also tabled by me and concerns three paragraphs dealing with inspection areas. I see the control activity of social service providers with the participation of representatives of the regions concerned as a fundamental matter. The first amendment concerns § 82 para. 3 which relates to the revocation of the marketing authorisation. The proposed amendment binds the cancellation of the registration to the imposition of a penalty for administrative offense pursuant to § 107 para. Article 4 (1) (a) m). That is to say, an administrative offence committed by a legal or business natural person as a social service provider by failing to comply with the provisions set by the Ministry to remedy the deficiencies identified during the inspection. [[17.10 hours]] Such interconnection, however, is unacceptable, since it makes it very difficult for the flexibility, the enforcement of the law. The explanatory memorandum in Part 3 provides statistical data showing that a total of 1,643 inspections were carried out during the period 2008 to 2013, i.e. that out of a total of 5 729 registered social services, only 28,69 percent of registered social services were inspected in six years. At this frequency of inspections, the enforcement of the law is almost zero. In practice, this means that it will not be possible for several years to cancel the registration of social services providers who seriously repeatedly violate the performance of the statutory obligations. If the rights of users are violated, this time lag is unacceptable. There will be long-term social services of dubious quality in the system. The further amendment concerns § 98 para. 2 where, in view of the obligations imposed on the regions, it is unacceptable to exempt these entities entirely from the process of assessing the quality of social services. The regions should be able to participate in inspections of social services provided on their territory, as they should be aware of the quality of such services in view of the obligations entrusted to them by law. If the region does not have information on the quality of the services, there is a risk that the network will be oversized by other providers due to demand for the service, which will be considered a capacity problem, although the quality problem may be in place of the services provided. Financial claims on the state budget are also linked to this. However, the aim of each region in defining services is to create effective, capacity-compliant, but above all high-quality social services. The processes for registering social services, evaluating their quality and financing their provision are closely linked. The principle should therefore be close and active cooperation between all stakeholders, and it is therefore unacceptable that this should not be the case. The last amendment concerns § 85 para. 3. In the context of the fulfilment of the obligations laid down by the regions, in particular those relating to the financing of social services, it is necessary that they be informed as much as possible of the quality of social services in their territory, namely all the social services for which inspections have been carried out. In order to do this, they need to have specific outputs from inspections carried out. Information on the outcome of the inspection pursuant to Section 38a of Implementing Decree No. 505/2006 Coll., implementing some of the provisions of the Social Services Act, as recorded so far, are inadequate, therefore not sufficiently telling and are of different quality in different regions. I believe that this amendment will be Green in its third reading to help improve the proposed amendment on the transition of social services funding to the outskirts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u25	Thank you, Hana Aulická, for her performance. We continue with the debate by speaking to Mr Vilímec, Mr Beznoska will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u26	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, a rather extensive and critical debate has already been raised at first reading to address the readiness of this amendment to the Social Services Act. I confess that I have studied many materials in the meantime since the first reading, heard many arguments in favour and in favour of this proposal, whether the arguments of the region of which I am a permanent resident, the arguments of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic and of some social services providers. I have also taken advantage of the opportunity to make amendments through the Committee on Budgets, not the Social Committee, in those matters where, in my view, no consensus has been reached. In her opening speech, the Minister said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not set out the indicative figures, that it was set by the regions, that it was a matter of regional agreement. Well, I did a question at the Plzeň Region's representative, directed to Mr. Governor, who is the statutory representative of the Plzeň Region, whether the authorities, the Council of the Region's Association, actually voted on setting the fixed shares in the total amount in advance unknown, earmarked annually for the social services that are the subject of the annex to this law. I didn't get an answer. More light was brought into this by the Minister when she said that so-called. The regional agreement was only an agreement at the level of the Social Commission, respectively. Members of the Social Commission of the Regions. I think this cannot be done in a situation where it is not a decision to distribute thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions, but billions. It is not possible to accept, even if it is a majority opinion of the Commission, although it is a committee of experts, a social committee, without the vote of the regional authorities, the Council of the Regional Association. On my two amendments, which I applied to the Committee on Budgets, which relate to the very distribution of funds, respectively. cancellation of the annex, which fixes certain indicative numbers or certain shares for several years in advance, at least until the law changes, as well as the setting of the usual approval of individual subsidies to the regional council, respectively. the approval of separate powers, I received only brief opinions from both ministries, not only the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also the Ministry of Finance. In my view, the idea that these funds will go to the first amendment that I have applied and will apply in a detailed debate, the idea that we will distribute funds in the order of billions in some special way on the basis of exceptions to the Regional Law is absurd for me. The current diction of the Regional Law does not allow - and most or all regional representatives know - to distribute sums above 200 thousand without the council's decision. CZK, it is not possible to split a single crown outside the council if those amounts are directed to the municipality. Neither the part of the sentence on which the explanatory memorandum and the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are based, i.e. part of the sentence in Section 36 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) in relation to special-purpose subsidies from state budget funds, the competence of the Regional Council does not arise. It is simply not possible to interfere in this way with the self-government powers of the regional authorities, to determine the social services law, not the regional law, which the regional authority decides to grant the subsidy. At the meeting of the Budget Committee, the Ministry pointed out that all comments had been settled. But even the regions themselves - e.g. The Pilsen Region also requested that the proposed special arrangements for granting the subsidy be repealed in this case. Moreover, it is generally known that the council has the right to reserve additional powers outside the powers reserved to the Board. This was not called into question by representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or the present chairman of the Social Commission of the Association of Regions, Mr Čermák. Although I, as an opposition politician, am a critic of the current functioning of the regions, I must point out that the regions have been taught to plan their time so as not to endanger the operation of various subjects dependent on subsidies. I refuse that the Regional Council would not be able to decide on subsidies before June, as stated in the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Those are false claims from someone who has decided to defend the undefendable. We are witnessing constant use, in my opinion, rather overuse, of a term such as transparency. This government claims these terms, but in the present case the opposite is done. [[17.20 hours]] As far as the second serious objection is concerned, the so-called share of the regions in the earmarked amount is concerned, there is a special situation. It is not known in advance how much funding will be earmarked in the State budget for this purpose. This is always decided when approving the State budget for the relevant financial year. Setting shares in the unknown amount of funds is still very problematic and, of course, can ultimately affect the provider itself. Moreover, as the law is conceived, the shares are fixed as an average, at least that's said to be a three-year reference number. This means, among other things, that the condition that arose in the past is being preserved, when the system was not well known for determining the directional numbers. In the case of the adoption of this law, when I calculated it to the sum of 7 billion. 200 million, which is considered to be the amount in the next year, so the total subsidy per capita according to the regions ranges from CZK 461 in the case of Prague, up to CZK 817 in the case of another region. This dispersal is significant and not justified. In its opinion on my amendment, the Ministry stated that there is no correlation between the need for services and the populated area. The opinion states that, on the contrary, regions with a population drain, typically border regions, deal with social phenomena that are financially demanding on their territory. It is interesting, however, when I looked at the indicative numbers or the percentages and compared it with the location of the regions and the number of inhabitants of the individual regions, that in the case of some border regions, including the Pilsen Region, it did not reflect in that proportion. I would like to add that the proposed regulation, which I will put forward in a detailed debate at second reading, is that the Ministry will set up, on the basis of clear rules, these shares each year, which do not come out of the population alone, to be clear or registered capacity. The population is such a significant parameter that it cannot be lost. When you look at the population comparison and the level of the proposed coefficient in the government proposal, the differences are significant. Somebody's making a big profit, somebody's losing a lot of money. I don't want to talk about who's losing or making money on it right now, but it's interesting that those active representatives from the Association of Regions, or the Social Commission, are making more money on it. No relevant arguments were even put forward for such differences. Moreover, the establishment of these shares directly in the law will preserve the situation for at least a few years, and it will be very difficult to change these shares in the law and in my experience. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to divide these funds on the edge and do not pass the delay that will be proposed by two years or one year, it is possible to proceed in two ways. Either set individual percentages according to population, such a proposal will also be made, and I would say that this would be quite appropriate if these funds were transferred directly to the budgetary determination of the tax revenues of the regions. That's not the case. It is still assumed that state subsidies will be earmarked in the state budget each year for these purposes. In the present case, it is therefore apparent that the State Budget subsidy shares should be determined by the Ministry on the basis of clear rules for each financial year. It is neither wise nor reasonable here to relieve the Ministry of Responsibility. It is state money and the Ministry should divide this total for each year. Compared to the current practice, I propose to include the population among the criteria in the first place, because it is not acceptable for shares or indicative numbers in some cases to differ significantly in comparison to the population, unless there are completely transparent reasons for this, and I have not heard them. Some strangely formed agreement-non-negotiation at the Association of Regions or the Social Commission of Regions, to which some regions are building at least very lukewarmly, in some cases even renegade, is very far from any consensus reached. Therefore, in order not to create at the outset the conditions for 14 different social care systems - they already arise, but we do not need to deepen it - in the interests of clients in particular, support the amendments that correct the most criticized passages of the amendment to the Social Services Act if financing is not postponed by two years or one year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u27	I thank Mr Vilímc. Mr Adolf Beznoska will now take the floor. Your colleague Vít Kaňkovský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u28	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, just briefly on this proposal. I understand the motion. I think it is even factually correct, that is, to move the funding of social services to the edge and return control activities to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I have no problem with that, but I consider it a step in the right direction. What I have a problem with, though, is that the transition is completely unprepared. We're talking about the amount for this year, or about 7.2 billion next year. CZK, which will be redistributed by regions on the basis of some sort of directional numbers that the authorities have agreed with each other, and we do not know with what participation they have agreed between themselves. I consider that the first wrong move. Other wrong steps are that the relevant methodology, which is issued, is rather indicative for the regions. It is not legally binding and it becomes and will happen for sure that we will have 14 different methodologies for 14 of our regions, how to distribute this money to providers. I will leave aside what was mentioned here by Mr Vilímec, that these amounts should be decided quite clearly by the regional council, this should not be a competence reserved only to the regional council. Another question mark raises what happens when one of the social media providers who does not receive a contribution is called back. It'll bring a whole series of conflicts, confusion, and I think you understand where I'm going. I understand that the only sensible thing in all those amendments that have been heard and heard by the Committee on Social Policy, even I myself have made a number of proposals there, will be very simply this law by one year, or its effectiveness by one year. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u29	Thank you, Mr. Beznosk. Now the words will be taken by my colleague Kaňkovský. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u30	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the explanatory memorandum to today's amendment to Act No. 108/2006 Sb. talks about the fact that its aim is to regulate several major social services areas which are not fully satisfactory in the present form of the law. We all know that the fundamental impact of this amendment is the transition of the financing of social services to the region, or this is already from the diction at this time of the law in force. Opinions on this step have differed from the very adoption of the Act in 2006, both for politicians and for present and social service providers, but also for the public, of course, especially for the part of the public that is directly dependent on social services. [[17.30 hours]] I must say for myself that, in general, I support and consider the transition of funding to the region to be correct. I see every approach to decision-making on not only subsidies for social services closer to citizens positively, even more so for social services that affect in various respects the weakened part of the population. However, the question which relates to this plan is whether the entire funding transfer operation is well prepared in all segments involved. I have to say, I've been answering that question myself for a long time. At this point, I want to believe that I do. I have news from several regions, I can speak mainly for the Vysočina Region and I know that there the Vysočina Region is really very well prepared for this operation. However, I stress that this is not just on the verge. There's a lot more segments out there, and it needs to be said that the times are advanced. In this context, I would like to point out that it is a great pity that it is on this issue, virtually. to the amendment to the Act on Social Services in second reading, we are not received until mid-September. I don't want to speculate about the causes. I certainly don't think that's just an MPSV. But it certainly brings uncertainty and restlessness to the entire segment of social services, but mainly uncertainty for the needy who depend on the functioning of social services. I repeat, I don't want to be blindly criticized, I'm just regretting it. Shortly to the explanatory report, which, among other things, mentions the two fundamental objectives of this amendment. Firstly, it is the setting up of transparent financing for social services following the transition of social services to the region and, secondly, an adjustment to the definition of the medium-term plan and social services network. In addition, there are, of course, a number of other points. I must say that this is entirely in line with the coalition agreement and with the government's programming statement. Today's amendment deals with these areas, but unfortunately, from our point of view, it does not quite reach the desired goal. In this context, we see as one of the greatest risks the amendment envisages that most of the processes of the transition of funding to the region and then the fulfilment of this plan will take place on the basis of the MPSV methodology. In this respect, we are clearly convinced that this is such a major operation, which needs to be regulated by higher legislation. It is no longer a secret that the social services network, but also its quality and the directly related availability of social services for citizens, are often fundamentally different in individual regions. Of course, it depends on the approach of each region to social issues. We would certainly find top regions here and maybe some regions where it isn't exactly top. In the future, however, we need to minimise current inequalities in access to social services across our Republic. As a key to the KDU-ČSL club, it is then to achieve greater public control of the distribution of subsidies to the region than proposed by the government amendment. It's already been mentioned here. We also believe that this authority should be left to the regional council as the highest authority of individual regions. For these reasons, after long consultations with representatives of social service operators, but also with regional representatives, I concluded that it would be necessary to adjust some of the parameters of the proposed amendment. I merely point out that we have been communicating with all categories of social service operators, i.e. both from the non-profit sector and with organisations established by the regions or municipalities. Then we proceeded to process the amendment, which, as I confess, and colleagues from the Committee on Social Policy know, went through certain, at some stages, not entirely idyllic developments. Thank you at this point to MPSV representatives that even though we could not find common ground at first, we have removed a number of contradictions in the last stage, which I appreciate. I will then present the prepared amendment in a detailed debate. Finally, I would like to express my belief that, as the coalition emphasizes the fulfilment of the coalition contract and the government's programming declaration on the issue of the transfer of funding to the region itself, that we will be equally courageously and consistently in the coalition, and I hope that even outside the coalition, we will devote what follows on the diction of these documents, that we will take further steps to standardising social services, to defining and cultivating the social services network and, in particular, to seeking tools to promote multi-annual funding for social services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u31	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Hovorka's microphone. Please prepare Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in support of Mr Kaňkovský's amendment and make some arguments that will support his words. In our country lives 1.64 miles. Seniors over 65 years and 400 thousand. people are over 80 years of age. By the age of 26, the number of seniors over 65 should double and the number of people over 80 even triple. Long-term care requirements are growing sharply, but they do not yet exist in our country, or there are basically no social services in our country. Social expenditure amounts to 41.7 billion. CZK, out of which care allowance 18.1 billion. CZK, subsidies to social service providers 12.7 billion. CZK, customer payments 9.5 billion. CZK and payments for nursing care from health insurance about 1.4 billion. Kč. For several years there has been an effort to create a long-term care financing system, but this work has not been successful for at least 15 years. This concerns, in particular, the financing of care at the limits of the social and health system, where there is no agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry, and these problems are being thrown from one ministry to another. Such evidence may be the latest disputes between health and social services providers in senior homes where no agreement can be reached with health insurance companies on the reimbursement of nursing care in the 913 expertise. And unfortunately, there's no deal. The MPSV said that it would no longer finance healthcare in homes, and a code was created and should have started paying health insurance companies, but since these costs are increasing rocketically, insurance companies are, of course, prevented from financing this care in full. I would like to quote a few lines in this matter: we have quite a lot of constitutions in this country. However, domestic care is not booming, and especially because practical doctors who can prescribe such a service are being limited, so we have to choose a constitutional solution prematurely. It is the long-term hospitals and retirement homes that are institutions that at first glance deal with similar activities, but the difference is very fundamental. From a financial point of view, to say the least. While a patient in long-term hospitals doesn't pay anything at all, in the other, that is, in social care homes, he gives most of his pension and sometimes the family has to pay more costs. [[17.40 hours]] The criteria under which a long-term hospital is to be elected and where a senior home is not clearly set. In addition to the financial motivation of the family, local availability decides. In districts where more beds are treated in the long term, there is less capacity in retirement homes and vice versa. Putting your grandmother into follow-up care is the cheapest solution for the family, but the most expensive for the state. These hidden social hospitalizations are no exception. Analysis of the project The available health and social care estimates that the cost of the project is at least 3.5 billion. Kč. It is important to see how this situation of elderly care is dealt with in other countries. In Sweden, there are social services provided by municipalities. The Germans have special insurance, which was also mentioned in our country, unfortunately it did not reach the end. Austria prefers home care. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Minister Němeček to agree that the 15-year work on the concept of long-term care should be completed. And now I want to mention specifically the Social Services Act. Many of the accusations that have been raised here by my previous speakers are justified. The biggest problem that social service providers have is that they fear that after the transition of social service funding to the region, there will be no level playing field for all providers, i.e. both for the regional ones, the ones they set up the regions, and the non-profit organizations. The next thing I point out is the unclear criteria for granting subsidies. This means that the Ministry passes on the problem of financing to the region, many regions are prepared and many regions are very positive about this and they also finance social services from their budgets. On the other hand, there are regions where the approach is very different. There, a number of contribution organisations will not be able to achieve funding comparable to how regional contribution organisations are financed. In this context, I again like to quote the conclusions of the working team on social issues of the Union of employers' associations of the Czech Republic from 17 April 2014: Employers, respectively. social service providers continue to insist on setting up a financing system that could be marked by the following marks: The introduction of at least framework measurable procedures at central level, i.e. at the Ministry. The introduction and use of measurable procedures and criteria in each region that would allow the back verification and calculation of the amount of State subsidy received. In contrast to the current or existing system, implement measures and principles that guarantee transparency of the subsidy procedure. Allowing representatives of the social partners to participate in terms of supervision of the so-called regional subsidy procedure. Furthermore, social service providers call on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to introduce possible measurable procedures, calculation formulas, compensations, personnel standards, etc., on which they have been working for the last months. For these reasons, the social partners for the employer's side require the submission of a proposal for a technical-organization solution, the submission of the preparation of these issues in the Social Services Act, the submission of a methodological instruction to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the submission of principles that would allow, according to measurable procedures, the control of subsidies which would transparency the entire system of allocating subsidies to social services, and, in particular, the publication of comprehensive requests from the regions for 2014. This is an extraordinary requirement where the control of what was before the date of the handover of social services to the county is achieved, because then it is possible to find out how individual regions financed social services and how much money they received from the central budget. For these reasons, as I have already said, I support the amendment tabled by my colleague Kaňkovský, and I also ask for his support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Bendl's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with, as I must remind you here that for a very long time the state has basically no longer set up any organizations that provide social services at all. They are mainly set up by cities and municipalities, and the more important ones, say, and more important ones are set up by regions. And I note that the regions have been ruled by social democracy for almost seven years and that the situation has reached almost absurd levels in the field of social welfare, because we are seeing that serious social service providers are not operating, both those set up by the regions or municipalities and those from the non-state sector, but more and more so-called. providers of social services who are not effectively providers of social services. One number for all and don't take my word for it. But sometime in 2002, the Central Bohemia Region had about 200 social care providers, today it has about 700 of them. If you look at their structure and what they often provide for so-called. Social Services, you'd be appalled about how many times we call social services. I agree that the state should not have 14 states or 14 different levels of social services in the sense that somewhere it must not be a disaster, and if it is somewhere good, then it is probably okay. I think that the state should guard some basic level and some standard of social care provision in the Czech Republic and should require regions just as it does in the field of health, because the regions are obliged to submit to the Ministry of Health and to discuss on the basis of a council approved concept, discuss their health issues with the Ministry of Health. In the field of education, which in turn has regional competence, the region is obliged to approve the concept of education every year and to go to the Ministry of Education and to discuss whether there should be more grammar schools or more educational schools, or more industrial schools etc. - and this is not such an important area in the field of social affairs. Then no wonder every county does what it wants. Some regions clearly do not consider the provision of social services as a priority. If you look at the expenses of individual regions, it is not possible to do so. Somewhere they take care of it more, somewhere less. Somewhere they succumbed to the feeling that the European money that flows into this area because it is huge and big, so almost everyone who claimed to want to provide the so-called. social service, so he was allowed to do so, but in fact, as I say, in a number of cases, social service is not really provided to our citizens. And it is necessary to keep an eye on it and force the regions to keep an eye on the effectiveness of the social services money spent, because, as I say, there is really no way that a lot of money that should get to the needy is getting to the needy. We need a stable environment because it is not possible for us to force clients to change social service providers every two weeks in the area of providing social services. It is not possible to constantly move and tell them: today you no longer have support, or the region will not support one or the institution today. Such devices need to be negotiated for a longer period of time and, at the same time, it is necessary to be sure that they meet a certain standard that needs to be met. [[17.50 hours]] What standard will the state have with its resources, that's a question. To what extent it will be or will not be a priority for him. But today, believe me, there are a lot of those who haven't been there for a long time on the social system or the provision of money in this area, and it should be our goal to keep the funds with those who do. Therefore, I would argue that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should take this matter into account, force and force the regions to demonstrate and say how they imagine the provision of social services in their territories, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should also say what the standard is, and that required it, but then left to the autonomy of individual representatives and regions, to what extent they will feel that this is a priority for them or not. The regions were strengthened by their autonomy, the financial resources that they received from the budgetary determination of taxes increased in the past period, which, although the fact that when the region received less tax funds, the state also obtained them, often the regions suddenly explained it by sending them less. At the time of the financial and economic crisis, this was simply true, because the regions now breathe more or their budgets more with both the state and the regions, because they are linked not to subsidies or to a large extent to subsidies, but to a significant part of the so-called own revenue from individual taxes. Therefore, they must be aware of this region and should say what they really want in this area. Let the state say what the standard is. And I really remind social democracy that almost two parliamentary periods have been in charge of providing social services and cannot be excused for someone or someone else's government to do so. I think the fact that 14 systems have been created here, and it's obvious, it's not worth it in the past.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u35	Thank you. Now please go to the microphone with the actual - please, Mr. Ambassador. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u36	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, what we have just heard from the Member is pure demagogy. Look, since 2002, the regions have virtually only facilitated the fact that contracts and requests were and have been registered to be set up by a provider in a given region. Otherwise, it was decided by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which was managed by Mr Drábek, and thanks to this, the number increased to the number that the Member has just mentioned here, and he heard these numbers from me yesterday. Of course, the second thing is that this law, or the amendment, which will now be discussed here and sent to the third reading, just allows these numbers to be corrected to be controlled by the providers, and the regions have not yet had the opportunity to influence it in any fundamental way. Instead of receiving money from providers on time from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, each region had to set up a certain amount of money at the beginning of the year to pre-finance the providers, because the money from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs came mostly in March or April, and these are the questions for Minister Drábek, who ruled here during the past period. So much to explain, because it was really pure demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u37	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I beg you, Mr Bendl, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u38	No, I have to stand up for Mr Exministra in this respect, because I was the governor of two parliamentary periods, and I know that's not the case. If, by the way, the governor, the council didn't want to release these funds, it wouldn't have happened. But since the individual regions came to the Ministry with it and pushed for it, so simply that the minister simply came to meet them is their responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u39	Thank you. And now, please, the duly registered Mr Běhounek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u40	Madam Vice-President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, all who perform here are in a way right. I've been the governor for six years, not the entire second term, and I've already had a meeting on social services with five governments. When, finally, one of the governments - and it may seem to you that I'm travelling here for a government that is a coalition social democracy - is trying to sort out this matter in some way and is discussing it from the very beginning with the regions, the Social Commission is involved in creating what the client really has and in order not to be providers in the first place, so here I hear what I hear. I believe that the displacement of this law and its adoption is indeed a step in ensuring that clients and the description of these services are absolutely unambiguous, meaningful and really in favour of them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u41	Thank you. Mr Laudát's envoy, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I don't know what to think about this. I began to be strongly in doubt about the quality of the law and about some agreed consensus, because I hear from both the coalition and the opposition Members that they all consider the amendment of the law to be necessary, but what is happening here right now is no longer evidence that there is simply a clear and clear amendment coming to pass. I've already had doubts about the behaviour of the advocates of this law on the budget committee, where I don't know what to think, when the representatives of the Association of Regionals say something there, my colleague Vilímec is waving a piece of paper to prove it isn't, and he's still saying it, which means he's obviously lying. We were not even able to agree on the real attitude of the political representation of the capital city of Prague. I understood that in recent years, individual regional politicians have lobbied some subsidies, and now the lobbying and lobbying will codify themselves into the law, at least as it is presented in the original proposal, which I consider not only unfortunate but even immoral. I am not a pragocentrist or Pražák naturel, but I just think it is necessary what colleague Hovorka called for here to make the criteria clear, measurable and the same for everyone. And if there are any spies, as we used to hear very often before the collapse of Czechoslovakia, that should be matched by some extraordinary subsidies or by some decrees. I don't know which one of you knows what's gonna happen when he walks through the original, if that's what you're gonna do in the coalition, and you're gonna go through the draft of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which I understand from the budget committee that that's gonna happen, or if they're gonna go through some of those changelings, what that's gonna mean. It's a shame that Mr. Babiš isn't here, because if there's a chance that there's going to be a wild flow of finance, it's probably in this chaoticly approved law. [[18.00 hours]] And what happens if something gets approved or something doesn't get approved? I would ask the Minister to give us a clear analysis of what some changelings will mean in terms of finance, what this will mean in the impact on individual regions. I understand that it is considerably better than the original draft that Mrs Hnyková's amendment, which is a disgrace to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is trying to correct it here in some way, or whether it is approved in agreement, I do not know, because during this discussion there is an unprecedented situation that from time to time there is criticism from the coalition's ranks, from opposition praise to some parts, so the coalition approves some amendments, virtually. some of her politicians. We could still look forward to a clear word about what will happen at the third reading. I note that I am not a member of the Social Committee, so maybe its members are the only ones who still know and can derive some effects. However, I would consistently advocate that you do not declassify social services providers in the territory of the capital city of Prague. I am sorry that it is social democracy that comes with an amendment that can be dangerous, which, at least according to responses from social service providers in the territory of the capital city of Prague, can really mean this fundamental inequality. Do not wait, or it may happen that the political will of Prague's representatives will not be able to grow up and level the laps of this law after the election. However, I would still like to know at this reading, if the Minister had told us in advance, it would be worth the idea of which of these amendments the Ministry will support, and therefore I assume that the coalition will accept and which it will not. I don't know if there's gonna be any more names on the board, or if that's it, 'cause it's already blessed, the board isn't enough. I'd really like that. I feel, Madam Secretary, that your ministry, the Department of Transport... I understand that you will not make any radical solution, Prime Minister, before the elections, but after the election, please don't let some ministries fall into chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u43	Thank you. I have Mr. Votava's application here with the facts. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, coworkers, won't let me react to my honored colleague Laudát. My colleague, through you, Madam Vice-President, I do not know who lied to the Committee on Budgets. I know for a fact that Deputy Čermák was there, and he spoke with the Regional Association agreement. He's chairman of the Social Commission. I have no reason not to believe that he gave the statement of the Association of Regions. Of course, I can like it, or it doesn't have to be called. an indicative number, which seems to be the same for Mr Vilímc, but that is the agreement in the Association of Regions and must be respected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u45	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Laudát, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u46	Mr Votav, I have understood this so that I should be corrected by other people present on the committee that took place in this room. It was not only about defending the position, but also about defending the substance. And Mr. Vilímec said, for example, there. about the Plzeň Region, and here he, I think, repeated today, came another position. And I find it weird that the representative of Prague didn't act too forcefully at any negotiations, but from the minutes I was informed, there were some reservations, but I said, I didn't read the minutes. But then I would find it unusual why the city council opposed the amendment, as presented by the MPSV, stood up quite forcefully and renegadely. I don't know, I don't want to judge. I didn't even say the county rep was a liar. I'm just saying, I don't know what to think. There was a claim against the claim. And unfortunately, it's not the only case we've been getting into lately that apparently the truth is class.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u47	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I have now duly signed up for Mr Bendl's debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u48	Thank you for the floor. I didn't really understand Mr. Governor and Mr. Běhounka, his comments. Does this, then, Mr President, mean that you are absolutely satisfied with this bill? This bill will result in equalization of social welfare standards in the Czech Republic, if supported by the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, and will result in those who were originally recommended by individual regions to provide and be those drawing funds, even though they do not provide basically any social services? They're gonna get out of this, so there's more left over for those who really own it? Are you satisfied with this proposal absolutely as a region and you want it to pay as soon as possible? That was my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u49	Thank you. I must say that I no longer see any application for a general debate or a factual point, so I am ending the general debate. I am opening a detailed debate in which the Members have signed up. Well, there is an interest in the final words - the rapporteur, Madam Secretary. Both? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u50	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, I would first of all like to say that this is not a revolution. Since 2007, the Ministry of Labour has essentially followed the recommendations of the regions. We sent a subsidy of 2.5 thousand providers to 5.5 thousand social services in staffing 2.2. And it's obvious that it's probably hard to verify here from Prague which of these providers are good and who are not. Of course, the people at the Ministry have been asking the regions, and as I say, since 2007, we have basically been doing nothing that the regions would not recommend. Those regions themselves figured out which providers they wanted the subsidies for, and of course this is the same thing. I sometimes feel that some of you may think that by hitting January 1, 2015, these regions will suddenly go crazy and probably choose completely different providers than they have chosen since at least 2007. That is, of course, absurd and not true. It's also totally unfair to say that it's some kind of CSSD policy. The counties have their plans, they run according to them. In many regions, charity is supported, diaconies are supported, it is a wide range, as it is in the regions, as providers work. I would also like to say that it is not true that suddenly we will have 14 completely different methodologies. The central one in the quotation marks is the methodology of the Ministry of Labour and the others are regional mutations, but they must respect the basic principles of equal access. Above all, equal access to both their contribution organisations and others that they do not establish. And the D.O.D. has leverage. If the county doesn't follow it, then the money, maybe the other payment, maybe it doesn't have to be there either. Otherwise, it is also absolutely crucial that this amendment provides for the obligation of the regions to set up a network of social services in the territory of the region in cooperation with the municipalities. That's also crucial. That's what we're all heading for. I would also like to add that, of course, this amendment is so called. technical and we expect that there will be a big amendment to the Social Services Act in 2015, because there are a lot of things that we know must change, that must be improved. It's gonna be a big debate, so I'm sure we don't neglect it. [[18.10 hours]] And just one last comment on the numbers. The regional association agreement was that it would be the average in the last three years. That means, three years later, this government wasn't there. So if anyone doesn't like it, then ask your own conscience who's been there and who's been determining these numbers in the last three years. As far as Prague is concerned, first of all, I would point out a little bit there that, while it was agreed in February, Prague started to discuss it sometime in July. It is also important to know that Prague is different from other regions, among other things, by being also a region and a municipality. This means that, unlike those regions, she still has additional revenue from the budgetary determination of taxes, and that is also to be borne in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u51	Thank you, Minister. Now, please, with the final word of the rapporteur, Mrs Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you who are not members of the budget and social committee see how serious the issue has now been discussed. In the general debate, 12 colleagues and, with a factual remark, four and a priority right, one have spoken. I want to say that we have discussed mostly the percentage of regions, the efficiency of the transfer to the edge, or the delay. There was also talk of stricter rules, i.e. the replacement of methodology by government regulations. The quality inspection and the preparation of the law have also awakened here. Of course, there was also a request for greater public control of the regional council. Social services and their biggest issues have also been presented here. And, of course, there has also been a request made to the Ministry of Labour regarding the implications of the amendments to the budget. I would like to say to you that there is an extraordinary social policy committee meeting tomorrow to discuss all the amendments to this amendment. We don't care what social services look like. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u53	Thank you and please now with Mr Laudát's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u54	Thank you for the floor. As has been said here in another context, answers will not come to you. It doesn't matter, but I'm going to put a rhetorical question and maybe not for everyone. Do you know what Biafra of Reason is? Biafra is one of the provinces of Liberia and sometimes, I don't know, I was still very young, there was a civil war. Eventually, it ended up being that everyone shot at each other when they met. It was called Biafra then, because of the war in Biafra. This was translated into the spiritual world as the term Biafra of Reason, complete chaos. Madam Secretary here, with what she said, she was able to seriously deny what the governor, ex-teamers, maybe social democracy politicians said. If you've noticed what she said, it's the exact opposite. So I really don't know anymore. It's really just Biafra of reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u55	Thank you. We will now finally proceed to the detailed debate which I am initiating. I have Mrs Hnyková registered to her. Please prepare Mrs Pecková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u56	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sign up to an amendment supplementing my amendment tabled on the Committee on Social Policy, paragraph 32 § 119 reads: Appointing provisions, the Government is issuing regulations for implementation, and now I am inserting § 101, and I continue, and Paragraph 101a (1) (a) (b) (c) (d) (i) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v))) (v)) (v) (v)))) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))))))))))) (v))))))) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 7. It was inserted into the system under House document 1348. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u57	Thank you. And now, please, to Mrs Pecková's microphone. Madam Aulická will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I will apply to the amendment, which is in the system under number 1189. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u59	I'd like to see the microphone for Mrs. Aulická. Please prepare Mr. Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to sign up for my amendment, which is in the system under number 1344. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u61	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Vilímec to the microphone, Mr Kaňkovský will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to subscribe to House document 1327. These are amendments which I have justified in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u63	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Kaňkovský's microphone, Mrs Chalánková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u64	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I allow myself to sign up with this amendment, which is inserted under number 1369 in the system. To begin with, I would like to make a clear point that our amendment does not require the completion of the transfer of social services funding to the region. Our proposal touches two areas in a matter of fact. In points 2 and 5, we propose an adjustment in the legislative framework for the financing of social services, both by laying down the conditions for the creation of medium-term plans so that their framework is governed by implementing legislation and not only by the methodology of the MPSV. Furthermore, our proposal delegates the power to decide on the provision of funds and their distribution to the highest authority of the region, the Regional Council. We also propose that the determination of the percentage of the regions be laid down by implementing legislation for each budget period. The last, fifth point concerns the determination of the normal costs of individual social services by means of implementing legislation. In order to avoid any disruption of the transfer of funding for social services to the region, we agreed with some, we could say perhaps a little conflicting provisions with the request of the MPSV and propose the deferred effectiveness of these provisions. I'm going back to point 1. This resulted from repeated requests from the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, and on this point we propose a change in the granting of care allowances in the fourth degree of disability to those who are able to communicate and are, in the technical terminology, people oriented but who are not able to handle all other basic vital functions. At present, these persons fall in the third stage, but require the 24-hour care of a loved one or caregiver. I am aware that there are other issues in this area that need to be addressed in the assessment of claims for individual degrees of care contributions, and I firmly believe that we will focus on this issue intensively in the Committee on Social Policy and that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will continue to deal with this. The aim is for us to reach a systemic solution to this issue and for none of the groups of these disabled people to feel threatened in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support our proposals and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u65	Thank you and I will now ask Mrs Chalánková to prepare Mr Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u66	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to Amendment 1368.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u67	Thank you. And now I will ask Mr Beznoska. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u68	Thank you. In Article 101, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 I propose replacing the words "31 December 2014" with "31 December 2015." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-007-012.u69	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate and I am also ending the second reading of this proposal. Now, we're going to look at the next item, number 18, which is
