ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u1	10. Proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Stanislav Grospič and others for a constitutional bill on referendum on the abolition of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies /German press 66/ - first reading This item was interrupted at the 6th meeting until Wednesday 19. 2. the hearing has not been initiated. Mr. Speaker, you have the floor. I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall so we can hear each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Prime Minister, Members of the Government, Mr President. We got to that point, but unfortunately it wasn't even launched. I therefore submit for the group of plaintiffs a draft constitutional bill on the referendum on the abolition of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies. At the beginning, I remind you that the proposal was made at a time when it was possible to consider abolishing the law itself, but at this point I submit that the proposal itself can no longer be that way, because the law became effective after its entry into force and in effect. Of course, there have been a number of steps between the government of the Czech Republic, its individual administrative bodies and churches, religious societies, and this law can no longer be abolished without compensation, it can only be changed and its shape changed, because the law itself assumes that the settlement process will be essentially 30 years old, and therefore we are talking about what can be changed in the law and why it needs a referendum. In principle, this law does not refer to the law itself, i.e. the law on the settlement of churches and religious societies, as it was submitted during the last parliamentary term and approved by the then Chamber of Deputies of the previous parliamentary term, but talks about how citizens would have expressed themselves on this matter. I note that at the time the law was negotiated, opposition to the bill oscillated in the Czech society between 60 and 80 percent and resistance in the company remains around 70% with the implementation of the law. I am well aware of all the arguments and my colleagues that the law adopted by the Chamber of Deputies can also be abolished and amended by the Chamber of Deputies, from which the legislature is and we do not need a referendum. I thought I'd have a much more difficult situation than he's in the company at the moment, but I don't. The very discussion of individual cases, the implementation of the law itself on the settlement of the state with churches and religious societies has such a bump, has such a large number of missteps, but also the strange steps themselves, that I believe that a change of law must take place, and the reason for which there should be a referendum is given in a relatively simple way. When you look at the requests of individual churches, individual religious societies, you find that property is required that cannot even be legally issued. Built-in land, for example, where the law says that it is not issued, that it is replaced, yet an application for a particular plot is made. Let me give you an example, and now without in any way wanting to harm or highlight anyone, let me remind you, for example. a request from the Archbishop of Prague for the issue of real estate in the South Bohemia Region. It is a concentration school in Kolodějí u Týn nad Vltavou, which was built in the 1960s - 1970s, and there is a request for the issue of land, including the properties standing on them, even though these land is covered by a refund which is in the financial part. I could, a moment ago we ended discussing the Act on the abolition of the Brdy military retreat, where at the same request of the Prague Archbishop, there are also some interesting things where the request for the release of the land with one building which has lost its original construction character is today a children's facility for summer children's camps. A number of other properties serving children's recreation and, of course, other purposes for which they were built are added. So the law itself, as the previous government conceived it, essentially had to prevent the collision in the issue of individual assets and said: This will be discussed and published on the basis of requests, this will not be issued, it is appreciated in this way. And now we can go back to the debate, and I don't want to lead it on purpose, whether it was awarded correctly or incorrectly, and it's going to be spent in money. So natural restitution is not possible, the restitution will be financial, i.e. replacement in money, and yet both processes occur. As the government failed to negotiate any change in the volume of funds, but also in the individual churches, religious societies are unwilling to agree with the state to comply with the law. And so we are now in a position where the government and Parliament are on the one hand responsible for certain social processes in the Czech Republic and, on the other hand, on the basis of contracts concluded in a very rapid manner by the government of Petr Nečas, with individual imaginary entities who do not want to accept the need to redefine the settlement process itself. In this respect, I think it is possible, indeed, to proceed with the social pressure that will create the one-off referendum. Now to the bill itself, because it is relatively simple, its construction is known in the Czech Republic. It is a construction based on a one-off referendum on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, i.e. it has the same constitutional structure, including how we come to review the results of the referendum, after the procedure to the Constitutional Court. It is a question of avoiding any repetition, or of failing a referendum, etc. It therefore has a structure that you could easily read, because the text of the Constitutional Law itself, as otherwise in the Constitutional Law, is very short and narrow, because it must correspond to the fact that the Constitution cannot be extended by some far-reaching projects. [[17.50 hours]] In this respect, of course, I am already saying that the question itself would be changed at second reading if the bill was released for second reading, because the law itself cannot be abolished, but it can be changed and thus created a social pressure for the government and individual churches and religious societies to be willing to compromise a new one, which corresponds to the moods of Czech society, but also to the economic possibilities of the state in this situation. As far as the construction itself is concerned, I repeat that the referendum is announced by the President of the Republic after its approval. Individual circuits are made as circuits for the selection, the addition is classic as we know it, and, of course, the announcement of results within 30 days of the submission of the proposal, no later than 90 days until it takes place. Cancellation, respectively. The amendment of that law would then be carried out by the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of a sum of such results. If the view of society were the opposite, the law would be implemented in its original form with the consent, with the legitimate consent of most citizens. This is probably the most important thing not to repeat the things that you could easily read in the explanatory memorandum, and did not consider you to be colleagues who do not read the proposals that we are making to the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that the constitutional structure corresponds to how the first constitutional structure of the individual referendum was adopted in our country. And with regard to the reservations I have read from the government, I consider them more of a technical nature, easy to remove at second reading. I also offer this for a group of plaintiffs. Just like I'm offering answers to the financial amount. And I do not have to answer what you know from the Parliamentary Institute, that this is not a matter that contradicts European law, but is the exclusive right of the Czech Parliament to act as part of the European Union, and certainly no one would blame us, because a law such as that adopted in our country is not adopted in any of the states of the current twenty-eight. So much for the opening. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I'll ask him to sit in the position of plaintiff. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Radek Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, fellow Members, as regards the content of the proposal, I believe that you have been sufficiently familiar with this proposal by the petitioners. In my role as rapporteur, I will try to limit myself to factual comments on the text, because I assume, of course, a rich discussion on this sensitive subject. The Constitution, of course, in its Article 2 (2) of the Constitution. 2 envisages that the constitutional law can determine when the people exercise state power directly. Therefore, this proposal is completely conformal. I'm afraid that at this point, we are already reaching an area where we are at all confronted with the question of whether or not the next procedure is in accordance with the Constitution. Unfortunately, I believe that this proposal does not fully reflect the case-law of the Supreme Court, and this is already the opening one, which refers to the constitutional finding 242/2010, which stipulated that the legislature's procedure, which has not taken any legal measures in the long term concerning the extradition of the historical property of the churches, is unconstitutional. I can also refer to a constitutional finding which confirmed the constitutionality of the property settlement law with churches and religious societies. Furthermore, I would like to refer to several constitutional findings which have repeatedly told us that if there is legitimate expectations and some legal certainty of the addressees of a legal standard, this must be maintained. I believe that in the light of this caselaw, even if we were to exert social pressure, as has been said here, even if it were decided in a referendum that the Parliament of the Czech Republic should abolish the legislation in question, this social pressure cannot additionally sanctify, if I use this word in connection with church restitutions, it cannot further sanctify that the law will be abolished and the legitimate expectations of the addressees of the legal standard will be violated. There are a number of other questions that the petitioners do not answer. And I have also watched various media speeches in this context, and I also look forward to discussing whether this question will be answered in any way. It is a question of private contracts which have already been concluded in accordance with Section 16 of the Act on property compensation with churches which, by their nature, are private. It follows directly from the law that they are concluded on the basis of the Civil Code. And even if we were to admit that the referendum would be approved, said yes to the repeal of the law, the law would eventually be abolished, then I would be interested in the answer to the question of what to do with these treaties, because they will continue to apply and bind their parties. And the Civil Code doesn't remember the possibility of breaking an obligation under the law, and then the question is whether such ingence in private relations would also be inadmissible and unconstitutional. Another concrete point from my side, which should be made here - or I point out, I am really trying to make substantive comments, in a possible political debate I will consider my speech to the general debate. I'm just really technical. The law on property settlement with churches further envisages the total separation of the State from the Church and in this context Act No. 218/1949 Coll., on Economic Security of Churches. It would therefore be necessary to renegotiate the issue of funding churches and religious societies in this country, where I think that the trend of complete separation is certainly correct and desirable. In the light of these big question marks, if we could reach a referendum and a possible repeal of the legislation and this opinion would be found to be unconstitutional, then the financial costs associated with the referendum should be assessed. The submitters state - and I think the estimate is qualified - that the costs could be around 500 miles. CZK for the referendum in this form, as proposed. And if, with a little exaggeration, I call it an effort to develop social pressure or some broader sociological survey with uncertain results in view of possible unconstitutionality, then I believe that such costs are not justified. I may be overstepping the role of the rapporteur, but perhaps it should be said from my side that I believe that this is not the way that we should go within a democratic state, and perhaps the issue that is bothering a lot of citizens should be addressed in another way. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I will ask you to take the position of rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which we have six speakers registered at this point. Mr. Grebeníček is the first to be logged in, but Jiří Mihola reports with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u6	Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club is clearly opposed to the Communist bill on the referendum on the abolition of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies. KDU-ČSL has already declared many times that the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies is a closed matter for it. As a historian and university teacher who knows something, I could have a long discussion on this matter and on this issue. But I won't do it. The very fact that property settlements with churches and religious societies, and thus some injustices in the past only occurred after an incredible 21 years since the Velvet Revolution, seems really embarrassing to me. Either we want justice for all, and then what has been stolen must be returned, or we can question it and give room for injustice and legal chaos to prevail in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u7	Good evening, dear colleagues. I thank the President of the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club and another member is Mr Miroslav Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was not so long ago that Pope František dealt with the Czech and Moravian Catholic prelates. Allegedly also about the illegal property claims of the Catholic Church against Czech citizens and against the Czech state. According to Cardinal Duka for Czech Television, the svatý otec said clearly that according to the law what was stolen from the churches should be returned to them. Cardinal Duka added: "Or is there no more principle of justice in Czechoslovakia? " This was a great debate by the Pope, who stressed the need for justice. From the above interpretation of the Vatican negotiations, it is twofold. Either Cardinal Duka and the Czech and Moravian prelates of the old humble Pope František simply did not inform him truthfully, or they put in his mouth what he probably did not say. Or maybe the Pope's media presented human honesty and social perceptive powers are merely purposeful. So far, I'm leaning toward those who suspect that Cardinal Duka and the Czech and Moravian prelates are incorrect. The svatý otec's statement of November last year can also be documented here. "Today everything is at the mercy of the competition and the law of the stronger," I quote his words, "where the mighty devour the weaker. As a result of this situation, huge masses of population are eliminated and marginalized, without work, without prospects, without exits. There is new, invisible, sometimes virtual tyranny that unilaterally and relentlessly dictates its laws and its rules. In addition to all this, the branched corruption and the egotistical tax evasion that took on global dimensions are increasing. In this sense, I encourage financial experts and governments of different countries," says Pope František, "to take account of the words of an ancient sage: Not sharing with the poor of own property, it is to rob them and take away their lives. The property we own is not ours. It belongs to them." Pope František is also openly discussing the triestial circumstances of curry, the corrupt current within the Vatican, as well as the powerful Vatican homosexual lobby. A great deal of evil blood has been made by the svatý otec in the Institute for Faith Affairs, more known as the Vatican Bank. This financial institution faces the suspicion that it had a significant share in money laundering and that some influential persons were hiding income from tax. This, however, is a very courageous step in trying to bring light into the work of a bank that manages the money of the Vatican and Catholic organizations around the world. Many church dignitaries, however, do not applaud Pope František. The temptation of life in prosperity and the exploitation of material advantages miles away from the everyday reality of the vast majority of believers is unbelievable. Thus, it seems that Czech and Moravian prelates, in addition to the devastation of the authority of churches in the eyes of Czech society and honest believers, aspire to another remarkable effect of their practices, and that is a measure of compromise and questioning the moral integrity of the svatý otec. Ladies and gentlemen, Bertolt Brecht, an artist of the world name, often spoke of the pleasure of transforming things. "Today's world can only be described to people today," I quote his words, "if we describe it as a world that can be changed." This lifelong stand by Brecht Brecht is still a major challenge today. I am thinking of the possibility of transforming the conditions arising from the irresponsibleness of power-holders, when social rights and democratic transformations are constantly being reduced. I am referring to the possibility of changing those conditions which cannot be called anything other than bad. Yes, I tend to build an effective state where no one would parasite. What is crucial and decisive for me in the proposal of a group of Members for a referendum on the amendment of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies is the level of support from the state and the degree of financial participation of the majority of the lay public in the material support of believers citizens and their religious, economic, political and other institutions. So I am far from denying to sincerely believing Czech citizens who respect the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the Constitution in force, their faith, whatever religious religion they may be. I also grant believers and their organisations the right to certain public support, while I advocate the care of the state for cultural monuments and values associated with the activities of the churches and serve to satisfy the legitimate needs of believers of all religions. Therefore, I do not question the right to freedom of religion, which is also based on the fact that many believers make a significant contribution to the construction of our society, and I do not want to question the fact that there has been a strong tension in the past and, after February 1948, a fatal conflict between the Roman Catholic Clergy and the Vatican with the Czechoslovak state, when, among other things, state power has committed in order to exclude political ambitions, particularly the Roman Catholic Church, inexcusable injustices against churches and orders, including unlawful action against believers, priests and religious people. [[18.10 hours]] No, I don't want to stylize myself as a zealous actor of historical fencing, just to remind you that it is already part of the scars on the face of history, that one's misfortune brings benefits and benefits to another. Unfortunately, nothing confirms that one without the other may be possible. So, on the one hand, the citizens of our republic who died so poor that they were not left for their own funeral, and on the other hand, the Nečasův government coalition decided billions in favour of church prelates, at a time when almost every tenth Čech, including children and seniors, is already in the income poverty band, according to statistics, with the number of executions and personal bankruptcys growing hand in hand. More than 20 years ago, when asked about the return of the alleged church property, Dominik Duka said: "No, it would kill us. " Today, however, the primas of Bohemia probably no longer thinks that the donations of the Nečasův government coalition in the form of church restitutions, nota bene calculated by the eye of Kašparův's cow, the Catholic Church in some way damaged. He even slyly conceals the fact that erudite lawyers and other experts repeatedly point to the fact that churches ask for what was never theirs. The idealization of so-called church restitutions by the purposeful slogan "what the Communists stole must be returned" was very soon refuted, even due to the Brotherly Unity of Baptists, who did not allow themselves to be corrupted by the Catholic Church and kept silent, or the sum of 228 million, she refused to claim it because she did not lose anything during the so-called communism. No, it is not merely an elimination of the injustices caused by the pre-November or earlier regime. This is an intervention in changes already made by Josef II. It is a measure against the first land reform and against the fundamental principles formulated by Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk in the famous Washington Declaration. Mr. Cardinal didn't just get gifts, many of the restitutions came back from the stolen one. The problem, of course, is that I quote Bishop of the Church of Czechoslovak Hussite Jana Šilerová, "that not only the Communists stole from the church, but also the church came to property, politely said, in an unclean way." No, I'm not going to ask Cardinal Duka to compensate for the crusades and for the violent cowardly recatholization. But if, contrary to the Bible's command for modesty, the Roman Catholic Church took much of it and forced it out of the submitted ones, from the people in distress and need, it would be humble today. Instead of humility, however, church prelates openly tell the Czech state and the people: "The crisis of non-crisis, pay and give. We want land, woods and money, and now, whatever happens." All the more I appreciate the exceptions that confirm the rule. The already mentioned bishop Jana Šilerová, who repeatedly opposed the wording of the Act on restitution, against the total amount of money and against bribes for non-Catholic churches, also resents the fact that the treaty between churches and the state was not first conducted in dialogue with the general public. No, it wasn't. "And why would the public need that? We are dealing with the government, with Parliament. This is a competent authority," said Cardinal Miloslav vlk, responding to the opposition's efforts to push the referendum on the matter. I want to believe that the current Chamber of Deputies is, after all, a little different from her predecessor. However, I note that, as has been said here today, the people don't want to hear about any interference with church restitution. As part of a government coalition, however, they should at least realize that if there is no money to raise pensions, to make decent contributions to children, to active employment policy, to invest, so giving now an incredibly large financial compensation to churches is an extraordinary gamble with public finances. Before the elections I had to answer some people - I quote in this context one of the prominent Czech Party's social democratic and Senate President Milan Štěch - who responded to the Communists' statement that there would be a referendum on religious restitution. "Yes, whatever it is, but we have to say the same thing, b), what about the referendum." Milan Štěch also reminds us that, according to serious surveys, 81 percent of our citizens today want to completely abolish church restitution. He added: "Every little informed person knows that the church protagonists and the former government coalition have done this very cunningly. I consider this a big problem," says the head of the Senate. "If lawyers come and say it can be overcome, I believe that the entire leadership of social democracy will be in favour." What can I say? Perhaps only that any law adopted by Parliament can be amended by a new law. And if anyone argues the impossibility of a change already adopted by the law, I would like to remind you that, for example, Law No. 403/1990 Coll., on the mitigation of the consequences of some property injustices, was amended only in the year of its adoption twice and in the following years then eight times. Thus, the previous legislature cannot bind the future legislature. This also applies to the law on religious restitution. Therefore, according to the respected professor of constitutional law and state science Václav Pavlíček, it is quite appropriate to return to that law. And he is still convinced that we can return to the idea of issuing a referendum law on the amendment of the property settlement law with churches and religious societies. Among other things, it is because 81 percent of our fellow citizens wish this, who are bothered by the fact that church bodies not only drive the state, but also the regions, municipalities and even private persons to the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u9	Another enrollment is Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u10	Mr President, a honourable member of the government, my fellow Members, I would still understand if the Act on the referendum on the abolition of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies had been tabled by one of the other political parties. But that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, whose predecessor KSČ confiscated all the published church property, was a great audacity. [[Dissenting voices from the left.]] If so, ladies and gentlemen from the left, you want a referendum, why didn't you use it to confiscate the property of the Church and the others in 1948 and when the Allied troops arrived in Czechoslovakia in 1968? At the time, your predecessors and some of you didn't ask whether or not the citizens wanted it. It must be made clear to the public that the property to be returned to the churches belonged historically to them before being confiscated and that the churches, if they ask for the property, must prove ownership of these assets. And where there are doubts about ownership, an independent court will decide who the property belongs to. [[18.20 hours]] The public can also be explained by the reasons for financial settlement with the churches. In more than 60 years, when the state owned the property of the churches, the state gained a lot of funding from their use, which was lost by the churches. A number of properties belonging to the churches are now irretrievably stolen. The total amount of compensation is about 59 billion. Crowns that the Church gradually receives within 30 years. For 17 years - nowadays it is no longer 17 years - the church will still receive 1.4 billion for its operation. CZK, which will be reduced by 5% each year. This amount was received by the churches for their operation from the state and in the past. After 2030, the churches will receive only an aliquota part of the financial compensation for unissued property up to 2042. Dealing with the churches was a great debt of political governments to the churches. None of the previous governments had the courage to do so because they were concerned about the loss of voters. The settlement with the churches was to take place at the same time in the early 1990's as a return of property to all other owners to whom the Communists confiscated property, and probably no one would question it. But there was no political will or courage. It was only the government of Mr. Petr Nečas that decided to do so and, of course, because of the strong anti-church mood caused by some policies that brought on a huge wave of criticism. Human envy is infinite and indestructible. And scaring people that the church's acquired property will be stolen, as we often hear here, is the only big argument of criticism of church restitution and even unfounded. Yes, I do not pretend that one of the church representatives can resist temptation and try to gain some advantage for his person. Even other property managers in the past and in the past often resisted that temptation. However, I am convinced that, like most citizens, the vast majority of church officials are honest and decent and that they will take care of the acquired property with a great responsibility to a good economy. Moreover, the control mechanisms by the Church, the State, or the public will not allow property derived from restitution to be treated differently from those for the benefit of the Church and society. Among other things, thanks to profits from the administration of their property, the churches will focus on the care of the poor, the sick, the education of people, etc. As an example, I will mention the Benedictbeuern monastery near Benedictbeuern in Bavaria, which we visited last year, when six monks in the monastery give work to 200 people, cook lunches for more than 150 homeless people in Munich and participate in the great development of tourism in the region, etc. Finally, I would also like to say that almost 25 years after the Velvet Revolution, it is clear that the churches are managing the property they own, very responsiblely, for the benefit of the entire society. The Church is not a material advantage for individuals, but a work for the good of the citizens of this country, even for those who declare themselves believers, but also for those who do not share this position. Restitution and the whole process of property settlement between the state and the churches are intended to enable the independent functioning of the church to the State. By being self-sufficient, churches will no longer burden the state budget. However, it is understandable that some political forces may dislike the existence of independent church communities to which the state power will not have financial leverage. After all, we remember such thinking from the tragic years of 1948 and 1968. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that you will not support this bill, and I propose rejecting it at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u11	Thank you, Mr Paver. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u12	Mr President, fellow Members and honourable Members. I have become familiar with the proposed bill and its explanatory statement. I was intrigued by the sentence in the explanatory memorandum: "The basis is to establish legal certainty regarding further treatment of state property and public funds. " By declaring a referendum, we will only find ourselves questioning legal certainty and invoking a misconception in citizens that the abolition of the law will result in some new second nationalisation of church property. Therefore, I will no longer repeat all the injustices that have been done both on citizens and on the Church, and I also propose that this bill be abolished at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u13	I thank Mr Kudel. Before I give the floor to Mr Grospič, the Vice-President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors of František Laudát came forward with the preference for the club. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments here reflecting the position of the TOP 09 and the starosta. 1. We believe that it is unacceptable for all-people referendums on foreign property to be drawn up. 2. We believe that it is not possible to question the fundamental legal certainty of any company, company or individual. Today we will question the certainty and property rights of the churches, tomorrow it will be property rights and security of a broad civil society, of individual citizens. 3. The question of settlement with churches threatens one of the pillars of civil society with a historical tradition and a broad social context. 4. We ask all political parties to stop using the topic of dealing with churches for their political and personal purposes. We ask those left-wing parties who behave in this way so that at this point and on this issue they do not generate hatred in society towards one important group of our citizens - believers. And, of course, while I think it has already been said here, in a detailed debate, I would ask all those who have left to come in order to agree on this law and reject it at first reading, which I will propose in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u15	I thank Mr Laudát and Mr Stanislav Grospič, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize that I may make a few turns in relation to the proposed bill, but I consider it very crucial. The question of property settlement with churches and religious societies is, to some extent, Evergreen in the Chamber of Deputies and reflects, I think, in its essence, the whole depth of the problems, when a significant part of the public, a large part of the public, cannot be satisfied with the fact that there has been a close majority, albeit mostly one vote, an act of property which has far-reaching consequences to the substance of the Czech state, but also binds the Czech state above the level unacceptable to public matters for institutions that have a private dimension, even in the long term, even in the legal order of Austria-Hungary, from the history of their budgets and the management of their assets, which they did not possess, but only managed or in some way was lent to them to the saturation of their costs. [[18.30 hours]] And that is the moment of conflict, when a significant part of the public, whether lay or professional, disagrees with the name of the law, which was adopted by this Chamber of Deputies in the last parliamentary term under the number 428/2012 Coll., on settlement and settlement of property with churches and other religious societies. Now, if you will allow me, we, as petitioners, propose nothing more than for people to decide in a referendum whether they agree that the Parliament of the Czech Republic abolish the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies. If such a referendum were to take place, the question would be a positive one, a 'yes', then the power for the Parliament of the Czech Republic to proceed ad hocly in this matter and to adopt new legislation, as the Constitutional Court also predicts in its findings, which says that this area should be covered by Parliament's activities and by legal regulation in dealing with the property claims of churches and religious societies, however, leaves the question of parliamentary sovereignty on how. In this context, I would like to say, here is often the moment that property has been taken from the churches, and the churches have suffered for a considerable time and have not been saturated in any way, have been without income, have been exposed to the question of the state's mercy or grace. So for comparison, I would like to say that in 1948 the total cost of churches and religious societies amounted to CZK 274 billion 612 million. In 1949 it was 313 billion 644 million, in 1950 it formed almost one million (?) before monetary reform. 53 billion. And I would like to say that, following monetary reform, these costs have fallen to 73 billion, but this figure is subsequently increasing again, and in 1990 it accounted for 56 billion of the costs involved in saturating the activities of church and religious societies. So it is not true that economic or other activities of churches and religious societies and clergy would not be ensured in this context. In this context, I would also like to say that it is therefore a legitimate question of calling for a re-evaluation of the law adopted so far. And because this law also passed through the Constitutional Court's assessment, we chose the way for this matter to be first decided by the Supreme Sovereign, as permitted by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and thus by the national referendum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u17	Thank you, Mr Grospič. Another duly registered member is Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, the bill on the referendum on the repeal of Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies, is not a good proposal, in my opinion, because I cannot imagine the way in which property will not be issued to churches. I would like to remind you that it was the Czech Social Democratic Party that lodged a constitutional complaint with its senators. However, the founding of the Constitutional Court number 10/2013 of 29 May 2013 in addition to the release of one word in Section 5 did not proceed to the repeal of this law, even though the President of the Constitutional Court Pavel Rychetský or the Constitutional Judge Jan Musil drew attention to the infringement of the legislative procedure in approving the bill, when the approval was pending the fact that the former government coalition had enough votes. And once again, the departure of three ODS Members was replaced by more loyal ones, and after the collapse of the Public Things was created by the people. As a Democrat, I respect the Constitutional Court's decision, although I disagree with it. I would like to say to the petitioners and supporters of the bill that if law 428/2012 Coll. were to be repealed, contracts between the Czech Republic and representatives of sixteen churches and religious societies would apply anyway. These contracts are effective on the date of their signature and the repeal of the law in the proposed referendum will not affect their validity and effectiveness. After all, these contracts contain, inter alia, provisions that the obligation to pay a financial compensation cannot go away without the agreement of the Contracting Parties except by fulfilling it. So there is no solution without consent and agreement with the churches. The Czech Social Democratic Party is also aware of this, which does not want to arouse undue public expectations. However, honourable Members, this does not mean that it is not possible to act. The Social Democrats are preparing a bill that will allow for the extension of the time limits for the decision of the state authorities to issue property to churches. The reason for this is to provide sufficient space for state institutions to verify the legitimacy of the property they issue, and also to give the churches time to avoid having to deal with the issue of property by judicial proceedings. Here, I'd like to remind you of the earlier case of the Orchids. Furthermore, the government coalition began negotiations directly with churches, in which it proposes, among other things, a reduction in monetary compensation. He intends to remove the inflation clause, and by agreement with the churches, he wants to secure the money cover in the form of government bonds. But there are other options that can be used in dealing with churches, whether one-off taxation of property income from the first transfer. We know well that the long-standing problem of the still unrated state treaty with the Vatican must be resolved. It is possible to contact Pope František directly with a request to broker a new agreement between the state and the churches. Dear colleagues, for Pope František himself said very soon after his establishment - I quote: "I prefer a church that is banged, wounded and dirty, because it operates out on the streets, before a church that is sick, because it is closed to the world and only interested in its own security. " That is why I am personally sorry that the Church did not realise that its demands go against the views of most citizens of our country. I want to assure the general public that the Czech Social Democratic Party will strive to ensure that the settlement with the churches takes place transparently, fairly and according to the laws of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u19	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Another duly signed is Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'm not gonna repeat everything that's already been said here. It is true that it is not possible to violate the rule of law. There's been a lot of talk about that here. And the settlement of the state with the churches is essentially useful especially for the state. This needs to be realized that there will be an unblocking of land that has been blocked for a long time. Furthermore, the amount of the clergy' salaries will be gradually reduced until these salaries are paid to the churches within seventeen years. Church management will not be so easy and the church will certainly not be rich after this settlement. But here we have heard from some of the pastors what the svatý otec thinks. His integrity was often questioned here. It was said here what the svatý otec might have in mind and what would look good on the church as well. And I would like to repeat here what I said in the last Chamber of Deputies, when we have been dealing with this matter for hours and nights and this House press. I was very surprised to see how against the church and the believers, what hatred and attacks appeared here. But when we think about why that is, the explanation is basically clear. Because the church raises free people. And the Church raises people to freedom, and the Church recognizes the dignity of every man. And that's exactly what matters, because single people are able to resist any form of totalitarianism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u21	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Another duly registered member is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Written registration takes precedence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u22	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I did not initially assume that I would perform here in this debate, but some of the things that have been said have led me to do so. In the first place, I was a little surprised that probably those who discussed and those who followed the opening words of the petitioner probably did not register that there was a bit of a change in what they were proposing and what they were proposing and that they did not respond to this and did not notice it, which surprised me a little bit from the rapporteur of this proposal. It was said here by my colleague Sed - he mentioned that he was going to submit a proposal for legal regulation, which should address the issue of extradition. I would like to quote this, and I would like to support this proposal, or this proposal in general, I would like to quote here what I have from the State Land Office, from the first Deputy Director of the Central . Veronika Nedvědová, in response to the questions I sent. I quote from the answer: Extraordinaryly demanding and search for documents in archives, further to too short deadlines to conclude agreements and administrative decisions, and last but not least to personnel undersizes will probably be more and more often - meaning the State Land Office - to get into trouble with compliance with the statutory deadlines. Here we see that the directly entrusted institution, the State Land Office, has also stated in writing that it has serious concerns that it will not be able to properly, without pressure, without pressure, and therefore probably without errors to respond to the requests made. The proposal that has been made here today that the deadline for the decision to issue these church claims should be extended should be extended, I consider it very correct. I would also like to respond to what was said from my colleague Pavera's mouth, who said that the previous governments were reluctant to make this settlement with the churches because they would lose their voters. That seems really funny to me, because the voters just lost those parties that pushed this so-called restitution law against the will of the citizens mostly one vote. Well, that seemed really funny to me, this message. Furthermore, I would like to say that why we are talking about this here again today, and why this problem is being dealt with repeatedly and repeatedly, is merely a demonstration of how this is going, when the Chamber of Deputies decides in the interests of a group and not in the interests of most citizens, and here I would like to say the overwhelming majority of citizens, above 80 per cent, who do not agree with church restitution, but do not agree with that form of restitution. And today we're dealing with the consequences of what the last House did here, that it literally pushed through the House something that didn't support the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u23	I thank Mr Fiedler. I'll ask Mr. Benešík. The rapporteur came forward with the priority right with a technical remark. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u24	I'm really just a technical remark to return the discussion to the level where it belongs. With all due respect for our colleague - we are addressing the question of referendum and how to address this situation by referendum. I had specific arguments about why I had reasonable doubts about the constitutionality of this procedure. There has been no change in the House press. I, as rapporteur, must comment on the House's press in the form it came into. So let's focus on talking about a referendum that would say either "yes" or "no" so that the Chamber of Deputies will abolish the law on property settlement with churches. I understand the comments, I understand the technical shortcomings at the land office or in the Forests of the Czech Republic, but this is not the subject of this meeting. We must address this problem as Members in another way, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u25	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are talking about a referendum and please only talk about a referendum, not among ourselves, to listen to the speakers. Now, please, Mr Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I go into business - we could not help but notice that the svatý otec František has a new spokesperson who can interpret his thoughts. Now for the proposal. This proposal of the KSČM is de facto nothing more than an election campaign for the cost of the state of at least half a billion crowns. For so many self-preservers, the costs of the referendum are estimated. This is the basic point of view that can't be left behind when you're commenting. And now for the individualities. Article 1 of this proposal. In fact, this is an indirect amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in particular Article 11, according to which everyone has the right to own property and according to which the ownership of all owners has the same legal content and protection. Act No. 428/2012 is in accordance with the Constitution, as it returns, and to a very narrow extent, what the churches owned before it came to power in February 1948 by the KSČ. In fact, the law must be combined with Article 16 of the Charter when, on the one hand, it returns to the churches a material basis for the activity envisaged for it, also in Article 16 of the Charter. Several functions then have cash transactions in the amount of those mentioned around 59 billion. CZK, which will be paid for 30 years. This amount constitutes, on the one hand, compensation for non-refundable real estate and also constitutes a specific form of discharge of the State from the obligations which it has taken over by Law No. 218/1949 Coll., on Economic Security of Churches by State. According to Article 11 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the As the state fulfilled these obligations, today it is possible to find out by examining church properties: in one word devastation. The amount is 59 billion. The CZK corresponds to the state's obligation under Section 1 of the quoted Act on the provision of personal benefits by the clergy. This obligation was established here by the Communist regime after the coup in 1948. It must therefore be consistently insisted that it is not only religious restitution, but that it is property settlement with churches and religious companies for futuro. In Article 3 of the proposal, the opportunity to repeat the referendum -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u27	I will ask the honourable House to calm down and listen to Mr. Benešík. Please, who has any other topic of discussion to leave this hall. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u28	Thank you, too. The opportunity to repeat the referendum. A repeated referendum is just a trick. This is clearly blackmail in case the referendum fails. That is, if the people, as the petitioners call him in the explanatory statement, decide differently than they expect. There is another alternative, which is such a small piece of advice, that the people would eventually be replaced, and that cannot really be ruled out by the petitioners. In practice, this might mean or look like a vote in North Korea, and this referendum would be binding in the Czech Republic. The reference to referendums in other countries is misleading because a referendum is proposed on one single question and only in relation to churches and religious societies. The selection of certain private entities whose property right is to be the subject of a referendum is clearly contrary to the prohibition of discrimination, in particular Article 11 of the Charter. [[18.50 hours]] Article 5 of this proposal. Law No 428/2012 Sb. passed the constitutional test and is consistent with constitutional order. The delay in its adoption was also a matter of criticism by the Constitutional Court. In this context it is possible to refer e.g. in the Plenary Opinion of the Constitutional Court 22/05, which states, inter alia, that - I quote: "The State must, of course, fulfil its obligation to issue a restitution law, as it must meet legitimate expectations on the part of church legal entities that rely on legal provisions." The rights which the churches have acquired by Law No. 428/2012 Coll., do not fall within the sphere of public administration and is therefore a reference to Art. 21 Charters totally odd. It cannot be deduced from this article of the Charter that the rights of a particular group of entities, particularly in a situation where they form a minority, are subject to the dictatorship of the majority, because they would clearly be discrimination. However, it is typical for communists that churches and especially Catholic churches often choose to discriminate. They know this well, they know it well, and they know why the churches are the target of their hatred. I also have to respond to the part of the justification of the proposal where it is stated that - I quote: "It is not possible to agree with the argument that any litigation that would arise in the event of the abolition of the property settlement law with churches and religious companies would ultimately be more expensive than the proposed settlement. This argument is not substantiated. On the contrary, in this context, there is a question of why such opportunities have not been used by churches and religious societies long ago." They're asking the petitioners. We will find the answer to this in the findings of the Constitutional Court. In view of the existence of legitimate expectations, this is the expectation that the State will fulfil its obligation to mitigate property injustices to churches and church legal entities that arose during the period of totalitarianism, i.e. During the period of Bolshevik action in 1948 to 1989, the Constitutional Court was restrained by the question of the use of determining actions. So if the petitioners want to know why churches and religious societies had not used such opportunities long ago, the answer is: because they were modest and waited for the State to fulfil its commitment voluntarily. In 2010, the Plenary Judgment of the Constitutional Court stated that the failure of this Chamber of Deputies to act on the issue of religious restitution was unconstitutional. On the basis of this plenary finding, the Constitutional Court later began to issue property to church legal persons. Particularly interesting, especially for colleagues from the ČSSD, should be a reference to part of the reasoning of the Constitutional Court of 492/98, which describes the situation in which the property of the churches was stolen, but not only theirs. This side has become the same victim. I quote: "In these intensities, the Czechoslovak Social Democratic Party and the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, which, especially after a power twist in the state in February 1948, did not hinder anything in the practical implementation of the so-called. the unity of the working people with all the well-known consequences resulting from their ideology and political intentions. [[The president is ringing the bell to calm the room.]] For the Czechoslovak Social Democratic Party, this meant not only the end of its independent political activity on the territory of the Czechoslovak State, but also, certainly not to a negligible extent, also the sanctions of its membership, persecution and repression of state power, as there is sufficient evidence of this, among other things, of a long series of political processes, including processes with the last President of Czech Social Democracy, Laušman. This shall be a memento." Ladies and gentlemen, I am making a motion to reject this draft constitutional law at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u29	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Another duly signed up is Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the TOP 09 and the ODS, I propose that we discuss this point on a territorial basis and vote after 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u31	This is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on Mr Laudát's procedural proposal to vote on this point in terms of both territorial and procedural terms after 19 o'clock. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Of the 177 Members in vote number 22 for 79, against 61. This proposal has not been adopted. Another point of fact - President of the Civic Democratic Party MEP Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u32	Vice-President, right to you. Try looking to the right when you're in charge of the meeting. I was knocking, and I wanted to unsubscribe the MPs. You didn't comply. I really consider this a violation of the customs that are happening here. So I propose a re-vote, and before that, I'd like to ask for an adjournment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u33	Okay, I consider it an objection to the vote. I will put this objection to the vote, but first I will withdraw you as required. Please sign up with your voting cards. I hereby initiate the vote on the opposition of the President of the ODS. Whoever is in favour of accepting this objection, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 23, registered 160, for 101, against 30. Objection received. We will therefore repeat the vote on Mr Laudát's procedural proposal to vote on this point in a procedural and territorial manner after 19 o'clock. I am opening the vote on this procedural proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 24, registered 162, for 79, against 70. This proposal was rejected. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. I don't see any logged in here. Please, Mr. Polčák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u34	Mr Vice-President, I dare to call into question the vote that we have just been through, because I have a cross on high, but I have voted yes. I therefore question the vote, I object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u35	So this vote has been called into question. I am opening the vote on this objection. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Whoever is in favour of accepting Mr Polčák's objection should raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 25 vote, 164 logged in, for 100, against 21. Objection received. We will therefore repeat, for the third time, the vote on Mr Laudát's procedural proposal to vote on this issue after 19 o'clock. I am opening the vote on Mr Laudát's procedural proposal. Who's in favour of voting after 7:00 p.m., raise your hand. Who's against it? It is the vote number 26, registered by 164 Members of Parliament, for 87, against 56, this proposal has been adopted. [[Noise and screams on the right.]] I'd say it's 6:59 at the last minute. And we will continue the debate on this point. I ask who else is reporting to the debate on the constitutional bill on referendums. I do not see any other logged in, which is why I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the rapporteur or the appellant. Mr. plaintiff, please, would you like the final word? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u36	Mr President, members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen. You're making me--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u37	I, the honourable Members of the Chamber of Deputies, ask for peace of mind, to hear from the plaintiff. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u38	Thank you. To shorten my final word to a minimum. I have two options: either to deal with the ideological speeches that some have made here, although I have presented here a normal draft constitutional law without any ideological bias. Surely we will not vote on any bill in North Korea, and I ask my colleagues to avoid such stupidities. It's not worthy of this body. I have one advantage - or a disadvantage. As a young starting Member of the Federal Assembly, which was dissolved and released in December 1992, I was involved in negotiations on the first restitution law on the property of the churches in 1990. It is amazing that there is still no record of the 3rd meeting of the Committee on Social Policy of the Czech National Council and that it cannot be found one of the minutes of the Committee on the Plan and Budget, which I participated in as a member of the Committee on the Plan and Budget of the Federal Assembly, the House of the People, where it has been confirmed what no one can find today and what some church dignitaries are accusing me of, that it should have been the last property transfer between the state and the churches that the then Czech and Slovak Federal Republic did. I could quote a former fellow Member of the Federal Assembly, Dana Němcová, whom no one would suspect that she may have based ideas such as Marxist-Lenin philosophy. I don't think that's gonna work. So please allow me to say a few fundamental facts. Yes, after 1948, the then government of the Czechoslovak Republic respected the international treaty negotiated between 1925 and 1929 by President Masaryk and Minister of Foreign Affairs Edvard Beneš. Yes, modus vivendi came into force for the first republic and then - as you call communist - power in 1948, respectively. 1949, it adopted not the law, but the decree of the government, which protected the economic churches. My colleague Stanislav Grospič has presented you with at least part of the funds spent on the churches. No one is questioning, and my colleague Grebeníček here said this, how excesses occurred, the crimes they questioned, specifically questioning the procedure that was under the law. No one doubts that such excesses should have been straightened out. But please don't say this, but really don't say that there's going to be some sort of settlement here that will compensate for what was taken after 1948. I would have to laugh really hard, because you would forget about the reform of Josef II, the removal of all property, you would forget about what happened after 1919, what happened in 1945, in 1947. In this respect, I would like to say quite clearly that all the principles of the construction of the modern Czechoslovak State and since 1993 of the Czech State have been based on the fact that, if it comes to restitution, it will only be the restitution of natural persons. The exception was made for the Jewish community still in 1995, by other Members of this legislature, no longer the Czech National Council, but the only Parliament of the Czech Republic, i.e. the Chamber of Deputies without the Senate. And now we have a standard that restitutions legal entities not based in the Czech Republic. They are registered here, but their property is based on the corpus iuris canonica - let me say that I have been dealing with this for a long time - elsewhere. I negotiated for municipalities in the 1990s e.g. with the help of the midadar contract with the Order established in Upper Brod, which he handed over under the contract of the future municipality of Březí land on which the houses are built today, and I wonder if this order will request or ask for these land or their financial compensation because it has been paid on the basis of that midadar. Don't tell me, at least those of you who were here at the time, that you didn't know anything about it. And what is the problem with the law that has been passed? That the Czech Republic compensates legal persons. Can you imagine, can any of you imagine what would have happened if the assets of legal entities were to be restitutiond after 1990? What things, not property, would we get into, but what international legal problems would the Czech Republic get into? Because of how much money and resources and legal services had to be spent to compensate for, for example. Czechoslovak-Austrian relations in 1973. It cost the then Czechoslovak Socialist Republic 3.5 billion Czechoslovak crowns. Therefore, no claim for restitution, which was from Austria, should be satisfied, because the Czechoslovak-Austrian settlement, because Austria was never an attacking state, was finally settled. So how much review of the restitution claims that were applied here after 1990 would have to be discussed. If you're in the mood, we can talk about it here. Till late tonight. And as far as legal entities are concerned. Churches are the first legal entities. Look at how legal entities, joint stock companies, limited liability companies that were expropriated not only on the basis of the President's decrees after 1945 but which were expropriated after 1948 would be compensated. Why did no Czechoslovak government ever agree to this? Because we would have to look at how much money from the gold treasure of Czechoslovakia remained abroad because we never got paid for the war reparations from Germany, especially because there were two German states. And I don't think some need to do this foreign policy excursion, because that's just the way it is, and no one had a chance at that time, nor was there an international will for it. Remember the meeting of our Minister of Foreign Affairs, which basically during the meeting of 2 + 4, i.e. The negotiations of two German states and four states of the former anti-Hitler coalition allies negotiated on how war reparations would or would not apply. The only person who applied in negotiations 2 + 4 for his property claims and for not questioning his own borders was severely affected by the Second World War of Poland. It also has guaranteed other options than the Czech Republic. Because the Czech Republic only secured them by the fact that then Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic Jan Kavan asked the winning powers long after this conference took place to confirm the validity of the Potsdam agreements. In this respect, therefore, I draw attention to the fact that the amendment to this law is important precisely so that it cannot happen that they apply for restitution of a legal person and we will have to deal with war reparations against neighbouring Germany, which I do not really want, we will have to deal with how it was handled by currency gold not until 1989, but especially after 1989, how much of it remained in which state. If you're in the mood, and if the Foreign Minister who's absent here is willing to negotiate, I'm in. Feel free to insist that this law can remain unchanged. [[19.10 hours]] I understand very well, I understand very well that the separation of the church from the state is very important. The most important thing is for the Catholic Church. Because we would have to pay the priests, for example, according to the old laws, especially the government regulation of 1949. Muslim churches and other churches that are not domestic on this land. So I understand very well what happened. And I respect both the law and the Constitutional Court's finding, even if I disagree with it. I respect him. That is why I have tabled this referendum law with my fellow Members, and I ask you to study for example. materials from the Faculty of Economics of the University of Economics, 2007, where the first amounts were given on how to balance or not to match the assets. No one doubts that the separation of the church from the state - and the less me - requires that individual churches in their own way begin to farm separately. I could also populistly shout here that the request for separation of the church from the state was made under a petition by 70,000 people in 1988 and that it was a grave mistake of then political power in 1988 that the church did not make such separation from the state - we would certainly not have such a problem at the moment. But I don't think any of you who've been hoarding here to comply with this law would be for that at this point. Now let me get back to the matter. Yes, the law needs to be changed. And we're going to have to do that at one point. Because the moment the separation of the Church from the state is carried out - and the law on the settlement of the property of churches and religious societies is founded, and I have no problem with the paragraph - any payment under the agreement that Petr Nečas and his government concluded quickly with churches and religious societies will become an anti-European standard, which will simply be contested by the European Court of Justice, because it will be essentially an unauthorized subsidy, or if you want unauthorized support, as it sounds exactly this economic model, from the point of view of the fact that we are paying private entities out of public money. And I'm sure President Kalousek is holding his head because he knows exactly what I'm talking about. [[Laughs especially from the right.]] Because illegal support is a thing he knows well, and he has discussed it several times in Brussels. [[Noise on the right.]] So in this respect, I would like to say that if we do not make this change on the basis of a referendum, we can do it without a referendum by decision of this legislature. If you have the guts to do it, or if you don't have the guts to do it, it's up to you. I could talk about some of the performances that were here. I'd like to remind myself of them. The exception to the proposal is that the settlement negotiations, as the Constitutional Court says, have not been held for a long time. Please read in detail the Constitutional Court finding. Yes, because the property was not released in Section 28 of Law No. 228/1991 Coll. Restitution paragraphs for municipalities have not been amended. Yes, I was there when, at 2:00 a.m., the meeting of the Federal Assembly was interrupted for the introduction of Section 28 into Law 228 and the restitution clause was inserted into the Municipalities Act. In this respect, I note that there really was no courage to do a restitution period. And we designed it in 1998. As far as legitimate expectations are concerned. But public support cannot be a legitimate expectation. And those treaties will indeed contradict European law. What about the contracts? Yes, change. Because the law will change. If something comes from the law and the law ceases to support the treaty, the treaty will have to be revised, as all the contracts we have are being reworked, e.g. By changing the Civil Code. Aren't we talking about buying out the property of building owners or not the other way around? Isn't there going to be any negotiations between individual owners on the basis of the new law? But there will be action. Of course. And then the point is that my colleague Kudela blames me for the fact that the explanatory memorandum says - the legal certainty of the state's assets. Yes, it is the legal certainty of the state's assets. Because there is a question about the ownership of the Czech Republic, which was transferred from the Czechoslovak Republic to the state after the creation of the Czechoslovak Republic, because it was founded e.g. it was the decision of the first land reform. Do you want specific examples? I'll show you. Including decisions of the Constitutional Court. For example, when the property of the Schwarzenberg family was paid for by the deep branch in the village of Češnovice. I have a decision as a lawyer from 1994, 1995 and a Constitutional Court from 1997, I think, so I'll find it for sure. So, yes, it is also about the property nature of the Czech Republic. Then my colleague Laudát gave an interesting consideration. It is not possible to hold a referendum on foreign property. We don't hold a referendum on foreign property. It's a referendum on whether the law should apply, not to pay if it should change. And I'm sorry, every tax decision we make changes in the property situation of either the poor or the rich, and of course we touch their property. I am a great supporter of one of the fundamental human rights, and that is the right to development. How many times do we take the right to develop to those we haven't given a chance to work at all? You think all 600,000 unemployed don't really want to work? I am of the opposite opinion. So, as far as the major reservations are concerned, I would say that if we do not want to be immoral towards all the other restitutional entities, the natural persons who have been treated in a much harder way than the churches and religious societies, then we should change that law. It is up to you whether we help each other with the referendum law and write it down, or whether we do it ourselves by our will or by the economic circumstances of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u39	I thank the plaintiff for his final word. I'm asking the rapporteur if he wants the final word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u40	Thank you. I didn't want to take my word for it anymore, but maybe in some way I can calm it down and shut it down. I am not hiding that I personally have reservations about the way in which the law on property settlements with churches was adopted. I have reservations about the content of the law, I have reservations about the valuation of assets, the compensation paid, the inflation clause. However, we are gathered here to vote on the referendum. And I must say, in principle, I do not like the idea that any law adopted by this House should then be broken on the basis of a re- referenda. It really feels like a major intervention in the legal certainty of citizens, of all of us sitting here. So I'm talking about a fundamental question in fact, and I'm talking about a really rational consideration of the unconstitutional nature of this process. And I am glad that here in the final speech of the plaintiff, the petitioner, it was said that the law could be changed both with a referendum and without a referendum. There's a legitimate discussion or some legal changes. That is why we have the Chamber of Deputies. However, thus a referendum worth half a billion crowns is to consider whether we want something like this at all. So I'd just like to put that in principle at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-007-010.u41	I thank the rapporteur for his final words, and I am now registering the motion to reject this proposal tabled by Mr Ondřej Benešík. I'm registering an application for withdrawal before I vote, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I am voting on the motion to reject this proposal. Initiating vote on the motion to dismiss. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 27; 162 Members and Members are registered, for 87, against 56. This proposal was adopted. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] That concludes the discussion of this proposal, and I also interrupt today's meeting. Sorry, we still have a vote check. I'm sorry. [[After a brief break.]] It's okay, so I'm interrupting today's House of Deputies meeting and this meeting by 9:00 tomorrow morning. Have a good evening, everyone.
