ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and other related laws /German press 351/ - first reading I will ask that, under the authority of the Government, the proposal put forward by the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Jan Mládek. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is submitting a proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act for discussion. It is an extensive amendment to the law, which also includes proposals for the regulation of other related laws. In particular, it is Law No. 165/2012 Coll., on Supported Energy Resources, which is factually very closely linked to the Energy Act. Furthermore, we propose to amend Act No. 406/2000 Coll., on energy management, into which the relevant provisions relating to the State Energy Inspection should be newly included. It is also proposed to amend Act No. 261/2007 Coll., on the stabilisation of public budgets, from which we propose that the provisions on exemption from electricity tax be deleted. The amendment also concerns Act No. 189/1999 Coll., on the emergency stocks of oil, and other laws that are related to the legislation now mentioned. [[There's noise in the room.]] It is already clear from this list that it is not a simple draft and that it is interlinked legal regulations. This comprehensive proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act was triggered in particular by the need to transpose directives and adapt European Union regulations on energy efficiency, trans-European energy networks, transparency in wholesale energy markets, as well as the need to respond to the European Commission's complaints against the Czech Republic concerning the lack of transposition of Directive 2006/32/EC on end-use energy efficiency and energy services, in the field of electricity and heating. Furthermore, the European Commission's notification decision on the compatibility of support for electricity from renewable sources with the European Union's public support rules was an impulse to amend the Act on Supported Energy Resources. In this decision, the European Commission sets out the conditions that we must respect. This Decision has been reflected in the proposal submitted by adjusting the method for determining the payment of funds intended to promote renewable energy sources, in so far as the calculation of the amount of the payment to support renewable energy sources -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u3	I'm sorry, Minister, but I have to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down so that we understand what you're talking about. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u4	- dependent on the amount of electricity consumed shall be converted into a monthly payment for each demand point depending on its reserved input. At the same time, this change will help to correct the impact of the current payment method on the competitiveness of our economy, especially energy-intensive industry. The impact on customers with low electricity consumption, who have so far contributed to the promotion of renewable resources by small amounts, is eliminated by the measure contained in the draft Act on supported energy sources. This proposed measure means that payments by such customers to promote renewable resources should not exceed their current level in the future. It is proposed to establish the Energy Regulatory Authority Council. The proposed organisation of the Board is based on foreign experience in the organisation of regulatory bodies with the options set out in the Directive on the rules of the internal market in electricity, and on the scope and organisation of regulatory authorities in other sectors in the Czech Republic. The proposal is factually based on the scope of the Czech Telecommunications Authority's Council, enshrined in the Act on Electronic Communications. When discussing the bill, the Council and its position were subject to a detailed discussion, including the meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government. The amendment also concerns, for example, the method of setting the fee for the Energy Regulatory Authority's activities. This fee is currently laid down by law depending on the amount of electricity and gas consumed. In the context of the change in the payment for the promotion of renewable resources caused by the notification decision of the European Commission and the subsequent change in the electricity tariff structure, the fee for the ERU should be set on the same principles as the payment for the promotion of renewable energy sources, not depending on the amount of energy consumed, but in the koruna to the demand point per month. The principle that the fee is the income of the state budget of the ERU chapter does not change. The financing of the Energy Regulatory Authority should be fully covered by this fee. A number of changes to the law were brought about by the new Civil Code and the Commercial Corporations Act. The subject matter of the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources is, in particular, the implementation of certain provisions of Directive 2012/57/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, in the field of promoting high-efficiency cogeneration and in the field of high-efficiency thermal energy supply systems, and the fulfilment of the requirements arising from the Decision on the notification of Act No. 165/2012 Coll. for the European Commission in the field of the promotion of electricity from renewable sources and measures to improve the control mechanism. I would like to remind you that the bill has been gradually adapted according to the results of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, the result of a detailed discussion in the Government Legislative Council, which has been discussed in several rounds and where every item of this extensive material has been discussed in detail. The Government has discussed the draft amendment of the Energy Act on 20 October 2014 and approved it as I propose to you. The discussion and adoption of this proposal will have a positive impact on the position of the Czech Republic vis-à-vis the European Commission and on the position of our industry against its international competition. I therefore ask you to support and forward this government proposal to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, and that is Mr Milan Urban. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, this standard, energy law, is a key standard not only for companies and energy entrepreneurs, but also for Czech industry and Czech households. The Minister has outlined many details of which areas will be covered by the amendment to the Energy Act. Of course, I recommend releasing this amendment first reading to the Economic Committee. It will certainly be a fundamental negotiation in the Economic Committee, because the topics have their effects, as I said, on all areas of life. I look forward to the expert debate on the relevant economic committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I open a general debate where I record three registered with priority rights. The first is President Okamura, followed by President Fiala, followed by Vice-President Filip. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to us in Dawn above the sun that the existing energy law needs to be adapted to the needs of current practice. However, in our opinion, the bill is just another legislative asshole similar to the Civil Code or the Service Act. The whole professional public - energy, entrepreneurs, and even the Energy Regulatory Authority - agrees that it is bad. Yesterday, a seminar was held in the Chamber of Deputies by our Member of the Dawn of Olga Havlová, who was completely filled and there were very important comments. There were so many of them that I would spend more time here than I am healthy, so I will cut back on my speech and just remind you of the essentials. [[17.50 hours]] One. The law seeks to politicize the management of the Energy Regulatory Authority. Newly, there should be a board to control it, which is to be appointed by the government on a proposal from the Minister of Industry and Trade, and at the same time there are no clear specific reasons for the removal of the councilmen. Why? In their opinion, the councilmen should be easy to manipulate. Once again, as with the Service Act, this coalition government, headed by Prime Minister Sobotka, is trying to quietly eliminate independence and transfer another office to its jurisdiction. We can think about why. There is obviously a government political task that says: We must complete Temelín in order to justify it, and to justify it, we need to start increasing electricity on a political command. It will also be necessary in the near future to reconstruct grids, which are often "totally residential" today, and it will also require consumers to pay the repairs instead of those who collect profits from their use today. In other words, the government is preparing another tunnel for the citizens' wallets. The law will also immediately increase electricity to those who save the most, which is our second complaint. The conditions of the large customers will improve at the expense of the small ones. Perhaps the most serious is the upcoming change, which concerns the contribution to renewable resources. This contribution of approximately CZK 44 billion per year is now paid by electricity consumers in part in the payment for the consumption of kilowatt hours and partly from the state budget. The difference between the current calculation of the contribution and the newly proposed one appears that the contributions to subsidising renewable energy sources will not be derived from the amount of consumption but from the reserved capacity of the connection to the network. At present, all customers pay a uniform rate from the owners of the chat rooms to the steelworks. The amount of the contribution to green energy and other supported types of electricity is derived from the amount of consumption and is now CZK 495 per megawatt hour consumed. Newly, the amount of payments is to be derived from the highest measured consumption for large customers and from the power of the main circuit breaker for households and other small customers. The planned system proposed by the law will thus disadvantage consumers with lower energy consumption, i.e. typically few large and savings households. Today, ordinary households that do not use electricity for heating or water heating use two to three megawatt hours a year. Thus, they will pay between CZK 1,000 and CZK 1,500 for the supported energy sources by simple calculation. Next time, according to this proposal, the situation is supposed to look something like this: In a normal household with a 25-amper circuit breaker, they will pay CZK 1,200 regardless of the amount of energy consumed. Thus, the result of the changes can be to limit the motivation for energy savings. Another of our complaints, number three, is, and somewhere I read about it, that it is the only basis of this law, a paragraph that allows customers within 14 days to withdraw from the contract. Unfortunately, even this proposition is actually a big mess. For consumers, this means signing a disadvantageous contract, but the fact that it is disadvantageous will, of course, be found in practice only a few months after he has already lost the opportunity to withdraw from the contract. Moreover, in connection with this complaint, distributors warn against confusion because one customer may have valid contracts with several suppliers at a time. Another criticism, but this is more just a proof of the state, is that because of the resistance of the Energy Regulatory Authority, the law changed the passage that made it necessary for the Energy Regulatory Authority to ensure that energy companies are financially stable, i.e. translated in a clear way into Czech, the Energy Regulatory Authority should have taken care of private companies' profits and not being in losses. This passage really raises a number of question marks, even though it was removed from this law after the protests of the Energy Regulatory Authority, we can only guess why such a passage was even incorporated there or for whom this law is supposed to serve at least in this passage. I repeat the conclusion, perhaps already fast, that although no one wants to hear this, there is no need to increase salaries or pensions. It would be enough to make our citizens' lives cheaper or at least not expensive. All the more so, when changes lead to poorer and richer, not only through well-provoked laws. The Dawn Movement therefore proposes, and I am giving this proposal that this law should be returned to the government for work in order to meet the needs of our country and its citizens. I also add that the consumption of primary energy, just specifying, can be divided into approximately three equal parts. It's the production of heat, electricity and fuel. All of these sectors, all of these parts have huge savings potential. Savings that have negative costs in most of them and increase the competitiveness, security and stability of the economy. Not in vain, not only in Germany, Austria or Poland is one of the main objectives of the state energy concept of reducing energy consumption in terms of increasing efficiency. And they're not small numbers. By 2030 consumption is expected to decrease by up to 30 to 40 percent. And I would really like to conclude by saying that energy consumption peaked in the Czech Republic between 2006 and 2007 and has been declining slightly since then and is already at 1999 level. The final consumption of energy and heat per capita has fallen by more than 10 per cent in our country since 1999, and growth has essentially only recorded transport. So I do not understand why Pačesův' energy concept assumes that consumption will grow by tens of percent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Radim Fiala, followed by Vice-President Filip and followed by President Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Soon the Chamber of Deputies will discuss a government amendment on the terms of business in the energy sectors. In this amendment, the government applies to our legal system a number of guidelines that have come again from Brussels, and we consider this opportunity essential for the government to ask questions that interest us and which are of particular interest to our citizens. Tell me why the last application of orders from Brussels in Czech terms ended in the way that solar megatunela grew in our fields instead of agricultural production, and the entire nation still subsidizes from its pockets this murky business of a few chosen. Who and when of the country's past political leaders will be responsible for this? Why does the state energy concept and raw materials policy change so often and so fundamentally that, as a result, the Czech Republic has no concept at all in this key area of future development? When does the government intend to sit at one table with the opposition and the broad professional public and create a concept that will not be radically altered by the next government or other political guarantee? Why in 2013 the average Czech four-member family paid CZK 6,200 for the support of renewable resources, i.e. even more than German, while the total amount is 15.5 billion, not to mention that so far the German industry is free of modern energy, not ours. Czech companies even paid 22 billion for the same year. And then let's talk about some competitiveness of the Czech economy. There is still the government of Bohuslav Sobotka only briefly. It can still be hoped that major improvements will be made on key issues relating to the everyday life of our citizens soon. However, we are going to ask when the existential and operating costs for our households and companies will finally become adequate and, above all, adequate income from the Czech citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u11	Thank you. Another priority right is Vice-President Filip and President Stanjura will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the bill. I don't do this quite often when it's not exactly my field, but I have to do it this time, because I've been preparing an interview on the government's involvement with Net4Gas and its inactivity in reducing its capital for a long time. This distribution company, because the law concerns this, reduced its capital and exported from the Czech Republic the amount of funds it had collected from citizens of the Czech Republic at the cost of energy in the value of tens of billions of crowns. I consider her non-investment in the third programming period, and therefore the price of energy supplied and not investing in the gas system as a serious thing that damaged the citizens of the Czech Republic who had to pay for it, and finally the funds were exported from the Czech Republic in reducing the company's capital. It's a private company, we can't do anything else, but the government that has a representative in that company hasn't done anything. I am sorry, I have spoken to several ministers about this, and I consider this step very dangerous for the future, and therefore I have been dealing with what has happened for a long time. This law concerns five million households. It regulates both producers or regulates the functioning of electricity producers, including those dealing with renewable sources. It regulates the position of heat producers, the function of distributors and their work within the market, carriers such as Net4Gas and ČEZ, of course operators and traders. The turnover of the regulated market is about CZK 2 billion, but after the infamous things that took place here, especially during the reign of Miroslav Topolánek and Martin Bursík, we are in a situation where we spend CZK 44 billion and CZK 45 billion on the two billion of the regulated market. I therefore consider the law essential enough for us to deal seriously with it. I am considering, or I have considered, that we would return the bill to the government to recast, but that would happen to us that we would not be discussing it. I will not propose this, and I will insist that we discuss this bill in order to express our views on the various matters that are there, because the new design of regulated services, prices and types of contracts, as set out in Section 2, 19a, 50, will basically lead to a change in about five million contracts, which have no reason, only to create chaos on the market. The Energy Regulatory Authority fee and its change brings a deterioration in the current satisfactory state for all market participants. Regulatory period - is a fixed regulatory period by law, which even regulated entities do not want. That means, what's modified there is basically meaningless. It contains insufficient sanctions in relation to the regulation and the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market. It is problematic what is contained in the law when the ceiling, which has been achieved at least for 2014, suddenly does not pay and we do not know where the price of energy from renewable sources would have gone if it had not been the ceiling, because the value of the state subsidy at least now has been reduced or at least not maintained, could not have increased. That, in my opinion, is a pretty crucial matter. It even concerns our commitments to the European Commission and the notification decision. overcompensation of public support, which is primarily in the interests of energy market participants. Here I see other things that need to be dealt with. I think it must be noted that the establishment of the Energy Regulatory Authority Council is also problematic. Now, I'm not going to say any reservations that the Regulatory Authority may have on its own, but I'm going to say the reservations that this House should have on its own. I didn't support the Service Act here. You have even decided to overrule the President's veto on this law. For this law to apply on January 1st, you will cancel what is dealt with in that law. I feel like the left hand doesn't know what the right hand does. Well, then, someday, you can agree on what's going to happen to the government here. Whether we want this office to be independent or if we want to have it under our control. But then, in that case, you couldn't put in the Service Act things that were related to the Energy Regulatory Office, but also others. You're setting up an authority here that kind of shuts down the decision-making, the administrative decision-making that's here and which, at least in this activity, even if it couldn't be saved, because those laws arose here in 2006, or government regulations after 2005, and that's what the Ministry of the Environment took in such a way that we had this more than 40 billion-dollar mess. Please, I consider it a risk that I do not think you can defend against the citizens of this Republic. If you want to proceed this way and disable a functioning office - well, then do it honestly by looking people in the eye and not by this branch, which, in my opinion, is more than dangerous and can lead us to another solar tunnel. And I don't want it. I'm making this very clear and understandable that I will not support something like this in the law. I don't want this to go away or go back to redoing, I want it to work because energy security of the state is one of the essential things the state is supposed to deal with for citizens. And yet I must say, there have been some changes. I don't know what kind of malfunction occurred in the legislative process, but you blamed me here for the other proposals I had here, such things that, in my opinion, are more a question of legal opinion than a question of quality of legislation, but you might as well fall out in Section 17, paragraph 2, that in paragraph 1, you abolished the chair of the Energy Regulatory Authority. You will lose confidential information, but you will still leave it in another section, for example in Section 20 - you have cancelled its definition. Well, complete nonsense is in Section 46, which contains the power of the Energy Regulatory Authority in that weakened position to decide for the construction office what the protection zone of the power plant is. Please, you've got to be kidding me. I live a little bit from Temelín, I have him behind my back, I look at the cooling towers, and you make it chaos! You can't possibly be serious! I am convinced that it would be appropriate not to go back to recasting, not rejecting. We really need that law. The need for amendment clearly exists here, but I am convinced that the bill should be interrupted, a qualified seminar with the participation of the Economic Committee, the Committee on the Environment, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and then only to complete it with some date and outlook with an extension of the deadline for committee discussion, how we will stand up to that law. Because if you want to talk about it in a way that, he said, we had to get used to it again, that no one here is talking about qualified objections, then the only thing we can wait for is to prepare here for I don't know who another solar tunnel, this time in other renewable sources. And again, I really don't want that. And I do not wish to discuss the law by taking note of what the government has prepared for us and what it is, forgive me, at least in some parts of the legislative asshole. And now I speak from that profession where I think I know how to write the law and that the coherence of the various paragraphs and paragraphs and provisions must have some character. [[18.10 hours]] Therefore, I will propose a procedural suspension, not before the end of the debate, but before the vote on who will be ordered by the law and on the time limits for its discussion, I propose a temporary suspension of the hearing, setting the term of the seminar under the authority of the Economic Committee and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, leaving the attendance on the gestors. And then we'd just keep going. I don't care if it's a December meeting or January or February, but please, let's get this straight. Because it is not a matter that would no longer harm the citizens of the Czech Republic. We've been fighting for this for at least eight years since the energy market. I don't want to wait to add more to the energy prices than the 44 billion when we've managed to cut the subsidies by one billion by just putting it on the ceiling. That's my suggestion. I am very serious about it and please, I really ask the members of the coalition to take my proposal as a proposal that needs to be discussed and that needs to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u13	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I have here one factual remark from Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u14	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I very much understood what my previous speaker said, especially in the area of his reservations, the fundamental reservations about some of the points of this amendment of the law. I would even identify myself with the name of this amendment as a legislative scumbag. What I do not understand, however, is that this amendment should still be discussed further by the Chamber of Deputies, and that legislative work should not be up to the government to really put the law in such a state that it is not a legislative bastard, and that we start removing the legislative bastard in the House, in committees. I think that, first, the government should submit a law that may require minor adjustments, which, of course, could be supplemented by committees. I cannot imagine that, for example, the Economic Committee will work and represent the legislative process, the legislative work that the Minister of Industry has to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Mládek. [[Objection. To Mr Stanjur:]] I was just about to ask, were you with priority rights, Mr. Chairman? Okay. Minister, I'm sorry, we're going to keep the order as the individual debaters volunteered. Mr. Stanjura will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u16	Thank you. The Minister will certainly have plenty of time to discuss this law. I'm sorry, but I'll start with a memory. If I want to criticize something, maybe it's time to remember what we didn't do well. I learned from the material that more than a thousand comments were made on the original proposal from the MIT workshop. A thousand! That in itself tells of the quality of the original material. We, who were here in the last parliamentary term, remember at least one law with a thousand comments. The government then, I was part of the government coalition, I wasn't in the government at the time, I sent it here, and then we finished it on the Economic Committee - by the way, with President Urban. I don't think I'm gonna surprise you. It's a public procurement law. No one's checking in with him today. Practice showed he was bad from the very beginning. We, as the then government coalition, allowed him to come here with more than one thousand unfinished comments, because the fact that the Ministry does not accept something is not a comment, in my view, is only a formal one. Then we had one comprehensive amendment, then I think we had a second comprehensive amendment. We have made amendments to this in the various committees. We were under a lot of public pressure. Mainly, it was such a slogan that it was an anti-corruption law, every, even a legitimate reminder, the bearer, the promoter of that legitimate comment was labeled as one who does not want to fight corruption. In the end, a reasonable debate was not possible. And many knew it would turn out the way it did. Practice showed that the procedure was wrong from the start. That's why I started with the past, where we were in those benches, for example, with colleagues from social democracy on the contrary. And today we repeat the same thing. Although we exchanged the benches, one thousand comments, unfinished comments, exemption from the LRV, it wasn't on the working commissions. The minister isn't here without a job today. Notice, when we write a parliamentary bill from the opposition, which sometimes has two paragraphs, even six parties will form the Legislative Council of the Government and say: There is no dot, there is no semicolon, wrong are Arabic numerals, wrong are Roman numerals, everything. And here? For the press, which has 430 pages, suddenly there are exceptions, it accelerates, it doesn't settle - what the result will be! At the end of my performance for our club, I will propose rejection at first reading. And we'll be happy to support the return, because the effect is the same. In our opinion, this cannot be corrected in committees. And to play that the government will bring back and, through a Member, it will read a comprehensive amendment that will have 200 pages, so it is just wrong. This cannot really be corrected in the House Committees. And what Vice-President Filip suggested. I'm in favour of having the debate, but about the basic parameters of the law. Not that we dive into individual paragraphs, letters, letters, bounces. And we should be clear about that. Do we want to or do we not want to change five million contracts? What's the point? Or is there no point? If we agree on that, then there's a good chance that these paragraphs will be written well and we won't be amateurly designing and regrouping these committees. So this is our first major reservation of how the legislative process was actually taking place. And why do we have it at an emergency meeting today as the only first reading! A thousand comments, unsolved problems. Experience tells me that under the Energy Act, because it's a very complicated law, there's no rush. You see, we have it in an emergency meeting, but so far, the performances are for interruptions, return, rejection. He won't let me come back when we're so happy to criticize the government, especially when there's a contradiction between words and actions, and we're really going to point that out. I'm applying to our joint responsibility. We have reached a compromise on the Service Act, we have voted in favour, we have also voted against the President's veto - and here we see an attack on the independence of the regulator. I would still understand - I say, not agree, but understand - if the new management system of the regulator had been designed after the end of the term of the current management. I would not agree with that, because I think that collective responsibility is not good, that it is better that there is one, that it is not a classic performance of state administration in terms of organization subordinate to the Ministry of Industry, but a truly independent regulator. But the suggestion that from 1 July next year everything should be different - how else do you explain it than as an attack on the independence of this regulator and perhaps trying to remove an uncomfortable person from the leadership? Because the current president is very often publicly in a fight with the Minister of Industry and Trade. I don't think there's any surprise or new information. A response is not a debate about whether the board is better than one in the lead. The reaction is - so we just end it. We've had most of it since we were 1. 7. change the rules of the game. Where's all this talk about independence! And we were talking about ministerial officials. And that's an independent regulator. I'm not saying it's not a seductive idea. I don't think I'm gonna reveal anything new when we were messing around while we were in the government with a similar idea in the UOHS. I have to say, we've really been discussing this with each other, I think we've been discussing this informally with our opposition colleagues. Eventually, we retreated. It is with the condition that we do not change the rules of the game if the mandate of the current President applies. So if I have noted the debate well, because we have had it here once before in this parliamentary term, I think it was the rapporteur's proposal in another law, and if I have noted the public debate correctly, the Minister said - clearly, we are considering it, but if so after the end of the term of office. That's not what the proposal says. [[18.20 hours]] Now to the renewables. So I refuse to have that whole responsibility. We've been arguing about this the whole last term. Whoever sees how the individual clubs voted when the process started, so we were the only ones who voted as one man against. My colleague Martin Říman warned about the consequences, that someday it would cost us tens of billions. At that time, many laughed at him. Today we are in trouble that there is 44 billion a year and we are debating the parameter of how much of this will be paid by the state budget. This means how much the taxpayer pays indirectly and how much we leave to taxpayers directly, whether they are companies or households. We supported the indirect share, which means the share of the state budget is increasing. But the total volume is still the same, and it's going to be the same for a long time. Here again, we're worried there might be a new problem. And there's gonna be another Chamber of Deputies in ten years, and they're gonna say that when everyone screwed up, we have to hold it back now. We propose that we put a stop to this now, if possible, before we launch it at all, because the problem is essentially unsolvable and that 44 billion threatens the competitiveness of our industry and our households pay too much. However, to put it in context, I do not see the position of the Czech Government on the new climate package. It's like we've won that 27 percent hasn't been calculated yet, but I'm wondering how it's going to work out between these countries, since the government's already applying for it. If I have information from the European Parliament, then MEPs from Poland state and have estimates that if this is accepted, as Europe proposes, this will mean an increase of 120 per cent in energy in Poland. That's how many Polish studies. I didn't check the numbers, so if anyone's gonna question the number, that's fine. I am just saying from my fellow Members of the European Parliament that there is a lively debate about this, because the whole continent will not be competitive if we adopt the European rules. I would call here for greater activity of the Czech government and greater protection of our industry and our households. And if anyone thinks it's an early debate, it's not. Because if it's approved in Brussels, sooner or later, it's coming to us, and some of the next Snemovens are going to be like those labels before the question, either you're going to introduce them, or the Czech Republic is going to pay a fine for every day it doesn't. This decision is then not at all easy, which path, when both are wrong, to choose. And the last reservation I have to the press, and it's not just to Minister Mládek, but in general. I would want to mix implementations with my own ideas so that in each section what is really implementation, where we have to do it, and what is homemade design of Czech legislation, Czech officials. [[unintelligible]] Because very often, and we also have the experience from the past, ours have been making excuses for Brussels, who have moved it there for various reasons. No one had accurate information about what was a mandatory component, what was a mandatory minimum, and then it was so general that Brusel was responsible for all of this. Very often it was Prague's fault if we simplify it this way to the capitals in our republic. And I'm particularly interested in such extensive press. So, a clean transposition or implementation, in general, and I think, as the Chamber of Deputies, regardless of whether we are government or opposition Members, should simply demand separately that we know where the Czech Republic has already accepted a commitment, where we can complain that it is not good, but we really cannot change anything than that we will accept it, and where we can really make those changes and where it is worth debating what parameters, whether to introduce it, whether to implement it and how to proceed. [[unintelligible]] Perhaps the basic question that I will add to the specific questions before, why we have it as the only press in the first reading at that extraordinary meeting, and why, therefore, the legislative process has not yet been properly completed at that government level. We really don't understand. And to all those in haste, I will always remind you: Remember the Public Procurement Act. We've been in a hurry, we've been running it in committees, and it's gone wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u17	Thank you to the Chairman of the ODS. Now, with a factual remark, he will outrun Minister Mládek because he is entered with priority rights, Mr Ivan Pilný, Chairman of the Economic Committee. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u18	Thanks. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I will not expand the list of problems that have been named here. I might as well do it. I will also not express my opinion on solving these problems. There's just a lot of them. But what we're missing, no matter what the solution is today, is data. It's pointless to speculate if there are any households that aren't going to save, because it's going to go cheap, because we just don't know how many there are. We have no idea what impact this will have on large industrial enterprises. We just don't have the data. We don't know how much electricity it will cost, the supply of electricity to households with higher power consumption. There was also a demand, and it was said here, after the state energy concept to be submitted to the government. It has a lot to do with that. I simply say that we do not have data available, and I would appeal very much to the Ministry of Industry and Trade - we also do not know how much it will cost and how long it will take to redo several million contracts. I would appeal very much to this data when we discuss it, because it has to be discussed at some point in time, so that we have it available for the MIT to deliver it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u19	One more point in fact, Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u20	Thank you for the floor. I will therefore respond to the words of my previous speaker, President Pilný. We don't really have the data. I would refer here to the explanatory memorandum, and perhaps Mr Pilný could focus on that, which is called the Final Report on the impact assessment of regulation under the guidelines of the RIA on the draft amendment of the law. And here I read: The effects on the state budget and other public budgets - no. There aren't any. Impacts on territorial and self-governing units, municipalities, regions - no. Effects on the environment - no. So this is the explanatory memorandum submitted by the Ministry of Industry at the hands of the Minister of Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u21	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek has the floor now with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the speeches that have been made so that it does not fit, because there have been some things that are not accurate here, and some are even explicitly false, so I would like to set it right. First of all, it is not true that this law was discussed in the same way as the Public Procurement Act. I must make a very strong statement against this, because this law has been passed properly by the Legislative Council of the Government, it has been passed several times, there have been no shorter deadlines, there have been special working committees called for by President Stanjura. It all happened. And the reason it wasn't at the proper meeting was because the results of this careful discussion in those working committees were being incorporated into this proposal. At the same time, we also have ambition, and I do not hide that this law should enter into force on 1 July next year, so that there is some improvement in competitiveness for the Czech industry. I would also like to say that there were a thousand comments - but these are not unfinished comments. That's a thousand comments in the process of creating that law, and that's nothing weird about a material that's as complicated as that law and related. It's basically always that way. Moreover, unfortunately, this was extended by the Energy Regulatory Authority's activities, which for some reason felt disdained that it was not a co-president, but this is how it is, please. I would like to say from this point of view that I fully respect the independence of the Energy Regulatory Authority, which is responsible for this, is not to be admitted by the Ministry. On the other hand, this is how the law intended the guarantee. This office is not supposed to write its own paragraphs to regulate it. It'd be like a cop writing his own section about how to investigate. That's why it's separate. The legislative initiative is taken by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Energy Regulatory Office is a reminder point whose objections have been carefully settled. [[18.30 hours]] I would also like to say that it is not true that the promise that President Vitásková does not serve her term of office has not been fulfilled. There's a transitional provision. It's point number one. 3 where it is said that the current Chairman of the Energy Regulatory Authority becomes President of the Council of the Energy Regulatory Authority pursuant to Section 17b, etc. This means that the President, if this law is approved in the proposed text with effect from 1. 7. 2015, there will be another year, as it has put forward the existing legislation. So it's not true that this hasn't been secured. There's an effort to make sure there's no concussion, to keep it going. But, of course, there is an effort to keep the office from being monocratic, or more suggestively, so as not to be self-sustaining, to have counsel there. And it is exactly the same model as the Czech Telecommunications Authority, whose independence no one questions and which was used as a draft for this proposal. I would also like to say that the fact that only one person in Europe runs such an office is without precedent. There are only some institutions where the President and the Vice-President manage this. Thus, there was certainly no attempt to disrupt the activity of the Energy Regulatory Authority by making a change on the date of validity of the law. There's no way that's in there, and I have to take a very strong look. I would like to return to the comments made by President Okamura here. Again, the ERU Council's policy. If that were the case, it would be in exactly the same way to criticise the existing functioning of the Czech Telecommunications Authority, because, as I have already said, it is exactly the same model. Second thing, expensive. There's not gonna be a price increase. This is precisely why, so that the switch to other measurements based on power, not on consumption, so there will be a model in which, if it happens for one of the households that it should pay more according to the new model, it will be calculated according to the current model. This is what will ensure that no one pays more on renewables. I also did not understand that the government's priority would not be to increase energy efficiency, reduce consumption. This is the goal to which we are fully committed, and it really needs to be achieved that energy consumption is lower. The second thing is that there is a difference between primary energy consumption and electricity consumption. Presuming a decrease in primary energy consumption does not necessarily mean a decrease in electricity consumption. Having a photovoltaic problem, as Chairman Fiala said, is obviously the problem of those who are responsible. For the fact that this year we are planned to spend $44 billion on this as consumers and taxpayers. The last view is slightly better because, fortunately, the sun wasn't so bright and the wind wasn't blowing, plus we took some measures to improve the transparency of some entities, and the last view that it could be over 40 billion. Yet it is a huge sum that must, of course, encourage us to be cautious. Of course, there were many who did this, and there are few who could say: who you are without guilt, let them cast a stone. However, I think that, in spite of all this, Fischerův's government caused its inactivity, because at that time it was already clear that the installation of photovoltaic panels was too advantageous and that something needs to be done, and the response to the new development on the market was very slow and came up with a great delay. Why do energy policies often change? The primary reason for changing energy policy is not so much that the government is making it up, but unfortunately, there is a rather dramatic development going on in the world, which I will briefly sum up. Whether it's shale gas and its effects. Let it be the Ukrainian crisis. Whether it is developments at European level on the climate-energy package. Or a world-class discussion. What President Filip said, yes, we are concerned about Net4Gas' activities. Several negotiations have taken place with this company, and we will endeavour to ensure that the financial operation it has carried out, which is at the very edge, so that it does not affect the functioning of the high-pressure gas system. I suppose there'll be a lot to discuss. I would like this law to proceed to committee discussions, and my office is ready for a debate which, I assume, will be very thorough. I would also like to say that the debate on this law has actually been under way since the beginning of this House's term of office, because at the beginning I presented the so-called. a small amendment that addressed some of the problems with the formal adjustment of the financing of the OZ and which has actually already started the debate on this big amendment. So we're already, like, seven or eight months into the debate on these matters. It's complicated, it's obvious, but we're ready to discuss everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u23	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. Now I have two factual points. Mr. Roman Sklenák and his colleague Laudát changed his preference to factual, but Mr. Sklenák... [[Members prefer.]] Okay, so, my colleague, Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u24	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, they forced me not to delay. Just for a little while. Minister, we, TOP 09, will also support the return to recast or reject. Don't be angry with us, you unwanted, perhaps, or wanted, your officials, here you repeat the situation where Mr. Kocourek was Minister of Industry. We will bring something under the cape that the EU's transposition. Suddenly, an absolutely crucial decision started to fall. Then it was a stew that aroused a lot of emotion here. And today, you're leading the whole thing, or the same officials, in the same direction. I warn against this, and please, this should have been preceded by a substantive discussion in the Economic Committee in order to see the effects. Then paragrafo the text, and please, if there is a problem with the transposition of European law, separate it. But I think that your officials and others are creating completely deliberate chaos and sticking their stuff in there. And I'm awfully warning you to repeat the situation here from the past. Dramatic meetings, dinners, didn't work out in an hour, what we agreed on, what we agreed on. And of course the question is absolutely fundamental: Is the status and form of today's CTU to be closer to the existing form of the ERO or vice versa? I simply say that b) is correct, and it is unacceptable for me and it is also unacceptable for us to in any way call into question the independence of an independent regulator. And I think I'd be more in favour of the ČTÚ getting in the way of the ERO than the other way around, what you or your officials are putting forward here. But that's a matter of political debate. But I'm warning you, there's probably gonna be some motion to interrupt this point, so please think about what to do about it by Friday or until when. But it is certainly not for us to redo this in the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u25	Thank you. Now, President Sklenák, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, it is clear that today we would not be able to read this law first. Given the situation in which we are facing another extraordinary meeting and we have a proper meeting, I would like to make a procedural proposal, namely that we interrupt this point and adjourn until the 20th session of the Chamber of Deputies is reopened and, at the same time, interrupt this 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Friday, 7 November, 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-04-ps2013-020-01-008-008.u27	Okay, thank you. This is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote without debate. I'm just checking you out. Please log in with your ID cards. In the meantime, I'll write down... I'll repeat, if you logged in with your I.D. cards, I think there's still more. We will vote on the proposal to interrupt not only this point, but also this meeting, with paragraph No. 8, the Government's Bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws is interrupted until the reopening of the 20th meeting, which is assumed, because I cannot say otherwise, on Friday at 9 o'clock, that means 7 November. [[Energy law]] I do not know, of course, what resolutions the Chamber of Deputies will come to today in the ongoing next meeting, so, in this respect, probably by Friday 9 o'clock, so that we have a clear resolution. I have begun voting number 10 and I ask who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 10, from 129 in favour of 125, against 1. The motion was accepted. Interrupting item No. I am also interrupting the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Given the invitation you received for today's 21st meeting, I'm interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting by 6:51 p.m.
