ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u1	112. Information of the Prime Minister on the situation at the Ministry of Justice I ask the Prime Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, very briefly. As regards the situation at the Ministry of Justice in the context of the previous discussions held here at the Chamber of Deputies in recent months, Minister Válková has been head of the Ministry for about four months. During this period there were three situations where the activities of the resort in some wider extent were negatively mediated, respectively. In negative terms, it was discussed here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. The first situation was the question of the way the General Director of the Prison Service was removed from Dohnal. This matter has also been discussed on the floor of the competent committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The second issue, which was rather a media issue, was the dispute between the Minister and the first Deputy Minister, Mrs Marvanová. The situation was then resolved by the fact that Mrs Marvanová had resigned from the position of First Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Justice and thus the appointment of a new First Deputy Minister was made. The third issue, which I understand, was the trigger mechanism for requesting this point, was the medialized conflict between the Minister and Deputy Minister Štern, who ended yesterday by the resignation of Deputy Minister Štern from the Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Justice. As regards the issue of the dispute between Minister Válková and Deputy Minister Štern, in my view this is a fundamental communication conflict and probably a conflict in terms of access to the preparation of the electronic bracelet selection procedure. The Ministry of Justice was entrusted with the preparation of this tender by the Probation and Mediation Service, which is included in the competence of the section led by the former Deputy Minister Válková Štern. During the preparation of the selection procedure, in particular at the stage when a certain demand or market survey was assessed, carried out by the Commission within the scope of the Probation and Mediation Service, there was a dispute as to the extent of the information to be provided directly to the Minister of Justice. In the context of this dispute, Deputy Minister Štern, as has also been published and published, turned to the law enforcement authorities with his initiative. The Minister's reaction was his withdrawal from office yesterday. As for the question of the genesis of Deputy Minister Štern's activities at the Ministry of Justice, I think it is worth saying that Mr Štern has been head of the Probation and Mediation Service, which belongs to the Ministry of Justice. He was never a member of social democracy. The deputy was nominated by Minister Válková with the recommendation of social democracy, but he was nominated primarily as a non-partisan expert whose expertise belongs to the section to which he was appointed, because the section headed by Deputy Štern also includes the Probation and Mediation Service, which was led by former Deputy Štern for many years. So it is not possible to talk about sending Deputy Štern to the Ministry of Justice, it is not possible to talk about the fact that Deputy Štern is somehow linked to the political activities of the Czech Social Democratic Party. He was supported by social democracy at the time when discussions were held on the nominations of the Deputy Ministers for individual departments, as an expert who could assist the Minister in the management of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister agreed to this nomination, she did not have it at the time when the government was drawing up, virtually. The respective teams in the management of the ministries were assembled, no problem. On the basis of the question and discussion about the procedure of Deputy Minister Štern around the preparation of the relevant selection procedure, I asked the Minister for a meeting yesterday. We met, I asked the Minister to explain the whole matter of the selection procedure and the nature of the dispute between her and Deputy Minister Štern. Madam Secretary gave me this explanation. I took note of him. I asked the Minister of Justice to calm the situation at the Ministry of Justice in order that the Ministry be able to carry out the tasks of the Government's programming declaration. I believe that calming the situation in the resort and its significant staff stabilization can create conditions for the Ministry of Justice to function as needed by the government and the Czech Republic. I would also like to remind you that at the moment the resort has a number of important tasks. It is, for example, the preparation of an amendment to the Civil Code, it is an amendment to the rules for the performance of private executions, as required by the Government's programming declaration, it is a question of preparing an amendment to the State Prosecutor's Act, it is a question of reform of prisons. Of course, the resort should also look for the necessary savings in its operation. There are a number of practical questions which the Ministry and its management should be very intensively engaged in, and in my opinion any such sharp staff dispute, or even publicly presented disputes between the Minister and its subordinates, as they have occurred in the past few months, which I have mentioned here, do not help the good public image of the Ministry of Justice and do not help the good presentation of the work of the Government of the Czech Republic. Those are the things I factored out to the secretary in our conversation yesterday. I asked her to act as professionally as possible in her course of action to see that the minister must also be a person with certain management skills, capable of predicting problems. If he is unable to predict, he should, above all, manage and address them so as not to burden the functioning of the government. Yesterday I also met with the Chairman of the ANO movement, who is a coalition partner of social democracy. Based on the coalition agreement we have, it is the ANO movement that nominates its representative to the head of the Justice Department. I asked the Chairman of the ANO movement whether the ANO movement is considering changing this nomination. The answer I have received is that the YES movement does not consider changing this nomination. So at this point, I respect the position of the coalition party, but what happened at the Justice Department in the three cases that I mentioned, I do not consider positive signals. I am convinced that the Minister should now put all the pressure on the perception of the Justice Department to change significantly positively. So much for the situation at the Ministry of Justice, as I see it from the perspective of the Prime Minister's responsibility at the moment. Thank you. . [[Applause for Members of the ČSSD]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I have here the application from the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr Kalousek, with a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not very common, but I believe that we should deal with the situation in all seriousness and hear all the relevant information, which is why I would like to propose and ask the House for its approval in order to allow the former Deputy Minister Štern to speak during the debate and to introduce us to the motive that led him to such an unprecedented act by the civil servant. So I'm making a procedural motion for the House to agree to the appearance of Deputy Štern, of course former Deputy Štern. Of course it would take a while, because we'd have to subpoena him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u5	Yes, that is a procedural proposal, which I will leave to vote without debate. I assume that Mr Kalousek refers to Section 52 of the Rules of Procedure, which states in paragraph 3 that other persons may attend the House's meetings if the House agrees, and the President may give him the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, exactly this paragraph and this paragraph I referred to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u7	Yes, thank you, so I'd like to take a vote. Yes, I'll sign you all out, please, for a new registration... Since the treaty has been settled, I would like to vote on the procedural proposal made by Mr Kalousek, that is to say, the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Section 52 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 agrees with the participation of former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Štern. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 124, registered is 145, for 90, against 47, this proposal has been adopted. [[Strong applause for Members of the ODS.]] Of course, if Mr Štern comes to the Chamber of Deputies, he will be able to speak in the debate. I am opening up the debate at this stage and asking who is reporting for the debate. The Minister of Culture was about half a second faster than the President of the ODS Club, so the Minister of Culture has the floor, after which President Stanjura will speak. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u8	Mr President, colleagues, the claim made by former Deputy Minister Štern that the Minister may have committed suspicious activities in connection with the public electronic bracelet contract is an extremely serious accusation which threatens the stability and credibility of our entire coalition government. In this situation, in my opinion, the coalition cannot passively await the outcome of the police investigation. We, the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the general public, should immediately be presented with evidence on which these accusations are based. If it turns out that the submission of such a notification should only be an abuse of the police for political purposes, I believe that social democracy should distance itself from such a procedure. As a minister with some experience on his agenda, I say that if the Deputy Minister commits such a degree of disloyalty that he announces his disputes with the Minister of the media, it is a gross violation of labour discipline and a complete loss of trust and response can be an immediate appeal of such a deputy. . [[Storming applause from the center of the hall]] That's how I'd do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u9	The next entry is the President of the ODS Club, Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u10	Thank you for the floor. I've already announced this morning that we don't want to defend or criticize the Minister's right to revoke his deputy. Mr. Deputy thanks to our vote - or ex-Deputy - he will perform here and will also be able to tell the Minister of Culture what led him to his non-standard behaviour. And I was already saying in that morning's performance that it was very unusual and that the ex-boyfriend had to know that such behavior would be well rewarded, so he certainly did it knowing that the risk of appeal or the high probability of appeal exists. But we would not want the debate to be narrowed down to the legitimate right of the Minister to choose, appoint or revoke the Deputy. We were just pointing out that the team that the secretary has chosen has fallen apart, even though they see the dark rejoins of the opposition, so I don't know if you think either your former first deputy or your former deputy was tasked with the opposition? That's really ridiculous. I was intrigued by the secretary's four-month capacity to control the state's attorney. It's these subtle sentences that we've been supplied with all along. Since he's texting the Attorney General to pay more attention to media-known cases. I don't understand at all. The last time on Czech TV on the debate programme, the Minister said she wanted access to live volumes and ongoing investigations. I do not understand this at all, and I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether it is standard and whether it is government policy or merely the efforts of Secretary Válková. This seems much more serious to me in the debate - the efforts of the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Justice to intervene in live ties and ongoing cases - than whether or not she had the right to dismiss the Deputy Minister. I'm sure she did. That's what this debate could be about today, but it might not have been. It's not the main problem. And we will gradually point to other problematic steps and problematic statements concerning the Ministry of Justice. We've been listening all this time to the new State's Attorney's Act. So I ask - how will this proposal reflect these efforts of the Minister of Justice? Firstly, that it will select media-interesting cases and will interview the top representatives of the public prosecutor's system, why aren't they paying attention to them? And then they have to answer. I think the dispute was rather sharp, if you recall it, politely conducted, I'd say a legal spirit, but very sharp. And there was a very sharp distance from the Attorney General and the other officials that the Minister simply does not have the right to do so. And that the investigation is going very standard, and there's no need for them to report on any case that the secretary has read about in the paper that she wants to know more about. And as the proposal for an amendment or a new law on the State's Attorney's Office will eventually be dealt with by the Minister, who she declared live, without opposition, no one forced her to do so, no one pushed her, that she wanted to be able to intervene in the living cause. That is what I think are very important questions, and I would like to hear the answer from the Prime Minister first, whether it is government policy or only Minister Válková's policy. And then from the Minister himself - what does he mean by that? How does he imagine that? Who's gonna pick out the interesting cases? And how is she going to interfere with the ongoing cases? In what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u11	Thank you, I am still - because we have not identified the rapporteur for this point, so according to the experience it should be the first to perform - and that was the Minister of Culture. So, if the Minister of Culture could take up the rapporteur role, I think that would be for the benefit of the matter. Thank you, Minister. Mr Blažek is now registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I think that between the ministries and the House - and now I'm going to borrow a quote from Palacký, which concerns something completely different, but I'm going to say, "we should be hanging out here and dealing with the Ministry." What I'm dealing with right now should be more of a meeting than a struggle. The reason is pretty simple. I have criticized some of the Minister's actions from the start, at a time when she was in full media strength. I don't think he did. Now, in a situation where I think that the Minister is from her closest associates, which she has unfortunately brought herself to the Ministry, in a situation that I would call burdensome, I must say that some of the means that are used in a long-term duel, I will tell you that they are absolutely disgusting to me, so I do not want to be the one to come today and say, "that Válková and Válková" and keep hitting each other. In general, I would like to say that the moment the Minister started to appoint a new ministry leadership, so I remembered, and this is such a nice conversation, Kádár and Dubček of August 1968, when Dubček did not believe that the troops would come, and Kádár said to him a beautiful question: "Do you not know who you are dealing with?" And I was already wondering when the secretary brought certain people to the ministry that he probably doesn't know who he's dealing with. And in that I see a certain element of maybe naivety, maybe, and that's worse, I don't like it to look good on the outside, just the media angels have taken over the ministry and it's just gonna look good. The problem with media angels is when the content begins to fall. At that moment, the media support the angels for a little while, and then, the media sky is tiny unlike the media hell, I could talk a lot about it, but the media sky is small and it runs out, and that is a little advice for Mr.Faltýnek, if she accepts it, to the fact that two media angels can't stand in one house. It's just an impossible thing to do. And one finally bites the other. You have the exact same thing, if it's movie stars, it's just very similar. I could talk about a lot of music bands where a singer and a guitarist are cut up, who gets more space at the concert and so on. That's exactly what happened. What I must call a tragic thing is the words and some comments of Mrs Marvanová, who, when unable to do anything at the Ministry, used a classic old trick: dark forces, there are dark forces in this society. And you always have to go after the rich, or those who may not like the nation for too long, you have to scare them away, distract them, and to do so, best to find the supporters of these dark forces. Which, I guess, unexpectedly for the Secretary of State out of nowhere, was the Minister after Mrs Marvanová on one day, what a coincidence it was in our objective journalists, in three journals, if I'm not mistaken, she suddenly interviewed the same thing, that she was just attacking the dark forces that were trying to push her out of the ministry, and then there's some secretary working with these dark forces, and who knows who else is working with them. The problem is that the dark forces have been called justice, that is, even though the Minister said at the start that she will restore the credibility of justice, so there has been a great defilement of justice, because it acts like some mob in the mob and the only concern they have is that the great Hana is coming and everyone is scared! From the Supreme Court to the last district halls, they're shaking like this in the face of Hana! Unfortunately, Czech media, and I'm going to skip that completely, of course, jumped on it, but no one knocked. Everyone prayed that Hana stays there, there's nothing to be done, it's great, the ministry breaks down, who can, runs away. It all happened! That is why the Deputy Minister of Pelikán, who has joined, is in fact having a difficult time in saying that people in the Ministry refused to work not often but because of wages but because of treatment. You can act like a Trautenberk who treats a gamekeeper like that. It's very unpleasant, but he's doing it on his own and on his own. And now Trautenberková comes to the ministry and acts like a stranger, or all of us, just like Trautenberk, who sometimes goes to report to Krakonoš, so she doesn't go to Krakonoš, she goes to the police. The Minister will not say anything, and now the Minister will simply say, and in this I would say, even though we have no relations at all, I have to be on her side, cooking in the boiler, where the ugliest methods that can be used in political warfare are used. Unfortunately, part of the media is still playing this situation, and it's a warning to everyone, whoever it belongs to. That's the interesting thing. Suddenly it doesn't apply, because the Prague cafe and some other cafes have decided that someone is holy and someone is just unholy and is worthy of contempt. Angels, Mr. Faltýnek - through you - if I may give you that advice, never again. [[on the President]] In Benda's media hell, they can work with Blažek for 20 years, there's no problem. Hell is big enough, media. I'm not saying I'm the devil, but the media is definitely, and I'm kind of enjoying it, this role. But media angels never go anywhere again. I could name a few examples I can imagine if they met at the ministry, how it would have turned out. I think it would be fair for the Minister to actually speak at this point as well. It's called the Prime Minister's information on a situation. I'll ask you in advance when the Minister does it, so that it's not in the state that scheming from the opposition and all that. You didn't have the honor in this fight with any opposition, but with someone far worse than any opposition. The opposition might tell you that you're doing it wrong, Madam Secretary. These guys hit you from behind, it's a huge difference, and out of darkness. You don't even know who does it, but you know it's coming. It's just an old thing, and it would be fair for you to step up on this thing to have a calm debate. I don't think we have to scream very populistly here - and now we're gonna call somebody off! and so on and so forth. Any moron can say that. I don't think that's necessary in this situation. I'll stop now. I've been talking for a long time. But as soon as you put me here, I already have zaorálek syndrome. I'm gonna start with my hands, my hands, then I'm gonna go, "Do you understand that? [[significantly gesticulates]] Well, do you understand?" - no one's gonna get me out of here. [[Applause and cheerfulness across the hall.]] I'll stop talking like that. I think that the Minister should sign up, really keep quiet about the situation at the Ministry as it is, without accusing anyone in this room. Because this O.R. didn't do it, I'm firmly convinced of what's going on there, and we can move on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u13	I now have Mr Komárek's factual comment. After that, the de facto remark of the Member... If what has been announced to me by Mrs Černochová is a factual point, then she takes precedence over Mr Gabal. So, Mr. Komárek. That was the first one. Please. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, about one or two notes. First. If anyone really thinks the justice system in our state is in good shape, they don't know anything about it, and they've never been in a court of law. And then I understand that those who left her in that state are a little afraid of being reformed. And maybe he's a little shy. Second point. I saw Mr. former Deputy personally once, so it's definitely not a personal attack, but I know that when someone goes to turn in their superior without resigning - a decent person might even shoot his head in more enlightened times if he had doubts about his superior, but let's say a lesser claim without resigning - and alerting him to it, acting, saying politely, totally immorally, and saying full-mouthed - pigs. That's why I don't even want to listen to him here in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u15	Thank you. Another factual Mrs Černochová, then Mr Gabal, then Mr Blažek, all factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u16	You do not, Komárek Komárka, through the President, but you will. I just wanted to ask the Minister as much questions as I did the Prime Minister. Because General Dohnal is still in some kind of legal vacuum. It is not clear, therefore, whether the service law applies - it does not apply, as the Minister claims, and for the sake of certainty, Colonel Ondrášek has appointed both under the Service Act and under the Prison Service Act, so we now have a colonel twice appointed, unlike the general, who is unfortunately in a legal vacuum, even if he receives a salary. And I want to ask the Prime Minister: How is it possible and according to what legislation does General Dohnal receive his salary? That's my first question. [[17,00 hours]] Then I want to ask if the Prime Minister knows that the Minister has cancelled, or Mr Ondrášek as an executor, on Friday, 13 June, the entire legal department, as well as the property and financial control department, which was part of the control department. And from 1. 7. Therefore, the Directorate-General is to be contrary to Act No. 555/1992 Coll., on Prison Service and Judicial Guard - it will not be able to comment on any commentary procedure, on legislative proposals, on other materials submitted to the Government and to Parliament or also discussed in this House. So I want to ask if the Prime Minister knows about this and what the Minister will say about it. So please, to answer my questions, and I'm applying with fact to the debate after the co-invited ones, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u17	Yes, thank you. Mr. Gabal, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank your colleague Blažek for putting the Security and Information Service in the Prague Café, which has been drawing attention to the judicial mafia for several years in its reports and which can be relied on. That's the first point. Second point. As my colleague Marvanová is not here, let me just point out that she represented your former fellow partyman and the Minister of Justice in the dispute against Prosecutor Rampul, and there are serious violations of the law by Mr Rampula in the judgment. Thirdly, I am one of those who founded the Public Against Corruption in the cafe, which I think was quite strongly advocated for the recovery of Czech justice. I know you're waving your hand at it, I think it's played a positive role after all. And my final point, and since I'm working with some of my ANO colleagues on the Opencard Committee of Investigation, I'd be happy to invite you, come and listen to it sometime, so you can take another picture of the justice system there other than that of the Ministry. And my final point, because I know Mr. Štern, I don't think there's any reason not to give him the right to speak up and explain his actions. I have held the Minister's vote several times in the Security Committee to avoid being bullied, so now I'd like to vote with her opponent, so we can hear his opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u19	Another factual point, Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u20	Thank you for the floor. A brief response to deaf and at the same time master of words. No one here said justice was in excellent condition and there was no need to do anything. I was just saying that I didn't believe - and there wasn't a single name - that there were some organized pressures in justice, in executors, in lawyers, so that Mrs. Marvanová would leave. Don't put any Rampul in my mouth and I don't know who. I'm not defending these things. I didn't say justice was in excellent shape, and there's nothing to improve. Oh, please, let's hear each other out. I just don't believe that Hana Marvanová was worth what she said under a huge media response that they were grouping up some dark forces and trying to banish her. That's all. So please don't really put me in here, I'll say it a thousand times, you don't know me very well, something I didn't say at all! I'm willing to come to the Opencard Committee, but that's got something to do with what I didn't say. So, please, let's respond to each other and not to some of the things you've probably read in the paper.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u21	Two more minutes - Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I'd like to tell my colleague Blažek a little bit not to pick on Trautenberk. That's almost an honest citizen of Trutnov City, so as an example, I didn't think of it as anything that would amuse me. However, I wanted to ask you something else about the Prime Minister. Because I find it absolutely incredible that the deputy is going to sue the anti-corruption police for his own secretary. And since the deputy is the nominee for social democracy, I wonder if he was anywhere else before he went to the police. Whether he talked to him or someone in social democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u23	Yes, that was... Mr. Ambassador, correct or really? Seriously. Please, Mr Chalupa, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u24	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Just in a nutshell about what's said here. I've noticed a trend since I've been an MP. State officials, as well as senior civil servants, who are subsequently defended in committees when these matters are discussed, instead of dealing with their personnel and service matters with their superiors, it becomes the rule that they start communicating with the media. They're creating a kind of image of martyrs, and that's basically the whole problem that's basically just personnel, and it's a matter for the minister or the person who's responsible for the office or the subject, so it puts him in a situation where even politically the thing gets into a completely different position, and then we're dealing with things that are basically that Minister's thing! How can it be said that the Minister is not responsible for matters relating to the issuance of taxpayers' money, that is to say, all of us? I just feel like I'm in a madhouse. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u25	Now one more point in fact from Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u26	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief response. I'm gonna use what I didn't say this morning, but I'm just gonna say it again, I think that's what my colleague Kalousek said. This tradition was initiated by a certain Mr. Michálek. That's just the way it is. He even recorded his supervisor, then unsuccessfully, because there was no prosecution... The media played what it played, and today the senator is just because he did exactly what you're criticizing. And maybe some, Madam Secretary, of your Deputys will also be running for office. 'Cause now he's got that anti-corruption guy's reputation, and he's gonna make money on you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u27	Now the Minister of Justice has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u28	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I wanted to speak and to direct the call of my predecessor, former Minister of Justice, Dr Blažek, I would rather do so. I'm not here to defend myself. I am here to explain my actions, which led me, on the one hand, to appeal to the Deputy Minister for Criminal Policy, which includes the issue of prisons and logically and electronic bracelets as a project entrusted to the organizational component which is managed and supervised by the Ministry of Justice. For one thing, I would like to explain what the situation is at present at the Ministry of Justice. To point 1. I called off Deputy Štern, although I didn't just have that intention on Monday morning, but if any of you asked me that, I would deny this possibility as absurd. But there was more absurdity. In the last 14 days or so, maybe it's three Sundays, I've recapitulated it, I've dealt with an electronic bracelet project at the level of the meetings that took place and where one of the points was the situation, information on the solution of the project. Until today, or until yesterday, when I stopped this project, there was no sophisticated project of electronic monitoring systems that should address the issue of house arrest in a better and more modern way than now, i.e. the supervision of probation officers. There was only a concept, a concept, a framework concept, let's call it a preparatory outline, what such a project might look like, which was approved in March of this year at the meeting I had, and which was binding only and only for those who were preparing the real project, which was due to be submitted by 30. 6. This was already the term that gradually moved away, because the work was not as fast as we expected, but it was the order of days, not weeks. So in the end, I've always agreed that it's better to have a well-prepared project. And that's not the subject of my criticism right now. [[17.10 hours]] What began to become the subject of my criticism was created at the beginning of June when I received the material in which the price obtained by market research was fixed. And that price was essentially supposed to represent the highest possible price - the material said it could be lower - and it was about 105 to 110 miles. Crowns. I don't know exactly the amount right now, but it was about 105 miles. Crowns. The price seemed high to me and at a meeting where Deputy Štern did not happen to be, the other Deputys also expressed their wonder as to how the price actually arrived, virtually. Not him, but the Probation and Mediation Service, which belonged to the government, the management section that he was in charge of. So, without any major problems, I requested... So I have already asked about this issue in relation to the possibility of funding from European programmes, how these prices will move around, but I have never received a concrete basis for this. But now I have had material which, in my opinion, was not sufficient to say responsibly - yes, that is a price of 110 or 105 million, which should definitely not be exceeded. It was about 150 kroner per bracelet. If I had read you the text - I will read it, but not the whole - which I have received is accompanied by this price, I think you would have some doubts whether such a basis is sufficient: the contracting authorities received information from eight suppliers - a total of 25 known suppliers - with seven of them providing information about the estimated price. The difference in price offers was quite significant. For the purpose of establishing the estimated value of the contract, the contracting authority eliminated tenders which are financially unacceptable to it and, at the same time, eliminated tenders which do not meet the required parameters by the contracting authority. Within the financial scope of the remaining tenders - in parentheses of approximately CZK 110 to 170 excluding VAT, the majority of the tenders are at the upper limit - the contracting authority has reached a logical consideration and calculation - we do not know how - for the purposes of the public contract to the maximum possible amount for one bracelet of CZK 150 without VAT and on the basis of this amount and model prediction of the increase in the number of penalties carried out at the same time, the contracting authority has reached the estimated value of the public contract of CZK 105 260, etc. [[A thousand?]] for three years of service provided. It should be stressed that this is only the estimated value of the contract, not the price for the future performance of the contract, and the resulting price can deviate significantly. - So this was available to us at a tighter management meeting. I returned the material with the fact that please specify through documentation that gives us better information about individual prices, because if you have somewhere in the document written that some offers are eliminated because they do not meet the required parameters by the contracting authority, and you do not know what parameters did not meet, or that they are financially unacceptable, and you do not know why they are financially unacceptable, and then you have a logical reasoning and calculation that is not defined, formulated, respectively. I, the Minister of Justice, responsible for the supervision of the Probation and Mediation Service, for budgetary discipline, but also for the fact that this contract will, of course, be implemented in certain terms and that it will not be done as in the previous two cases, it was still for previous governments, when suspension was made as a result of the decision of the Office for Competition Control, and also for this reason, that the Justice Department should not be criticised for not using it in the early stages of its ability, I instructed Deputy Štern to submit for a closer management meeting - or it was not just for me - documentation supplemented by the data available to the working group. This afternoon I received a document from the Probation and Mediation Services because I assumed this meeting, which is called Market Survey, providing an electronic home arrest control system. It's not a contract or a deal. It is only one provision in the preamble to this survey, which states that all information and documents will be treated as confidential information unless otherwise specified by the supplier for a particular document, and the contracting entity will use such confidential information only for the preparation of the related procurement, for preparation within the relevant working group, and will not make such confidential information available to other persons in any way. Here was signed an additional clause - sorry, not a clause, but it is - bracelets, a list of persons who were appointed as members of the working group, where by signing on the presentation list the participants confirm that they were familiar with the confidentiality obligation regarding the results of the presented market survey. Very, as a lawyer, very vague information, very questioning whether, as a result of such an obligation, there is any claim to apply this confidentiality in the event of its breach, but this may not be the subject of our discussion. However, this is in no way a strict obligation of confidentiality in relation to the superior body, which is the Minister of Justice in this case under the Probation and Mediation Service Act 2000. So this is not a classic contract. It is a preamble and the stated obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the information that we all normally sign. I put a term of 13 on the document. Six, which was Friday. On Friday, I received from Deputy Štern the refusal of my application with reference - now I know what, on this preamble - to a commitment to secrecy with repeated emphasis on the impossibility of providing such information. I went to Mgr's office. Štern, who wasn't in his office because he was somewhere else for business reasons. I answered the phone and called the Director of Probation and Mediation Services and told her that I had not received this information, because she was in a copy as well as the First Deputy Pelikán, and that I still insist that the information be made available to me and that we must find the way in which it will be made available to me. That this is a market survey, that it is not a tender and that I need to know how the working group came - and I did not yet know that it was not a working group, but an even narrower team from the staff at the Directorate of Probation and Mediation Services, how it came to this amount. [[17.20 hours]] We started discussing this, and she told me the following: I think it's best, Madam Secretary, if you take the project to the Ministry, and then of course you can get to know it, because - and now we've started thinking - I'm going to be a member of the working group, which I could have done playfully. I won't. But since it was a matter that I considered to be completely normal in carrying out my duties, and I didn't see it so dramaticly, I told the Director: I'm going to let it all go through my head this weekend, don't say anything to Director Štern yet, because I don't know if I'm going to leave the project at Probation and Mediation Service or at the Ministry of Justice, I didn't reach him in the office, and I want to discuss it with you and him personally. And I'll make time for it this weekend. I thought about it on the weekend, and I came to the conclusion, among other things, because I thought that it would be taken with some disapproval, and I didn't want to cause any unnecessary discontent, let alone mediation, so I decided - and even before I knew what Mr. Deputy Štern had done, I talked to the principal and told her that I was leaving the project with the current management at Probation and Mediation Service, and that we would agree how to make information available to us as management, or at least to me, but I was always talking about narrower management, from the market survey, to be sure that the price shown is low enough, or so. It's not very high. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] Maybe you'll ask me why I even had those doubts... Now that you've requested this information, I'd like peace, Mr President, because I think...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u29	Yes. I'm asking for peace too! If anyone needs to debate, it's outside this meeting room, unless, of course, they're standing at the counter. He's the only one who can talk, and everyone else should listen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u30	I think that you wanted this information, and if it wasn't a proxy problem and we're not going to discuss decomposition procedures here and what happened a few months ago and what's going on - I can prevent the question and the answers, the ongoing decomposition procedures, I couldn't even talk about it - you have to, or should pay attention now when I justify my actions to you. The considerations that led me to doubt were the fact that in the last two years, and I have also followed this in the context of projects that we do at the university and my foreign contacts, prices of electronic monitoring systems have fallen very significantly, and I had the information that I had updated, as well as the existing prices that are needed in the US, where they move - one monitoring day is charged to prisoners, or the state has them even cheaper, around $1.5 a day, so let's say it's about CZK 30, when one bracelet - not its rent, but the purchase of a quality electronic bracelet - is around $800. He basically costs less, but that's how he counts on the convict, which is roughly 16,000. CZK, so with an easy calculation, it went to 54,000 a year. Kč. I'm not saying we'd go the same way, I'm not saying it contains all the items, but I needed to decrypt what's under the price, if it involves the rent of an electronic bracelet, monitoring, installation and development of a software system, more items that can reveal the reality of whether the sum of 150 CZK, respectively. 105 miles. CZK, it's real or excessive. As I was surprised, however, when, after I had finished the interview with the director, whom I had left the project, Mr. Deputy Štern knocked, he very determinedly entered and said: I had just made an announcement to the anti-corruption police because of non-standard steps in connection with electronic bracelets. Can I tell you, dear colleagues, that at first I didn't understand what he was telling me, so I had it explained about three times and I said - what non-standard steps? I even thought there was something going on within the Probation and Mediation Service that this project had, and that in this way it wanted to tell me something that doesn't concern me at all. And he said, your unstandard steps. That you asked me for prices that are confidential. Of course, I was supposed to start the board meeting, and I have a lot of witnesses, a lot of witnesses, that I said that we would move it 15 minutes, so I calmed down, and then I led the meeting for two hours, so that at the end of the meeting, my colleagues would start pointing out that in the media, there was a message that Deputy Štern had made a submission to the Anti-Corruption Police, where he called me a suspect in non-standard steps. We finished the meeting - and I will cut back on my speech, you know the whole story now - I asked them to remain Deputy, including Deputy Štern, and we all asked him why he did it, and secondly, why he was mediating it. His answer was repeated and it sounded: I felt surrounded, this is not done, it was a non-standard step, the Minister cannot want information about prices that should be confidential. And my first deputy, Dr. Pelikán, said: I could still understand everything - I'm putting it in brackets: I don't - but he said, I could still understand everything, but I don't understand why you had to come out of the anti-corruption police force, because in the meantime, they figured it out that it was in the press immediately, virtually. in the media, and call the People's News. Did you do it? And he said, "Yes, I did, and I think it's right, I stand by it." Then I said, and then I will finish my information on point one: Thank you, leave and we will consult, but without you, how we will respond to it. And then I published, and I formulated the press releases that we made to set things right. Other developments you had the opportunity to watch in the media. I don't think I need my next comment. As for point two, what is the situation at the Ministry of Justice? I wanted to invite you, anybody interested in visiting the Ministry of Justice, to talk to any worker, whether it's a senior worker, a deputy, to tell you what the atmosphere is at the Ministry of Justice, to compare it with the time before, to tell you what happened, to explain to you from his point of view an employee who has experience far longer than I do and I think it will be more objective whether he is working at the Ministry under my direction very badly, if I use methods he didn't know and what causes any discontent. When it comes to carrying out legislative tasks, I think it would be better to ask the First Deputy. In 14 days - I stand by the fact that we will carry out legislative tasks, although not with regard to the complexity of certain regulations, namely the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office, where we do not want to present the standard in a time which will come to pass, so we are also looking for compromises, which I have been, here again I quote Mr Blažek, the first deputy in the past very much accused of seeking compromises, and therefore subject to certain mobs that are pushing me. So I will always seek compromises, but of course only to a certain point. Independence, but at the same time the responsibility of prosecutors must be much higher, greater and more ensured than before. [[17.30 hours]] Thank you for your attention. I'm at your disposal. In conclusion, allow me only one sigh. I imagined negotiations in the House a little differently, and I certainly didn't want my actions to encourage you to have to deal with the Justice Department. What happened now in the last 48 hours, I really couldn't predict that, and I couldn't even prevent it. I take full responsibility for other things, but that's why I've been defending myself a little bit with yellow cards, because I can't make sure in the future that somebody who needs to be made visible or for any other reason doesn't go to anti-corruption police, they don't call any of my normal work progress as a non-standard, and then they don't call the media who's very happy to take over this topic. Of course, I can't guarantee it. Thank you for your patience with a long speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u31	Thank you, Minister of Justice Helena Válková, and we will continue our discussion. From the way I'm looking at the screen, we have two factual notes. First, Mr Martin Novotný, with a factual remark, will prepare his colleague Zlatuška. Then with priority rights, President Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u32	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, I will make absolutely factual and non-political improvements to your quotes, to those who have never participated in public procurement, one such, I think, a pretty reasonable experience. When you write public contracts in an area where you have experts in your office or which are commonly known, you simply estimate the price and structure of the contract in some way. When it's an area that's distant from everyday life, sometimes market research is done. Which is perhaps the most sensitive thing ever. It's a thing that's very similar to when you open some envelopes, first you read what's written in them, and then maybe you let someone else react to the price. These companies are willing to participate in any such market survey, in which they reveal their data - if they are to be relevant, they must reveal them truthfully - only in fact under the condition of quite fundamental confidentiality of content. If anyone didn't understand this and if this was legally treated in the upcoming tender, I imagine it might have been quite a sensitive matter. In short, nobody wants to say in advance that firm x is offering something at some price, because then firm x wants to participate in a real tender and not just the market survey. If that's what it was, then it seems to me that it created such an affair, completely ridiculous, almost incredible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u33	I thank Mr Novotný for his time. Another factual point is that of Mr Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I differ in my view of the matter with what has just been said, and I see it exactly the other way around. At the time when such a contract is being prepared, all data must be transparently visible in the preparation. I can imagine that they are hiding because several insiders sell them to interested parties in such a way that the most advantageous price is not finally reached. At a time when I'm doing market research for companies that tell me reasonable data that are realistically targeted, a company like this will not offer me a lower price in real competition because it has already set it for me at the beginning. I have no reason to hide such a thing, and even that company has no reason to hide itself at the moment when it really wants to enter the competition itself. The only reason for what has been said here with Deputy Štern, why he would want to hide these data, I could understand. I'm not saying it had to be this way, it could have been an entirely irrational act, but if it was a rational act, I can imagine that at the moment he intended to put the data under someone's hands in such a way that he would have agreed with the candidates and influenced the audition, the tender, so that he had an interest in keeping the data secret. The moment he got it out of him, he took a preemptive step and pretended to go to the anti-corruption police. Compare Mr Štern to Mr Michálek, as Mr Blažek did here a moment ago, that seems very farfetched to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u35	I thank my colleague Zlatušek. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, who made use of the factual point, before a colleague of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, with a factual remark. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u36	I know I shouldn't tell my fellow Members, but I find it quite smiling from Mr. Zlatuška that before Mr. Štern gets off, he's already arguing with what he says he's going to say. It's such an amazing method. Mr. Štern hasn't come out yet, and you already know what he should say, what he shouldn't say, what you wouldn't believe, what you wouldn't believe. But we're not discussing a contract. I know the Secretary of State is trying to distract us, and all we needed was who was dressed in an internal meeting to know. The point is called the situation at the Justice Department, not about who made the demand procedure in one. I know it's good for you to be here for 28 minutes listening to who's been calling that the Secretary of State thought about how she's gonna handle it. Then they called each other in charge of the Ministry. Why not, but that's something we don't care about. You stay outside, we'll be out of you, and please, what are you saying? [[Laughs in the hall.]] I don't know if this is it. You guys were clapping so hard. I don't want to be a part of the Ministry of Justice's internal board meeting either live or reconstructed. That's not the point. I know you're trying to distract me, but I assure you, we're not gonna be fooled, and we're not gonna ask who else was there, if there was an internal counseling attendance, what anyone said, what they looked like, who was in a good mood and who wasn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u37	I thank my colleague Stanjur. Mr Zlatuška, with a point of fact. After that, I'm still registering further factual remarks. A colleague of Chalupa with a proper application - do I understand that? In fact, too. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u38	I would ask, Mr President, if you would tell Mr Stanjur that I am not going to stay here and listen to Mr Štern. It is enough for me to compare what I have from the media, what Mr Michálek did and what Mr Štern did, and I responded in my comment only to what Mr Blažek said. Otherwise, I am of the opinion that public contracts are to be prepared in houses that are made of glass and are visible in them for every detail in the preparation. What is not to be seen are companies that prepare their offers. But where a public institution is preparing demand in order to get the most appropriate price and behave most economically in terms of the state budget and in terms of how much the public sector gets for money spent, it's supposed to be completely transparent, and there's no such secrecy here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u39	Thank you. Now, with Mr Chalupa's point of fact, then Mr Schwarz with a point of fact, then Minister Válková, and then the priority right of Mr - but he is registered, my colleague, please don't yell at me. [[comment in the hall]] I've got Mr. Štern marked as being duly registered. I have factual remarks and priority rights now. Please, Member Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u40	Unlike my fellow Members, I believe that we are debating and debating how this state deals with taxpayers' money. What my colleague Zlatuška said here about public procurement being in glass houses, that goes for it. It's transparent. And I'm very interested to know who put that prep in that survey that those things from the market survey would be classified. I don't understand why this was done. There was a fall last night, someone here said why we were elected. We were elected, we sitting here in front of you were elected to defend taxpayers' rights, and this is one of the things why we are sitting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Schwarz, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u42	Good evening - it's early evening. I would like to ask Mr Stanjura's President through the Vice-President that we are dealing with the Ministry of Justice, so I really do not understand it, I can make it in two minutes, so why did you vote in favour of wanting to hear the Deputy Minister's speech if you don't really care. You said you didn't want to deal with it, that you're dealing with the entire ministry, but you voted for it. I'm telling you, so you don't have to get on the mic, explain it to me in the galleys. I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Now, therefore, a factual point: Minister Válková, then again Mr Stanjura, colleague Adamec, then we will get to the priority and proper applications. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly now. I don't understand either. I assumed that this was a fair negotiation and that you included this point precisely because of what happened in the last few days at the Ministry of Justice, why we are standing here, why Mr. Deputy Štern is getting a vote, so I don't understand why you were so bored with the detailed appearance of events and why you're giving it a negative sign here that I'm distracting someone. I guess I'm really politically naive, but I'm happy to stay like this all the time in my mandate, because I assume that when something votes, it's about what's being voted on, not about what somebody's making up and then presenting under a completely different name. But in the past, it has happened several times that under a point that was called different, something completely different has been discussed. I couldn't agree with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u45	Okay, thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Before he starts talking, Mr. Faltýnek with a factual - or with a proper application with priority rights? With due priority rights. Okay. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u46	The opposite is true. It's an experienced, common, tried political trick - distracting. If anyone was a political rookie, they just don't use it and they don't. The second trick is when someone criticizes me, I say, "I'm a rookie, so what do you want me to do?" I'm just learning. So don't be crazy, I mean it well. Mr Chalupa asked so suggestively: "I wonder who is to blame. " Well, we don't. We don't run the Justice Department. [[Loud applause for Mr Laudat.]] Here's your secretary. Then ask her who's to blame. And you can do that, like, at your MP's club. Yesterday you expressed your support for her, and today you're asking who's to blame. Well, it's the Minister of Justice's fault, because, as she rightly said, she's responsible for everything in that department. [[Member Chalupa is yelling something out of his desk.]] My colleague, my colleague -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u47	Please don't shout at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u48	I'm not yelling at anyone. There's an MP screaming, he's losing his temper. I honestly tried to answer his question, who was to blame. I'm so sorry. Then don't ask next time, and I won't answer you. Mr Schwarz said he didn't understand. I'm so sorry. Madam Secretary doesn't understand either. But that point is not a discussion of how to conduct market research on the upcoming electronic bracelet procurement. You'd be absolutely right. It is also not a discussion of what is happening at internal management meetings. It's called the Prime Minister's Information on the situation at the Ministry of Justice. The Prime Minister has begun information on the appeal of the Director General of the Prison Service. Not me. Your Prime Minister. Then your Prime Minister spoke of the departure of the First Deputy. Then your Prime Minister spoke of the appeal of another of your Deputys. I read your Prime Minister's statement in the paper yesterday - none of the opposition. Last chance, Madam Secretary. One last time. And if we don't, we don't know what we don't know, the Prime Minister hasn't told me to be fair, I don't know how long you've had that yellow card. Yesterday you said it wasn't a yellow card. I don't know what that is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u49	Mr President, you have run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u50	Thank you, Mr President. It's because they blew up at me, and they took away valuable seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u51	I was also a tolerance myself. So now, with a factual remark, Mr Adamec, as he was registered. I believe he'll get into preferential rights as well. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, briefly and politically, when we talk about these public procurements, this transparent crystal house. There's a serious problem. All public institutions must issue a public document, and it is a budget, whether state or simply the company that uses public money from the city or the municipality. And that's where the amounts that are based are, unfortunately. I wish they weren't there, but they're there, and they're based on some prices calculated from some design by an architect, a designer. So it's not exactly that. And I certainly don't share the view that a company that tells you some price in the survey that it's going to compete at that price, that's definitely not the case after my experience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u53	Thank you. Now, Mr Zlatuška, once again, with a point of fact. Then another factual comment by my colleague Kořenko. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in another factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u54	Mr President, two things about Mr Stanjur. First of all, the Minister's speech and presentation here was at the direct call of colleague Stanjura, Mr Blažek, so that his trial was very imperfect. And then given how anyone learns how to behave as an MP. I'm kind of a professional and a trainee's mission, so I'd point out that I'm the Minister's statement that he's a rookie doesn't understand how she can walk in it, in the real policy to be done for the citizens, worse than Stanjura-type matadors. I understood the statement that even though he's a rookie, and he does it without tricks of political scribbles, he behaves better than those who have been sitting here for a long time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u55	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Kořenek now, then Mr Hájek's de facto colleague. Mr Kořenek, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u56	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am not going to do either an arbitrator or a judge, but I am merely allowing it to be said here, to quote Act 137 on public procurement, where in Section 71, where there is talk of a commission for opening envelopes, if that is the case, in paragraph 1. The Commission's members are obliged to observe the facts they have learned in connection with their participation in the Commission, Section 75 for the members of the evaluation committee in paragraph 2. 6 shall apply mutatis mutandis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u57	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Hájek, then, a factual remark from Minister Válková. Please, colleague, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u58	Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, I have been monitoring the Minister for several months and has my great admiration. [[laughter of ČSSD Members and applause of TOP Members 09]] He's got my great admiration! Really, what this fragile woman can do. Really, I've worked with a lot of guys. You know what my original profession was. He's really a person who has my respect, and not only my respect, he really has my support, everyone's support, because he's going against everyone in quotes, because here it shows what politics is. When I had a meeting in our region, Mrs Halíková always says to me: Mr Hájek, do not say that you are not a politician, you are a politician already. Yes, I admit, I'm a politician, but I'm still with the heart of a citizen. That means I'm here as a citizen first. All the time! Still, that means politician, but with the heart of a citizen. [[He speaks loudly and loudly.]] And the citizens certainly support what our Madam Secretary is doing. That means, even if she goes against everyone, she's fighting for the right thing, and I'd like to support her in her fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u59	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Minister Válková on the point of fact and then the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, unless another factual point is made, then Mr Faltýnek also has priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, but I see that most people are already bored of it. I just wanted to point out that this is a market survey, not an opening of envelopes within the framework of a public procurement procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u61	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, Mr. and Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. A colleague of Faltýnek will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to assure Mr Hájek that although I have been a politician for many years, I have never given up my civil rights and I also feel like a citizen of this state. But that's not why I wanted to get out. First of all, I wanted to thank the Minister, although she did not convince me of her extensive speech and did not answer my doubts about the point, so she certainly devoted herself to him with great detail and energy, and I thank him for that. However, I would like to draw attention to what some of my previous speakers have pointed out. That item is called Information of the Prime Minister on the situation at the Ministry of Justice. I don't know about our colleagues, but I really don't feel fit to whistle right now, whether the tender was very transparent or not transparent or how transparent, after all, it will be addressed to the UOHS, possibly. submission to law enforcement authorities has also been made. This will also be dealt with by law enforcement authorities. But what concerns us and why we really wanted to place the point is how professionally and with what personnel competence the Ministry is managed if there is a scandal behind the scandal. I, Madam Secretary, will wait for you to deal with President Faltýnek. I'm trying to reach out to you more or less, so I won't disturb you in your private conversation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u63	Of course, I can ask that individual colleagues take their seats, or discussions that are not related to the subject, to be transferred to the pre-show, and as soon as there is peace, you can continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u64	One more time, then. It is a serious doubt about the expertise and, in particular, the personnel competence of the Ministry, the very important ministry, being managed when there is, in fact, constantly, individual scandals in relation to you and your closest collaborators. I say this taking into account the fact that, of course, the Minister bears full political responsibility for the selection of his co-workers himself. Yes, the CEO was in the service, and let's say you inherited him, Madam Secretary. But you chose the new recruits yourself, you decided to appoint them, you named them, and you put together a team with which you convinced us, the Chamber of Deputies, when you asked for confidence that this team would be able to manage the Justice Department in a competent way. Please nicely, it will not stand up to the objection that one or the deputy is the nominee of one or the coalition party. This may be taken into account, but it does not relieve the Minister of responsibility for choosing the person and for choosing him. I would like to present an example of my own practice. In 2010, I suspect his name was Wagenknecht, convinced Vít Bárta to nominate him to the Ministry of Finance as my deputy nominated for Public Affairs. After studying the properties of this man, I refused to let the Ministry disrupt me, no one in the world forced me to name him, even though he was the official nominee for Public Affairs. That four years later he convinced Minister Babiš and appointed him Minister Babiš, that is simply the responsibility of Minister Babiš and his full right, but no one could order him to do so, just as no one could order me to appoint him, and just as no one, Madam Secretary, could order you to appoint Hana Marvanová, Master Štern or anyone else. If you're saying today that you've chosen people you're not able to work with, then it's simply a fundamental failure of a management officer in personnel competence, which is crucial. You know, the Deputy Minister of Justice, who goes to the Police of the Czech Republic to report to his Minister of Justice, that is, I admit, strong coffee even for me, a very old and tough memorial. I can only think of three options: either you did something so crucial that the move was necessary, or the deputy is insane, or it's some terrible misunderstanding. Except in the case of a variant that the Deputy is insane, the other two options are your full responsibility, Madam Secretary. If there's a misunderstanding like this, regardless of the fact that it's not excluded that you've actually committed something, then it's simply the failure of the manager. Repeated failure of the controller in the personnel area. And we really want to ask how that could have happened. On what basis did you decide when choosing the people you wanted to put together a functional team to break up with them under such dramatic circumstances? Who's next? And what happens next? What will the Ministry look like if it looks like this for four months, what are we constantly watching one mess after another at the Justice Department? That's what worries us. Not if the meeting started 15 minutes later or not. I would like to thank you, just as I thank you for your performance, as well as Master Štern, for coming, because it really concerns us, and we would very much like to have him tell us his point of view on the matter, and I think it will be very helpful to us in the picture of how the Ministry was managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u65	Thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Of course, my colleague Štern must wait because I have other applications. I have three factual applications, at this time Mr Blažek, Mr Štětina and Mr Zlatuška, then Mr Faltýnek's priority right, then Mr Štern is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u66	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, to Mr Hájek. It is not entirely easy to agree on what politics is. We can beat each other's hearts, our minds, and I don't know where. But I said clearly in my speech what should not be in politics should not be a part of it, and unfortunately it is in the long run, and that is the abuse of criminal law in political fights. That means, I'll file a criminal report, I'll give it to the press, and that person is as soon as they say in Ostrava, suspect, that's a very common word. The second thing I don't like very much is media campaigns. When they just use the media targeted for something or someone to get blackened. If you do not understand this, by your means, Mr President, by the way, I have stood up for your Minister, with whom I will argue about a lot of things. If he ever leaves, let him leave in a different way than these ugly methods! That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u67	Thank you for keeping time. And since it's coming at 6:00 p.m., before my colleague Štětina, I'll read the apologies to do my duty. As of 18:00 Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes, Mr Běhounek, on account of the Senate meeting and Mr Podivínský since 18:30. Now, then, colleague Štětina, on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u68	Good evening. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have long considered whether to perform or not to perform, but many words have been said here, some I may consider to be offensive. Something has been said here about some Mr. Knecht Wagenknecht and that sort of thing. Of course, I experienced some such insults on my own in the last House because we were called slime, chucpum, and I don't know what else. But that's not the point. I was intrigued by two things. First, who's to blame, and second, expertise. I'll start with expertise. If, then, a person who is academically erudized and has a degree as professor, and who else has allowed himself to open a case in Pilsen, where we have produced real experts in a few months, then if this person is not an expert, then who should it be? I guess it wasn't approved by some who were involved in the state we were in. [[18.00 hours]] I think that those Members who are new today - and I beg you, I know I'm gonna get scolded at the door again, that he's sad about me, but I don't give a damn - I don't think it's the new Members' fault that this state is being robbed like this. And I'm afraid, and that's the conclusion of my short contribution, that's the main reason that the secretary dared to poke a hornet's nest. And that's probably the main reason, and we can't let that happen without knowing who's really to blame. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I still have two factual points, Mr Zlatuška and then Mr Jandák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u70	Mr President, a moment ago, my colleague Kalousek spoke if you would try to explain to him - he does not have much experience with any real action. He was referring here to some civil rights, but from what I can remember, he was in politics. He did not manage wisely, so he probably does not know that at the moment when he accepts a person, of course, he has very limited ability to examine his profile. But it's not like hiring into a gang of criminals where the moment those criminals find themselves together, they're already stuck together and won't let go. The manager, when he takes the subordinate and finds out that the subordinate had some kind of ceiling on his abilities, and then he does either things that aren't compatible with the job, or he runs into the media, and I don't know what else, so the responsible manager will draw the consequences from it, and he'll throw the person out. Accepting someone based on limited experience in the admission process does not give the person tenure and impunity. The same is needed with admission to study, where a number of students who pass entrance exams also think they are already entitled to a diploma. It's not like that. That entrance is always a part of it. But, as I said, Mr President, my colleague Kalousek does not have much experience with the normal managerial work, so perhaps this clarification here can help him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u71	Your time is up, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u72	I definitely think the secretary acted exactly like the manager did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u73	Please follow the rules of procedure. Thank you. Now, two more factual points before I give the floor to my colleague Faltýnek. A colleague of Jandák and then a colleague of Kučera. So, I believe that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u74	I will be very brief, thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, don't worry, I won't kick you. You know, what I'm about to say, I'd be heading towards the person I love. His name is Mirek Kalousek, he's gone. And I like him. I kind of look at him with admiration. But what did I experience when I became Minister? We're always talking about personnel policy, that brilliance, how to pick experts. It was the afternoon, I became a minister. And what does a man do? So he walks around the office, there's a big one, because the Czech culture is big, and suddenly I find a door. I opened the door, he was early in the evening, evening, and I got scared. That's where the guy was. A bearded man. I say, "Jesus Christ, man, what are you doing here?" He said, "I'm sorry, I'm your deputy." . [[Laughs from all over the hall]] I said, "You're my deputy? Get up when you talk to me!" So he got up because he was in his pajamas, and I'm like, "Who are you guys?" He said, "I'm Mr. Kalousek's nominator of KDU-ČSL." What does that mean...? [[Laugh and applause from all over the hall.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u75	Well, thank you for keeping time. Let's keep going. A point of fact, Mr. Kučera. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u76	Thank you for the word, I'm going to be very difficult to perform after the acting sketch we've seen here. However, I would have had a reaction to my previous speaker, Mr Zlatuška, through Mr President. You know, Mr. Colleague, I've worked in this top management for about 20 years, unlike you in real manufacturing companies and private-owned companies. And I can tell you that if I, as a company manager, had three people leave my top management in four months, top managers, I can tell you that would probably be my last decision in this company. And that the board of directors of this company would call me off for an hour - for an hour - for an hour. Because I'm responsible for choosing top managers as CEO. No one else. Only me as CEO. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u77	Thank you. Now the factual points - Mr Hájek, colleague Pospíšil and Madam Secretary. Okay. There. [[Outside the microphone, the chairman of the club of the ANO movement is responding that he has also been logged in.]] I signed you up with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u78	I am sorry, Mr President, but unfortunately I had to respond. I don't know what big company Mr. Kučera worked in, I worked at OKD at the firm or on a shaft that had 5,000 people. And the director -- there were seven of us in management, and he called off three over the course of the year. He called off three even though he chose them. He chose them, they had his full trust, but either he didn't do his homework, or he didn't do his job, so for political reasons, he took him out in quotes because he needed to calm the situation, but that's what I'm talking about about the shaft, so he just called off the three Deputys. And the principal stayed there for the next five years, and he was even promoted. He even got promoted and became operational director today. I'm here to greet him, of course, Mr. Director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u79	Now, then, the factual remark made by Minister Válková, then by Mr Faltýnek, with a proper application with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u80	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to point out once again here that I would repeat my steps that I have taken as I did in the past, because I think that the Deputys who will not succeed must be replaced. And I myself built a company from zero, which is known especially by lawyers - the publishing C H Beck. Since 1993, I have actually led him as CEO, when he then had 53 employees. The moment one of my close associates failed, he was quite radically replaced. I've never met anyone who fought back. Neither in court nor in any other way. The company was very successful, we never had a financial problem to the extent that we would have to deal with the layoff of ordinary employees. So I think that as a manager, I gave work to 53 people, and I contributed in a way to the cultivation of legal culture through the products we were publishing. I don't think I'm inexperienced. I know I may have made a mistake underestimating some of my first deputy. As far as expertise is concerned, I think that in the area of enforcement and insolvency that I chose her for, she has the substantive competence. As for Deputy Štern, he was nominated for social democracy. Of course, I agreed to it. I didn't have a reason. I've known him in the past as a competent and honest man. The more I regretd this moral failure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u81	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, Mr.Faltýnek and then Štern is registered. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u82	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. It is a good thing that Deputy Štern will perform after me. Because I'm sorry, but from my point of view, the debate, whether it's from the right, from the left, from the center, isn't entirely correct towards him. I don't know the deputy. I have spoken several times in the media on the basis of Professor Válková's opinion, who informed us at the club about this procedure and repeated it to the media several times. And it's perfectly clear to a normal person. I asked Minister Dienstbier on the radio this morning if he would cooperate with his deputy, who would make a criminal complaint against him and then inform the press or the Prime Minister or any other minister or director of the company. I would have fired him the first minute after he did this to me as director of the firm. And I've driven quite a lot in 20 years, in 30 years. And it didn't happen to me once! But this discussion is incorrect with the Deputy Minister. Let's not continue with it, please. And the arguments that were put forward by Minister Dienstbier, that confidentiality, violation and so on... You need to read the documents properly, my friends. I'm begging you. Before we express ourselves, let's read it. Professor Válková here read what was written in this demand procedure, signed and so forth. It wasn't a tender, it was a preparation for this tender. But the main message on my part is that, and that's why we gave our secretary's support, some of you will remember historically back that there were several different cases. I can only remember at random: parachutes, migas, lifeca, OKD, pandury, tatry, bingo, casy, promopra. And the debate, when these cases were dealt with, was interesting in the fact that some ministers said, "Well, we don't know anything about it. It's our subordinates." And this is what we want to change! That's it! It's as simple as that. And when we look at the development of bracelets, in 2011, Minister Pospíšil, who had just left, considered a sum of 2 billion. 10 years' worth of crowns. Let's be objective. Let's not make this a misleading argument. And today we're talking about half the amount. So please let's be fair to each other and use verified data. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u83	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. We are getting back to the debate that is ready. Mr Štern in front of Ms Bebarová and Mr Kort. Please, Mr. Ex-Deputy, you have the floor. [[ANO Members are leaving the hall.]] You may speak, Master Master.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to this sitting so that I can explain my position or reasons for my actions and for my decision. I'm sorry, I might be a little chronological, because things need to be chronologically described. As far as the electronic monitoring project is concerned, this project, as has already been said here, was approved at the meeting of the Minister's management on 10 March this year. An intention was approved, a concept consisting of the fact that the Probation and Mediation Service would be the realizer of the future public contract. Given that the Probation and Mediation Service should also be a user of the device, and also given that the Probation and Mediation Service has the greatest experience with this system including the conducted experiment in 2012, the exact timetable of the entire project including, of course, the market survey discussed here was approved. In the framework of this consultation, it was also approved that a working group would be established in the framework of the Probation and Mediation Service. The working group will be complemented by the staff of the Ministry of Justice. Deputy Minister for Prisons and Criminal Policy, as a gestureary deputy, will supervise the entire project, will, of course, communicate and coordinate any other activities of the working group. At the management meeting in each minutes there was information about the project as the timetable was running. In short, clear rules have been laid down on how the project will be prepared, on how the conditions for the procurement procedure will be prepared, on how all subsequent steps will be taken. According to the timetable, it was perfectly accurate. A working group has been set up. It was supplemented by three representatives of the Ministry of Justice, advisor to the Minister, auditor Ing. Viktora, to have someone very close to the Minister there for the sake of transparency. There was a representative of the IT department and then the head of the Public Procurement Department at the Ministry of Justice was delegated there. As regards market research. As you all know, if a public contract is being prepared, it is necessary to establish the estimated value of the public contract. The estimated value must be determined in some qualified way, such as market research. In the case of an electronic monitoring system, for example, market research cannot be done on the Internet because none of the companies supplying or producing these products discloses any such information on the Internet. It's a business secret. I would like to inform you that last year, in January 2013, when a previous public electronic monitoring contract was being prepared, which was subsequently cancelled for overpriced risks for amnesty reasons, a seminar organized by the Probation and Mediation Service together with the Ministry of Justice, where representatives of potential suppliers were invited, took place in January. There were about fifteen or sixteen representatives of various companies. When asked if the representatives in question could at least give information about the price of the goods or services offered, no one said anything. Of course, for understandable reasons, they didn't want to reveal anything to the competition. Therefore, the market survey had to be carried out in the form of an open market survey, where the Probation and Mediation Service essentially drafted the subject matter of the contract, which means that it introduced potential suppliers to what will be the subject of the procurement procedure and what will be the specific competition. I would remind you that within the approved concept it was approved that it would be a rental, that it would be a number of 400 to 800 monitoring devices. This was based on an evaluation of the whole situation after the previous tender, based on a qualified estimate made by the Probation and Mediation Service as regards the depositories of the house arrest sentence or house arrest measures under conditional release. At the same time, this took place in the autumn of last year, a survey was conducted among all criminal judges on how to use the house arrest penalty if electronic monitoring was introduced. On the basis of these qualified data, the need has been established, which is a key issue for a public contract. [[18.20 hours]] Now I'm going back to the market research. It was conceived as an open market survey. The suppliers were actually familiar with the details of what will be the subject of the competition and were asked to be valued, i.e. about the price offer. Part of this request, as quoted here, was the commitment of the Probation Mediation Service that all data on the price offers to be made available to the supplier would be used exclusively by the contracting authority for internal use, for the determination of the estimated value and within the working group, within the framework of the project. There were even companies that specifically asked about it, and they were very concerned that information about the price wouldn't get out. It's quite understandable. I stress that electronic monitoring, although generally presented by manufacturers and recommenders as an extremely lucrative and financially advantageous issue, is simply not an inexpensive issue and costs some money. And it is very important, which is, after all, also needed in the Council of Europe's recommendation on electronic monitoring, that electronic monitoring must fit precisely into the criminal policy system and criminal sanctions system in order to be functional, effective and targeted at a specific target group of criminals. This is an important argument because it has an important economic connection. I'm going back to the market research. In fact, all the participants in the seminar I was talking about were served on the basis of the presentation paper. At the same time, other potential suppliers from among the companies that showed interest in this system during the last year or this year. As part of the market investigation, a commitment was made that the information would not be submitted to third parties. Tenders were delivered, their evaluation was also carried out. As part of the Probation and Mediation Service, only one person worked with offers, no one else had access to them. The head of the legal department, who is also an expert not only on public procurement but also on electronic monitoring, carried out an evaluation and then a presentation was made for members of the working group on the outcome of market research. The presentation presented information and offers in a narrow form, and at the same time there was information on what the estimated value of the potential contract would look like. All the participants in the presentation signed a non-disclosure obligation, and at the same time no one was allowed to take notes. The result of the market survey was a document mentioned here by the Minister, who was properly referred to me by the Probation and Mediation Service. I have properly forwarded it to the Minister in the framework of the file service, along with all the other documents he requested, and part of this was a request for the results to be approved, at the same time laying down budgetary measures. A logical step, if the secretary here says she didn't see the price above, would be to request a meeting with the working group and ask questions she doesn't understand. Which she doesn't know. The argument that the price is too high, or the 105 million as if the highest limit of the estimated value, is not correct. There is, for your information, an organisation called the European Probation Organisation that brings together all the probation services in Europe. This organisation issues regular statistics every two years on electronic monitoring systems in each Member State and issues price information. About the price for one bracelet. Here we're talking about the price of the bracelet, 150 crowns, which is, like, the key value, which then creates the total sum. I would like to point out that 150 kroner, you can deduct another 50 kroner from this, because the conviction of house arrest must pay 50 kroner obligatory, or the real price is 100 kroner. And above all, the price corresponds to the European average. If you look at the table, you can get it available, this figure is transparent, public, so the price is there ranging from 2.5 euros, but also up to 50 or 60 euros, because the price for the bracelet includes different attributes including the cost of the probation officer's work and other things. These are, in particular, Scandinavian countries. So what's here in this market survey isn't an overpriced price, it's an honest price, totally transparent. So much for the price. Now I'm getting to the next thing. I said the rules were clearly set how the project and preparation will be done, then the tender will take place. By the way, that also regulates the Ministry's internal public procurement instructions regarding the relationship between the organisational component and the Ministry of Justice. In fact, during the course of the months, whether it concerns April, especially May, the Minister's gradual etching of the rules that have been set gradually began to take place. For example, it came to my attention that it asked for three representatives of the Probation and Mediation Service to be appointed to the working group, although the working group, as was said at the management meeting, would actually be proposed by the Probation and Mediation Service and have already been approved. Plus, add three more inmates to the Prison Service. I was trying to explain to the Minister that the process was already set up and that it was enough to fill those people in, not create a new structure. As far as the price information is concerned, Madam Secretary got this official document. There was no discussion with us. Madam Secretary called me and said she wanted the quote. I explained to the Minister why this could not be done, and I offered her that we could implement the form of presentation, commissionally, formally, with registration, but not in some Trinity without any formal negotiations. And so are the representatives of the working group, the Probation and Mediation Services. I thought we had a preliminary agreement on this, but the next day I received a written request that the Minister request written offers. I responded to it in writing, I wrote clear information, I explained why it couldn't be done. That there's a commitment, there's just a rule, that's why there's no offer. And, of course, I sent this to the Minister in writing. The result was that the Secretary of State contacted the Director of the Probation and Mediation Services without my knowledge and asked her not to tell me about it, so I wouldn't be informed. And I just want to say, for me, it was just the last straw, because these things gradually accumulated in that, as the system was set up, the secretary told me, It's not transparent enough, other people have to enter, so we're going to do it, we're going to add more people from the Prison Service, from the Institute for Criminology and Social Prevention, so the structure, as it was set up, has gradually started to change completely. This means that I was actually in a situation where I, as the deputy, was responsible, was gradually cut off from it, so to speak. Gradually, my powers were taken from me. [[18.30 hours]] I'd like to say that this wasn't the first time around. I, as Deputy Prisoner, was, if I give an example, to hug, for example, as regards the appeal of the Director General of the Prison Service. I wasn't informed about it in advance. Madam Secretary told me that he was going to go with him to solve the results of the file inspection, that I didn't have to be there, and in the meantime, his appeal took place. I learned it from the media. I learned about the tender for the new Director General of the Prison Service from the Internet, and then, as it was going on, I learned from the secretary. As Deputy Prisoner. Once again, I learned about the change of deputys in the Prison Service. And I wasn't the only one walking around like this. Anyway, Mrs. First Deputy Marvanová was surrounded, where the secretary of her subordinates behind her back gave orders, essentially, against the decision of the First Deputy. So it's a whole series of steps like this. We at the Ministry discussed at the meeting the topic of the Justice portal, which was presented there, which is supposed to cost 40 million. The Deputy Minister and I pointed out that the price seems really excessive to us for the fact that the justice portal will cost $40 million. We asked in the written comments for an explanation of why market research had not been carried out. And I just want to say that we certainly haven't been doing a detailed analysis of the price. Madam Secretary said that it seemed okay to her - although 40 million for the justice portal at least raises a question. So the situation where the Secretary of State didn't communicate with me, bypassed me, telephoned the Director of the Probation Service, asked her to make a written offer instead of meeting me, the working group, the things we discussed in a matter of fact, it was settled, so it was just a request from me. And it's been repeated. I was repeatedly asked only to make written offers. Honestly, it just seemed suspicious to me, for me it was over and over in the sum of all the other steps. That's why I did what I did, and I was filing for anti-corruption police, where I gave an explanation, and I informed the media because I wanted this thing to be dealt with publicly. For me, the thing is, there was a rule set here that I wanted to keep. I've been pressured to break the rule that the Minister has the right to know. But the principle of the situation was that if a commitment was made to those companies, to potential suppliers, that commitment was to be respected. The procedure that was going on there was perfectly fine, it was completely transparent and we reached some qualified price. The fact that I refused to issue offers or to give the probation and mediation services an order to make those offers was there for that reason. It was just a rule that was laid down, and that rule was to be followed. Because the rule at that moment works as a law and applies to the Deputy Minister as well. And if someone's asking me to do that repeatedly, they're pushing me, I just think it's suspicious. And it was just the price offers. That's all, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u85	Thank you, Mr. Mgr Štern. Before proper applications, even factual remarks - Mr Faltýnek, Minister Válková, Mr Pospíšil. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u86	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, just a brief response to Mr. Deputy, former. He said he didn't want to provide information out here! Out! So the secretary's out there, she's not part of the ministry! She doesn't have the responsibility. She doesn't have the responsibility of the deputy. Okay. Next thing. When I'm listening to it, I've only just realized that the survey is being done, and - it's already been said a few times by colleagues of previous speakers - that the survey sucks! The real prize is going to be a tender! The selection procedure with one criterion and that is the minimum price. And that's it. And the Deputy Director has already organised several tenders in the past. And there wasn't any! So maybe it's a good thing when the tender was canceled and it was organized by the Ministry and someone who was competent! I mean, there were two of them, and he was sitting there! And how it turned out. That's what former ministers could tell us, how it turned out and why it turned out, like a colleague named Blažek, who performed here several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u87	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Minister Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief, and it is also a factual point, but to the absent Mr Štern. Too bad. First of all, I am completely shocked, and in this regard I probably deserve criticism that I am only here to learn that it was one single employee of the Probation and Mediation Service, an experienced lawyer and specialist who was familiar with specific offers. I assumed it was at least a working group! And now it's clear to me that the term "aggregated price" and what one of the members of the working group told me, as well as Mr Viktora, that it was just the general data they received without the specifications. So here we figured out - that's transparency, that's where we're going, that's what we want to do: make one single person decide on the price that will determine the contract? So that's not how I imagine it, and I see my responsibility in a completely different way! And what has been said here by the previous speaker, Mr Faltýnek, can be underlined three times. I'm definitely not gonna be the one who's gonna let the electronic bracelets end up like they did in the previous years, that is. a fiasco.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u89	Thank you. With a factual remark, my colleague Pospíšil. I see more applications. A colleague named Fiedler is registered to a colleague named Pospíšil, who applied at the beginning of the performance. I see applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. I didn't even want to get off because I know all those involved in this tragedy very well, and I have a personal opinion about it. But since the chairman of the Faltýnek Club challenged me here, let me make two brief remarks. First, one thing. I was Minister of Justice for five years, and I know both former Deputy Minister Štern and former Deputy Minister Marvanová, and former Director General Dohnal very well. Everyone under me worked, everyone worked successfully, I never had a problem with them. This may, of course, be a question of subjective perspective and my naturel, but since it is so many subordinates, I guess the error is somewhere else than it is with them. Now allow me to respond to President Faltýnek through you, Mr President. He said something in the spirit that I might have wanted bracelets for two billion crowns. I am precisely because of the fact that I found the price range very high, he withdrew from the possibility that electronic bracelets would be introduced, and I voted for a different option. I ask President Faltýnek to take a look at my conversations from that time when I am also being publicized, why I am withdrawing from consideration to introduce electronic bracelets and why I am addressing and seeking a different option. So I didn't want to spend any two billion in this form. And they're paying for the thesis that the secretary said. The technique develops so quickly, improves and, above all, makes it cheaper that the then priced session cannot be taken for today at all. There are really, let's say, several times the price that they were a few years ago, when the general academic debate was going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u91	I thank Mr Pospíšil. Mr Fiedler's point of order, then Mr Hájek. And I'm asking the club presidents -- properly. So is my colleague Mihola. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u92	Good evening, Mr President, colleagues. Mr. Deputy Štern is no longer here, so it will be more of a dime question on my part. So I'm going to try to keep to the content that this is a factual point. So I was interested in his speech, where he first said that they were addressing companies that did not want to tell them in advance any price offer, that it simply could not be done, and then I heard in the speech, now I do not know if I am saying this, Madam Secretary correctly, the European probation and mediation service, which provided information on average prices in Europe. So why were they looking so hard for the price, when they were essentially given the price, they were average, so what was the secret? Or what was so difficult to find out? I really didn't understand that speech! And then I was very shocked here - because I was working in a private firm where it was very hard and consistently tendered, and it was really uncomfortable how we were forced to do it, and I have to admit this at the same time - and I was very surprised by Deputy Štern's speech, and the Minister mentioned it here that he had information about prices, price offers, if I understood it correctly, even one single person. That's a pretty startling discovery for me. And I don't get it at all, in a company that someone is managing, I would assume that the manager, the head of the firm, will want to know all the price offers and will want to be able to decide, so I'm surprised that the head of office shouldn't have been informed about this information. This is also quite surprising and serious information for me. Time is running out, so just one last question -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u93	It's coming down, Mr. Ambassador!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u94	Why was there a rule on price secrecy laid down? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u95	Now, Mr Hájek, a colleague, Mr Mackovík, will be prepared. Both with a factual remark. Then the final factual comment by my colleague Blažek, then the priority rights, then perhaps a normal discussion. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u96	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, Mr Kalousek here has spoken that he has 20 years of experience in politics. I have about 35 years of manufacturing experience, and I can tell you from my personal experience - not personal experience, but from the assumption of how it would be handled in production. That means, if the director found out there was a problem, he would have asked that my service phone's calls be made public, if I were possibly the deputy who, according to the director, had been in error. I mean, I had a service phone, I'm sure he'd have a right, and I'm sure the principal would have done it to check my calls. I'm asking, and I'd like to ask Deputy Štern, if he'd be so kind as to look into his phone records during the period when he became Deputy, to show that he really is the Jan Hus who is fighting for the right thing or is in the faith of some dark forces. I can't tell, but I think it's correct. I don't want to set up another parliamentary committee here, which I'm sure would have access to these calls, but it's fair. If this man has a clear conscience, I think he'd show it. If anyone asks me to make a call statement, of course I'm also ready to comply and make the calls available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u97	Thank you. Now, Mr Blažek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u98	Thank you for the floor. I will try very briefly after my colleague Faltýnek's call - I am getting older, so there are some numbers and dates, please don't ask me to do that, the papers are certainly at the Ministry, everything as the tender was. We spent a lot of time making these bracelets happen, even by convincing the judge to impose the punishments. There's no need for bracelets without the punishment. But the truth is, when the whole proceedings developed, there was a lot of controversy between Mr. Štern's former probation officer and two Deputys, which was the way that when the Deputys prepared a concept, Mr. Štern basically always blocked it and wrote me various letters that it shouldn't be. I wasn't able or willing to judge who was right, so I just said at the meetings, "Bring the paper with the signatures of all three of you, that's Štern, then Daňhel and Volák, or it won't be a tender." The amnesty came into this and for these two reasons I cancelled the tender. No numbers, etc. It wasn't, I'd be lying to you here, and I really don't remember the numbers. As for the decision of the Minister without Deputys, here I will be happy to tell you how I made the decision to appoint Dr. Bradáčová to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Prague. I didn't want anyone to know, so I had two decisions prepared by the then department: one satisfactory, one inadequate. I've known how to do this for some time now, but no one in the Ministry knew, including the deputy. There are just certain things the minister has to do alone and does without the deputy. For reasons I don't want to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u99	Thank you for keeping time. Now one final point of fact, Mr Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u100	Have a good evening again. I'm going back to what I said about three quarters of an hour ago. The case has two planes - one is very trivial, it would solve the paper if someone ever signed and entered into any contractual obligation with those companies that data will not be provided to third parties, it is total banality. And if it was signed, it simply couldn't be provided, because the law applies to everyone, whether it's the minister or the deputy, or whoever. It's completely different, then it's the Ministry's management. The moment the Minister had doubts, I imagine he has very simple means to lift the tender and start it from scratch. The fact that we're bringing in a political plane from a variety of points of view is one thing, but this is simple, trivial, in quotes, as God's word, and all of us who are in competitions, we just know the situation that if I, as mayor, had a tender on trams, wasn't a member of the selection committee, they came up with some offers, and I asked for them, I just wouldn't have the right to. I'm afraid so. At the same time, on the other hand, I can't imagine that this behavior would be rational to run immediately to some anti-corruption police, because that's extreme number two again. Everything else around here is just a show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u101	Thank you. Now priority rights. First, President Stanjura, then President Mihola, then Minister Dienstbier. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u102	Thank you for the floor. I didn't come forward with the facts to have a little more time and to respond to a lot of what was said here at about the last hour. Madam Secretary Válková criticizes, perhaps rightly, that one person should have known about the prices and one person to decide, so it is wrong. Well, I'm kind of signing it. But the arrival of the Minister of Transport inspired me. Yesterday you defended the principle that the prices of the purchased land will be decided by one single person, the Minister of Transport. But it's yours, it can, it's okay, but if it's someone else, it's wrong, and it's suspicious. I don't know, it should always be: one way or another. We're suggesting that one person doesn't do that. It's nothing personal. I'm sure the Minister of Transport will change sooner or later, but the authority will remain there. And tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, you will be able to confirm this opinion by voting, because one thing is proclamation and the other is real action and the results of the vote. We will vote on this on Friday in the third reading block, and I am already asking you to support our amendments, which withdraw the authority of one single person to decide on the prices of purchased land in the whole Czech Republic. President Faltýnek here quite fiery and loudly defended the principle that the boss should not make excuses for his subordinates that he should know everything. Again, it's a sentence that's hard to argue with. However, from an open source, we had nothing to do with this, I know that the company where you were chairman of the board, there are some charges against middle management workers, and you said: I don't know anything about it, don't ask me questions, those subordinates. So what's the deal? A) or b)? Again, in one case it suits us, the statement applies a), in the other case where it does not suit us, the statement pays b). I rather agree that the boss has full responsibility and chooses his staff. Mr Jandák's comparison was funny, but it was not accurate. He didn't choose the deputy who slept in the next room, maybe in his pajamas, if I remember his words correctly, so-called inherited, that the ministry had found out and the deputy was there. And it wasn't enough for Mr. former Minister Jandák to tell us whether he had been fired for good, or if it was just a funny story, and then the man was still sleeping there as deputy in his pajamas. Unfortunately, we didn't know that. But he didn't choose him. So that's another case. The secretary here hasn't inherited any of her deputies, she's voluntarily chosen them all. [[18.50 hours]] But I asked more important questions, in my opinion, about 140 minutes ago, and I asked both the Prime Minister and the Minister how she imagined her interference with the living cause. As she said herself voluntarily on live television on Czech TV. That's a thing that worries us a lot more than that, and I'm gonna be talking about it in a minute that we've heard from the secretary and her former deputy for prison today. And we didn't get the answer. That's why I'm talking about distracting. These were specific questions about this, other things that, in our opinion, are much more important and more serious than demand, or virtually. market research. Many Members have told us surprisingly that only when a public contract is published will the price be found. I don't know who it surprised, who it's new information for, but I have no choice but to agree. Many Members have spoken here about how a transparent public contract is to be made. But we're talking about market research. And I'm not defending anyone in this dispute. I understand that the crisis in the government coalition is deeper than I expected. And there'll probably be an election soon. Because otherwise it's not normal for individual Members to come here and tell their candle and say: I was the manager there and there, I had so many subordinates. Another MP comes in and says," it's nothing, my colleague - and it tells those people who hear it, those future employers - I've been the manager of the company longer, or we've had a bigger turnover, or we've had more employees or everything. So childish. Reminds me a little bit of a kindergarten who's gonna praise himself for being a better manager. I don't think the really good guys talk about it much, and when their former subordinates or their business partners talk about it. That sounds a lot better than this: do you want me? I'm an excellent manager. I'm in the House now, but I have so much driving experience. So if you happen to have an offer, I'm available. Now, about what we heard about the market research. Some rules were set in the beginning. Government Members, especially from the Minister's movement, say: these are not good rules. I'm not gonna use those expressive expressions like some of you. That's a bad setup. I agree with you again. For the fourth time in his performance. But the rules were passed, probably by the Secretary of State or at some meeting. The problem is different. They're supposed to follow principles. I set the rules wrong, maybe not transparently, but I didn't cancel the rules, and then I want to go around them. Strange. I'm sure it's not for the police. That's what we all agree on, and that's what we've been saying all day. In my opinion, the debate, and if you really want to evaluate what the situation is at the Justice Department, let's see the Secretary's speech, including the internal meeting, and the former Deputy Minister's speech. Well, it's enough for me to know that the Ministry is misguided. That's not normal. Such a detail in such uselessness is such a big dispute. That's not normal in a normal organization, whether it's called the ministry or whatever. Do you understand the principle of the dispute? The different, diametrically different attitudes? Well, we don't. I really, really don't. They all want to be transparent and even more transparent, they all mean it well and even better, but they can't work together. We don't understand that very well. Too škoda, we know the Prime Minister has been excused since 5:00, but he hasn't answered the questions either. Like if the government identifies with what the secretary wants, and those are the living cases. [[There's noise in the room.]] In the debate, I thought, Madam Secretary says he's not an experienced politician. Then he won't let me ask him directly again. [[Voice from the left side: Shh.]] I joined the political party in 1991. It's been 23 years. I would like to ask when the Secretary of State entered any political party, if this was not before 1991. [[laughter of some ČSSD Members]] And then we can... [[Comrade Komarek shouts: We can get homework.]] Those aren't homework. I'm not gonna do it. Like I'm gonna let Sklenák go, but I'm not gonna let go. It hasn't been logged in yet, President Sklenák. Sorry about the familial address. We shouldn't. [[Chairman Hamáček at the ČSSD bench - a reminder off the microphone.]] Not Mr. Chairman... Well, it was a deal without us. [[Messenger. A kalousek to the messenger. Stanjure in front of the speaker: That's procedural.]] Well, that's your deal, so I accept that you have a deal, but we're not involved in this deal, so don't want us to keep other deals. You really can't ask us to do that. So in two hours, when the Secretary-General comes to debate, you go to defend the steps, we learn nothing about what we wanted, about the Director-General of Prisons, nothing about how they ended up with the deputy she chose, and very little about what was actually the cause of the current dispute. Or at least for me, it's incomprehensible, the current dispute. However, to make it trivial again, that what Mr. former Deputy Štern said was completely invented, I do not think so. [[Members standing in front of the benches are very restless.]] I would like, through the Vice-President, to reassure the President of the House that I will release the duly registered President of the KDU Club, who will follow me immediately, do not be afraid to load his procedural proposal. I'm not saying this to artificially speak for five more minutes, and then he said to you, it's 19.01. We're done. Seriously, take it easy. We wanted to do it in the morning. We could've been through this a long time ago. We'll see. If you don't think I'm gonna report back to the debate, it might as well be, but I wouldn't be that optimistic. I would expect those who supported the inclusion of that point with us, and it was announced by President Faltýnek, if I'm not mistaken, after a meeting, which we also lost about 30 minutes, right, to be precise, that those who voted in favour of that point would propose a resolution. So I'm gonna let the Prime Minister of the KDU. I assure you that we have some motions for resolutions, we will put them forward and we will be happy to debate them before we vote. Prime Minister, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u103	Thank you to the chairman of the ODS Club. And now the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club, Mr. Jiří Mihola. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u104	Thank you for the space. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the two MPs, KDU-ČSL and ČSSD, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies act and vote on both territorial and procedural terms today after 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u105	Thank you, although this is certainly not necessary at this point, because it is not a law, but I see President Mihola's procedural proposal that it is about the laws to act after 19 o'clock. Am I getting this right? [[Chairman Mihola - answer off the microphone from the right side of the hall.]] You're putting me in a pretty difficult situation as a controller. So, yes, we will decide without debate. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your registration cards. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I see President Mihola's proposal, so that I am not accused of having interests other than the President's interests here, that the proposal is procedural, it concerns laws that we will discuss in a territorial manner even after 19 o'clock. I've begun the vote on order number 125, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 125 of the 140 present, for 59, against 48. The motion was not accepted. [[19.00 hours]] We will continue because we are discussing a point that is not a law, which means that we will continue this discussion until the end of it, because then there are further laws. In this respect, we will therefore continue on this point. I have a duly registered Minister Dienstbier, then a duly registered Mrs Bebarová-Rujbrová. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u106	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. I didn't even want to perform, but I was provoked to perform by Mr. Faltýnek and some others, who here, as in subtext, are trying to suggest that Mr. Exnámek Štern acted in some way not transparently, as if he had been involved in some strange other procurements in the past, virtually. selections for bracelets, and I'd like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u107	I will interrupt you, Minister, and ask the House for peace. I'd like to, because I have the last three logged in, i.e. with the priority right of Minister Dienstbier, then duly registered as the first Member of Parliament, Mrs Bebarová-Rujbrová, and then Mr Korte's second registered, and if we succeed, we will be able to complete this point at least in the general debate. Mr. Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u108	I would like to stress that I was also in contact with Deputy Minister Štern at the time when he was Director of the Probation and Mediation Service. At that time, as shadow minister of justice, of course, I was interested in what was going on in the resort. I would like to stress here that it was Pavel Štern, who, in the past, opposed completely pointless public procurement intentions for electronic bracelets. I think he had a pretty key role in the fact that overpriced orders did not take place in the past. This means accusing Mr Štern of wanting to put in some sort of non-transparable, weird order that he might even want to give someone data, and that is why he kept them secret to have an exclusive advantage or, in general, non-transparency, I consider it completely incorrect to him. If Mr Faltýnek said that the market survey was actually unnecessary, why it should be done, the price would be found in a public contract - well the final price would certainly be found, but if the law requires contracting authorities to set a preliminary price and sets out some methods for how it can be done, then logically, and even in accordance with the way approved by the Minister of Justice, the Probation and Mediation Service, has progressed, done market research and done it in the way described. I would like to stress that the setting that was made was clearly intended for the most potential tenderers to participate in the market survey, because without guarantee of confidentiality, no one would have put forward an offer. Because, of course, imagine a situation where such offers or offers of other applicants would reach one of them. And then a public contract was issued? Well, then, it is quite clear that one particular tenderer would be in a fundamental position to benefit from such a public contract. Therefore, the confidentiality, which is why the companies also verified in advance, as the Deputy Minister said here, whether confidentiality would be maintained, and if, in accordance with the procedure approved by the Minister, Deputy Minister Štern and other members of the Working Group had accepted in writing a non-disclosure obligation, it was completely incorrect in my view to ask him or anyone else to break that obligation and to provide information. Here, I think it's the nature of the problem. I will not now assess the extent to which it was already extremely important that the Deputy Director went to the police, but that he had doubts as to whether the procedure was correct and what motivation it might be to obtain specific offers of specific applicants, if, as has been rightly said, the price had been found only in the public contract itself, so let everyone reason on their own.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u109	Mrs Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová, who is now duly registered, will be prepared by Mr Korte. Please, madam, you have the floor. I know you waited a long time, but there was nothing else I could do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u110	Colleagues and colleagues, I am sad about our debate. Not only because I have convinced myself that there are still some equals and others more equal, I am waiting two hours for my speech, but mainly because of the content of this debate. The item is called Information of the Prime Minister on the situation at the Ministry of Justice. Instead, we are discussing how selection procedures are to be conducted, how personnel policy is to be conducted at individual ministries, and I expect that we may see a proposal in a detailed debate for the House to become a committee that will decide on selection procedures at individual ministries. I'll stick to the point, stick to it in the area that I've been doing here for a long time, whether it's currently the chair of the Sub-Committee on Prisons, but I've also done prisons in the past, at a time when none of you cared much for this issue until Mr. Excollege Rath's arrest. I remember how financially underestimated it was by ex-minister Kalousek, I remember former trends in the selection of electronic bracelets, but at this point I really don't want to talk about it. I want to talk about the politics of the current Ministry of Justice in relation to prison. I will only ask a few open questions. Do you think it's a good thing that the administration of the Ministry of Justice has led to a situation where, after an unexpected appeal from General Dohnal's leadership of the Prison Service, through the recommendations of the Security Committee, the Minister has quickly issued another tender and has appointed a new director of the Prison Service so that we can expect a similar situation that we have dealt with in the past at the Ministry of the Interior when we had two police directors? Do you think it is a good thing that the Minister does not heed the recommendation or the resolution of the Security Committee, which also has long been involved in this issue? Do you think it is a good thing that the Act on the execution of the sentence, which the previous government has drawn up, has been withdrawn by the Minister and other legislative proposals have not yet been submitted to us? Do you think it's a good thing that the time given us by President Klaus' otherwise questionable amnesty has been wasted, and currently prisons are being refilled so that there will be no room or money to implement educational measures? Do you think it's a good thing that, instead of discussing the laws that we have on our agenda, we are currently discussing the Minister's procedures and its personnel policy in such detail? Answer your own questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Zuzca Bebarová-Rujbrová, and we will continue with factual remarks now. I have two in front of my colleague Kort. But I'll ask my colleague Zlatuška to be patient. At 19:00, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek and MP Martin Novotný apologizes. Now the factual comment made by Mr Zlatuška, then the factual comment made by Mr Zavadil, then Mr Korte's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u112	Mr President, I would also like to respond to what Mr Dienstbier has said here about what would have happened if offers had reached one of the candidates. It's almost like unloading, I'd say, small multiplications to first-class children at a time when this fellow Dienstbier doesn't understand. Offers must, of course, be transparently visible to all. At the moment when everyone knows this evidence, on the basis of which the competition was being prepared, there cannot be a situation that he asked us to imagine. It cannot, in principle, come to an unfair advantage for one of the applicants. This can only arise when the offers are kept secret and there is a chance that one of them can selectively get them under their hands. I repeat, preparations must be made in a glass house. It must be completely transparent for everyone and in all details.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u113	Now, my colleague has Zavadil. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u114	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking you to stay calm on your left. I am sorry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u115	Me, too. I will ask you to be patient, and I will ask all colleagues to calm down, and the discussions that are not relevant to the subject under discussion will be brought into the foyer, including the discussions between Members and Ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u116	Well, that's what we learned, Mr. Control, today. Information about the situation at the Justice Department. I confess - I don't really know what all this information is about, and there's no way I want to be an arbiter to either of them. On the one hand, I've learned here how many capable managers we have, how they run their institutions, how they run their companies. I made one point of it. If there was this condition in the institution, in the quotes, or in the institution I was driving last time, and I used a very decent analogy, I would put my hands on my nipples, run to the neumětel, less faster than Šemík, because I don't have that kind of speed anymore, and I would ask the mayor to leave me in the neumětel. It's just a comment about what happened here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u117	Thank you. Mr Daniel Korte, Mr. Daniel Korte, is now the last member of the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I've aged a lot of hours before I've seen it. I think I can very well follow up on what Mrs Rujbrová said, who described the situation very closely here. The item is called Information of the Prime Minister on the situation at the Ministry of Justice. I must say that I am very sorry that the Prime Minister is not here, because I am afraid he is not informed of the situation. We learned from him in his introductory information that General Dohnal, Director General of Prison Service, had been removed. We did not know how he was removed, i.e. that it is legally defective, and I will not explain what legal defect is, because I think it is already widely known from the media. But I would like to learn from the Prime Minister what I did not learn from the Minister, although we were asking questions. In what position is Mr. Dohnal's Director-General called off? If he was dismissed under the law, i.e. under the Service Act, as it was established, it would have to be transferred to the advance. He's in some kind of vacuum, so the situation is now that we pay - you pay, taxpayers pay, two CEOs of the Prison Service. One of which is like he's nowhere. What position, Prime Minister, is Brigadier General Petr Dohnal now in? I think the taxpayers should know that the salary of the Director General of Prison Service is not small. In what way, Prime Minister, do you want to address this situation? Because it is obvious that the Minister of Justice, who has caused this situation, is unable to address this situation. But, you know, I don't care, personally, I don't care about Mr. Dohnal at all, just like I don't care that the secretary didn't get along with her deputy. My point is, I'm afraid the Prime Minister doesn't know that the Justice Department just doesn't work. Please let me prove it to you. I'm sorry if you guys could be a little quiet in there. Or I'll have to talk louder, and I've got a pretty strong voice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u119	Mr. Ambassador, you don't have to speak up, I'm gonna ask the House for peace of mind so you can finish your speech. Once again, I ask all colleagues to have any debates that are not relevant to the subject in the lobby, and if they want to join the debate, it is still open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. I can reduce the intensity of my voice a little bit. I'm gonna start off a little bit from afar and seemingly pointless, but we're gonna get there. As you probably know, I'm the chairman of the wiretap committee, etc., a commission called the Great Ear. In my control work I discovered, respectively. took the suspicion that Section 88 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which in par. 8 says that if a person has been ordered to wear a wire and the case has finally been terminated, the institution which has terminated the proceedings is obliged to do so, i.e. Police, prosecutor, judge, person without delay, respectively. Within the time limits referred to in this paragraph, this shall be communicated to that person so that he may complain. I also suspected that this duty had not been fulfilled. I took this suspicion on the grounds that this provision has been effective for about four years and only about 15 people complained in the Supreme Court over the four years, i.e. three to four a year, which is ridiculously low. And I suspected that either this obligation was not fulfilled at all, or that it was bypassed on the basis of the same paragraph, 88 para. 9, where it is said that it may not be communicated to that person that it has been eavesdropped, when it is a crime in a group, organized crime etc., etc., which has its logic. And the last sentence is absolutely brilliant - or there could be a threat to the security of the state, health, life and freedom of persons. Which, frankly, is everything. The Commission also invited representatives of ministries on this subject, i.e. The Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, asked a simple question: Do you keep a record of these cases? The answer was bowed down, eyes stuck in the table - we don't lead. Thus, the Ministry, the competent ministry, does not check whether it is fulfilled, respected by legal obligation. Based on this knowledge and on the agreement, please - I stress the agreements - with the representatives of the ministries, from the Ministry of the Interior there was a police president in spe, then not the police president, Mr. Tuhý, from the Ministry of Justice there among others, I do not remember names, but this name cannot be remembered, director of a department called Ransdorfová... Just stop there! On the basis of the agreement with the posted representatives of the Ministry, we adopted a resolution in this sense: the Ministry will deliver by the end of June, which was the term which they themselves proposed, answers to these questions: How many of these were told, how many were not communicated and why. After a while, I received a letter from the Minister as chairman of the Commission, which has certain shortcomings in staff culture, e.g. there is not a date from which I quote: "At present, the Ministry of Justice does not have information about the number of persons who have been informed about or who have not been informed of such information, including the reason for not sending such information. This is what the representatives of the Ministry of Justice pointed out to the Commission at the meeting on 8 April 2014, which is also mentioned in your request." [[19.20 hours]] If we look away from the grammatical error in the last sentence - as you say in your application - and from the twisting of the meaning of the sentence before it, please admit the Minister, who is signed under it, that the Ministry does not do what it has to do, that is the supervision of organizations, of the prosecutor's office, of the courts under its jurisdiction. [[its expressed emphatically]] Prime Minister, do you know that? I am very pleased to have this opportunity, because at the next meeting of the Commission, we adopted a resolution that we should pass on this problem at the House meeting, which I am fulfilling, and I was able to check out the task. But I would like to hear from the Prime Minister the answers to the questions I have raised here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u121	Thank you, Mr Korte. That was the last application for a debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Before I give the final words, if the rapporteur is reporting, and I will open a detailed debate, which I have to say on this point, I will say one apology. After 19 o'clock, Mr Pleticha apologizes. Now, with the final word, Minister Herman as rapporteur for this point. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u122	Mr President, colleagues, the Prime Minister's information has been heard. The Prime Minister stood up for the minister of his government. So he gave a clear answer to all the questions. I consider this to be a very clear conclusion to this point, which we have been discussing for so long and comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u123	Thank you for the final word. We will proceed to the debate in detail. The first one entered in the detailed debate is Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr President, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u124	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to read in a detailed debate the motion for a resolution on our comprehensive debate: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic takes note of the Prime Minister's information on the situation at the Ministry of Justice and asks the Prime Minister to pay particular attention to the way this ministry is managed."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u125	Thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. Since this is quite simple for the rapporteur, because one single motion for a resolution has been made, we can vote on the motion for a resolution. Does anyone have a request to repeat the motion for a resolution? I don't think anyone does. But there's an application for check-out, so I checked you out. Your registration, please. Log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applications has been settled... we will decide on the motion for a resolution in the 126 series vote that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 126 of 124 present for 47, against 23. The motion has not been approved. That concludes this point. Mr. Kalousek is still reporting off the charts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u126	With humility, albeit with surprise, I accept the decision of the Chamber of Deputies on this motion for a resolution, because I must say that the rapporteur spoke as a book. He told us what the Prime Minister here was very clear about what was clearly the outcome of this point. And you refused to acknowledge it. Okay, well, we don't acknowledge it, so there's nothing clear about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-016-112.u127	Thank you. Since negotiations have not been approved after 7:00 p.m. and the next draft programme would be the bill in the first reading, we cannot continue our negotiations because we cannot change the agenda of our meeting at this time. So thank you for your active participation. I look forward to seeing you tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning. We will start by classically following the Rules of Procedure, by replying to the written interpelations of Members and at 11 o'clock under the approved agenda. Have a good night.
