ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 72/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, before the words come to the rapporteur's table and the rapporteur for the first reading, Pavel Kováčik. Minister, please. Mr. Secretary, just a moment, please. Secretary Válková has something to say for the Steno Protocol. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u2	Thank you very much for allowing this. I admit that, as part of my final word, I switched over my card, but I forgot to turn off my machine, so I would be the only one who abstained. In vain, I have the button - I have the rapporteur's witness - pushed YES. I also voted in favour, I did not abstain and it was my technical mistake. Please make it logged in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You will have in the Steno Protocol that you voted in favour. Now, Minister Marian Jurečka, I ask for the opening word for press 72. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members. Allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No.110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws. The bill is presented as the initiative material of the Minister for Agriculture. The original bill, House Press 1017, was not discussed by the Chamber of Deputies because of its dissolution. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to adapt Czech food law to European Union regulations, in particular to the new regulation on food labelling. At the same time, changes are made to improve consumer awareness, increase food safety and effective monitoring of the food market. The envisaged proposal contains in particular adaptation to the directly applicable European Union rules, in particular adaptation to Regulation 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food information to consumers and the adaptation of terminology under European Union rules, and improvement of consumer awareness. The scope and manner of indication of the data for unpacked foods, such as the manufacturer's address or the type of food to be determined by implementing legislation, shall be determined by reference to the quantity of the main ingredient. A new obligation is hereby introduced for food business operators who accept specified foods in the territory of the Czech Republic from another Member State of the European Union or third countries to inform the supervisory authority of their arrival. Food species will be determined on the basis of a risk analysis by implementing legislation. A new information obligation is introduced for food business operators whose sales revenues exceed CZK 5 billion per financial year, visibly and clearly making available on entry into the shop a list of five countries with the largest share of sales. Increase in the maximum penalty rate for placing on the market of foodstuffs which do not meet the requirements for correct labelling or qualitative parameters. The maximum penalties are increased from CZK 3 million to CZK 10 million. For the placing on the market of food that is not safe, a maximum of CZK 50 million has been sanctioned since 2008. The proposal also includes the extension of the competence of the State Veterinary Administration to the official control of game in the entire food chain. Therefore, the State Veterinary Administration will also carry out the venison control in the provision of food services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u5	I thank the Minister and now ask the rapporteur, Pavel Kováčik, to present his intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, when food legislation changes, everyone should be alert, because there is no other law that would guide all citizens literally from the cradle to the grave. We all have to eat, and we know that, especially in recent years, there have been sometimes situations where the citizen is not at least sure of what he actually consumes, or even is not entirely sure of the health protection of food consumption, where it can be violated, whether that basis, that is, raw materials or technological discipline, or any other procedure that guarantees that the citizen consumes genuine food quality, food safe, food safe, that is, health safe, and also food that contains what it really contains. There were a number of cases. I have to say that because our audit institutions are the current legislation on food and its other amendments and specializations, let's say they are so well established in the system, so this has not caused any serious cause in our country, the territory of the Czech Republic. All cases that have been investigated so far and that citizens are well informed of are thus created in the territory of other states, whether the European Union or third countries. I think that this is worth attention and that it is necessary to safeguard the consumer's protection, consisting of a good system of control, also in the good performance of the activities of individual control institutions, whether it be the State Veterinary Administration, whether it be the Czech Agricultural and Food Inspection, whether it be the hygiene service, whether it be another control institution, such as the Czech Trade Inspection and all the others involved in this control system. Perhaps at times someone feels that the controls are too much and that businessmen, especially businessmen and manufacturers, should not be burdened. The producers are not too burdened, but especially the traders of those checks. I am convinced that when it comes to consumer health, the health of a citizen, when it comes to preventing consumer deception, i.e. the deception of a citizen, there is not always enough control, and a system can always be found to rationalise those controls without damaging the main, namely their consistency, their outcome, that it will therefore not be possible, or to limit to the minimum necessary, the possibility of violating consumer rights. This amendment, as the Minister has already said, and I do not intend to repeat what he has said here, on the one hand, to implement European standards, or to adapt the regulation of the European Parliament and the European Council, with the result of which it has been prepared for a very long time. There has been a debate, there has been a competence dispute in the last parliamentary term, there has been a discussion not only in the Committee on Agriculture but also in the Committee on Health. And I am convinced that, therefore, unless there have been any major changes in approaches, that its discussion should not be so very problematic. What is important is that the amendment should increase consumer comfort, the consumer's right to know the origin of the food, to know what the content of the main ingredient is, to know clearly, to be informed of all the essentials to be communicated to the consumer. It increases the complexity of the control of the goods through the whole chain from raw materials to producers through trade to the way to the consumer. [[12.40 hours]] I am convinced that if there are any small things, uncertainties, e.g. It seems to me that it would be better to define certain terms, import or purchase from foreign countries or from foreign countries more precisely, to specify that the provision cannot be circumvented, so that in the agricultural committee, where I recommend ordering this material, we will come to agreement and at the earliest possible time, where it is not recommended to extend the time limits, we will submit to the Chamber of Deputies at second reading and then at third reading to vote on the material for which we will not have to be ashamed and which we will not have to amend again within six months. I recommend that the bill be released for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. The words will be taken by Mrs Dana Váhalová, Mrs Olga Havlová will be prepared and then by Mr Petr Bendl. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to speak in support of the Government's bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll. on Food. This proposal aims to change the negative situation in ensuring the safety and quality of food produced over the last 15 years. However, this amendment is also intended to provide an important incentive for the gradual renewal of the Czech Republic's food self-sufficiency. According to recently published research every week, at least 77 percent of the population of the Czech Republic buys food and more than 40 percent of these foods are imported. According to Stenmark, food from abroad is most often purchased by Pražan and people from large cities. The biggest consumer of foreign food is mainly the younger generation, who buys up to three times more than the generation of their parents. Food imports into the Czech Republic have tripled since 2000 and almost 82,000 jobs have been lost at the same time as Czech agriculture, which represents a 30% decline in employment. The main reason for this negative development is the activity of huge business chains, which control almost 70 percent of food sales in the Czech Republic. Given that they are mostly in foreign hands, they prefer to buy food from abroad and food imports continue to grow. Almost half of foreign food imported into the Czech Republic comes from Germany and Poland. And what is alarming is that poor food is increasingly being delivered to the Czech Republic. Last year, the State Food and Agricultural Inspection Authority issued fines on account of poor quality food and other offences for about 64 miles. Crowns. For comparison, in 2011 it was 35 miles. Crowns. The Czech consumer needs effective protection against poor quality food and, above all, the possibility of choosing food with knowledge. The point is that the consumer has as much information as possible about what he buys. For unpacked products, it is important to make it clear who made the product, from which country it comes, what the product contains, so-called. the main folder. From my point of view, it is also important to mention the five countries most involved in the sale of food products in individual sales stores above 5 billion. Crowns. If we accept the proposed amendment, the Czech consumer will know what he is buying and where the products come from. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u9	Thank you, Mrs Dana Váhalová. The words will be taken by Mrs Olga Havlová and Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared, then by Mr Michal Hašek. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u10	Mr President, colleagues, I believe that the Food Law is a very important food quality control instrument because it concerns all citizens in this Republic. Every week we read in the newspaper how food vendors did not comply with the rules on how they sell rotten meat, expired yogurt, and, worse, food-ridden worms. I welcome this law because it has the potential to address this unfortunate practice. It is not only important to specify the obligations of the information provided on the packaging. It is not so important what foods are to meet the requirements to be listed in physical, chemical or microbiological quality and what the accessible content of toxicological substances must be observed. But it is also important that we punish those who do not follow the rules. Unfortunately, I think the practice in the Czech Republic shows that the penalty for breaking the law is not sufficient. Unfortunately, in our country, it is not a customer who punishes a dishonest salesman by stopping shopping for him. Unfortunately, the price is still the most decisive for the customer, not the quality. The bill, among other things. also deals with the granting of fines for administrative offences, i.e. for selling foodstuffs that do not comply with the rules. However, here I am not at all sure that the measures are sufficient. The problem is already in the very principle of calculating the fine. The penalty for selling rotten food is set at the maximum amount of the fine, which is wrong. This maximum amount does not take into account whether the fined undertaking is a small domestic seller or a multinational colossus. It is in the case of multinational companies that I think that the maximum amount of the fine does not give rise to a change in behaviour for these entities, because the amount of the fine in their profit is negligible, on the contrary, to private individuals often liquidating. I think it is worth considering that the amount of fines should be set as a percentage of the company's annual turnover. Only then would it be achieved that any fine would be custom-made, so to speak. It would be one of the ways to change the behavior of vendors that bothers us so much. This proposal on the granting of fines and the amount of fines should be discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and should not be approved again by a law which does not address anything and would be effective for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u11	Thank you, Mrs Havlová. Mr Rostislav Vyzula came forward with a point of fact. So my colleague Bendl can wait a little longer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Since this is such a serious matter and I hear here that the proposal will only be discussed in the Committee on Agriculture, I propose that this government proposal also be discussed in the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u13	Thank you for your comment. Please, the rapporteur has been ahead of Mr Bendl's duly applied for. With priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to consider the proposal. Of course, everyone has the right to discuss any standard in any committee when they take the initiative. This is possible under the Rules of Procedure. But in the previous debate in the last parliamentary term, it went to the Health Committee on my proposal as rapporteur, and it went because there were uncertainties. There aren't any now. I think it would be useless. But it is your will, the will of the House, if you give it to the Health Committee. So much for the immediate reaction at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Michal Hašek, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. honourable Members, the Food Act is a law that has been prepared for a very long time, because it is not simple legislation. It has been prepared for about two years, so I don't know if I should thank all those who say they support this proposal because the Gros has prepared the Nečasův government. But I know that we have been communicating about this quite in detail in the agricultural committee during the last parliamentary term with NGOs and with all those affected by this issue, and I think that it has been possible to prepare a draft law which, in essence, is a good bill. [[12.50 hours]] I welcome the positive words that are falling because we are really simplifying - or this proposal envisages simplifying food legislation. Foodmakers will be able to reduce some of their necessary costs, which they had with bureaucracy, which was based on double-track proof of some things, because those two ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, were not always able to agree how to do so. The grocery store paid for it. The direction suggested by the Food Act, I think, is good because it will reduce costs and duplicate payments by food professionals. It increases the cost of meat processors, but at the expense of, I'll say, quality. The bill has always thought first of all about quality. No matter if the food comes from anywhere. What we are primarily interested in is that state organisations have enough tools to control quality. Of course, the customer has a chance to get a better sense of what he's buying and where it's from. This, too, is what the law brings. Though forward here I say that although there is an obligation once every 12 months for a person who has over five billion turnover, to say where, how much percent of the goods he takes, please take into account that this has nothing to do with quality at all. That it's not about quality, but it's more like maybe a little bit of an effort to show it to the landlord. I see - I have no major problem with it, I just want to point out here that it has nothing to do with the quality of the goods. Other sections are turning to the quality of the goods, and I am glad that there is an increase in the chances of people in that law to learn about the food they buy. The competence of the State Veterinary Administration is strengthened, as has been said here, because statistics show that, especially in the case of game, although it is being caught more and more by competent persons authorized to control game - it shows that these checks are increasingly taking place. The animal is a big problem, and our veterinarians have long pointed out that at some point, I will say that the food chain for the sale of game control is not enough, and it could mean unpleasant things associated with endangering people's health. Therefore, our veterinarians need to gain competence in the field of game control. And one more, one last point. Yes, the rapporteur was absolutely right that our state bodies and organisations in the agriculture department were doing their part well here, and basically there were no cases, except for one, and I would remind you, that was the methyl alcohol. But I don't think there, or in the long run, I don't think it was the fault of the Department of Agriculture, it was customs. That's where I think he was the main source of the problem we're unfortunately dealing with today. Otherwise, I thank you for submitting this bill and I believe we will let it go to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u17	Thank you. Mr Michal Hašek, Mr. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, I will not be overextending the House's negotiations shortly before lunch, but I will nevertheless allow myself a few more facts on this bill. Firstly, I also want to speak on his behalf. We have the Food Act for 15 years. It is a very sensitive subject, which few people believed a year ago, that election campaigns would also need to be moved and then electoral results. We all know the reality. I am very pleased that it has succeeded in bringing forward this government bill to the Chamber of Deputies. I will not discuss the various provisions, the Minister, the rapporteur, spoke of them, but I will allow myself a few figures as a broader context. The amendment is intended to respond to food quality and safety issues, and I believe it is also intended to help open up the possibilities of delivering Czech quality food to our market. So, in a delegated sense, it can be a certain instrument of supporting our food self-sufficiency and Czech agriculture as such. Unfortunately, the Annual Report on the state of Czech agriculture for 2012 shows that it continues to decline rather. For your idea, in terms of forecasting our agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, it is at 65 percent of the state from the beginning of the transformation of our agriculture. From the point of view of labor deployment, about 25 percent of people work at the agrifood complex compared to 1990. Massive imports of food into the Czech Republic have also been one of the causes of this condition, which have tripled since 2000. While the food and live animal trade deficit was always around CZK 20 billion between 1999 and 2001, between 2009 and 2012, i.e. ten years later, the deficit exceeded CZK 33 billion annually. In particular, strong imports of vegetables, fruit, meat and meat products have led to the deepening of this deficit. In 2003 the value of imports of meat and meat products was 4 billion, in 2012 already huge 26 billion CZK. In fact, these are also things that lead to the gradual decline and destruction of livestock production in the Czech Republic, which also significantly supports employment in our agriculture. Overall, food imports have tripled over the last few years, from 53 billion in 2000 to around CZK 145 billion in 2012. We have heard here from the mouth of my predecessors how our consumers choose food. Whether they are preferred, whether by them or by the trade chain, by domestic or foreign brands, and what role does the question of price play in this? When we look once again at food imports, it is striking that Czech crops and commodities, apples, vegetables, pork, are previously imported. They are imported at a relatively low price, the question is in what quality, and whether imports from abroad also occur under so-called hidden subsidies. This, of course, led to the fact that in recent years Czech and Moravian businesses have ended up growing fruit and vegetables, with pig farming, and the return to the original state is very difficult, virtually impossible. Thanks to their monopoly position, trade chains are able to provide relatively above-standard benefits. It is not just a problem of the Czech Republic. I would like to refer to the so-called Green Paper on unfair practices between businesses in Europe in the food and non-food supply chain. This document was published by the European Commission in 2013. A separate question would also be the issue of margins for business chains. In some cases, these margins greatly limit choice for consumers, because quality and specialised products are less affordable thanks to such a business policy for customers, one might say, in some cases even disadvantageous. This is, of course, an alarming fact with regard to the unfortunately decreasing purchasing power of the Czech population compared to the population in Europe, and the decisive criterion in the selection of goods for at least one third of Czech consumers is then, ladies and gentlemen, only and only the price. I am pleased that this amendment has provided mandatory publication of data on the country of origin of all unpacked foods, manufacturer data, main folder also in the case of counter sales, and that, under the legal circumstances, the chain of trade will be obliged to publish a percentage of food imports in order to inform the customer for each significant commodity that a percentage of domestic products and such or other percentage of import products are sold in such a store. I also welcome the increase in sanctions, such as maximum fines for non-compliance with food labelling requirements or qualitative parameters, where the fine increases more than three times to CZK 10 million. [[13.00 hours]] At present, the European Union is facing a dangerous trend in food counterfeiting. Unlike US law, this issue is not addressed in the Czech Republic as a question even criminal. However, estimates suggest that food fraudsters in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, will cause damage per year in the equivalent of a trillion crowns per year. You hear me well: a trillion crowns a year! Finally, I very much welcome the fact that the amendment - I hope it will be supported - will improve the awareness of Czech consumers and maybe it will lead to better orientation and perhaps gradually give priority to our national production. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask all of you to allow this amendment to be released for further reading, its discussion on the Committee on Agriculture, and I believe that we will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u19	Thank you. This was the last written entry into the debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I see Mr. František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. You're obviously in a hurry. I'm sorry. I just want you to keep an eye on the folk creativity of the Dawn Members in committee, because if you are aware of what Mrs Olga Havlová said here, it would be fined by the size of the seller. I don't care, and I think to all customers, whether they buy a rotten potato or a tomato in a wholesale, or a chain, or a small supplier. I'd warn you about that, 'cause there's something going on here that's out of the ordinary. If you get a house built and he falls on your head, if you survive it, then you probably won't be wondering if you're gonna have an eseroceros who built it for you, asking for a less penalty for repairing the damage than for some multinational big company. So please, I'd just warn you about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u21	The debate is not over. With the factual remark of Mrs Olga Havlová and with priority rights, the Minister, Vice-President of the Government - after that factual remark, Mr Vice-President. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u22	My esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, may not have understood what I had in mind, because this is not a matter of whether we buy a rotten potato with someone, a small seller, or a large supermarket, but the point is that the sanctions are not enough for the big ones, and they are liquidating for the small entrepreneurs. So here's the thing about making it work, and to motivate it, it's what motivates the vendors not to do that. And it's not like we're buying rotten potatoes from a small or big businessman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u23	Thank you. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to point out that, as has been said here, the issue of game is very delicate, even because a large part of production is in shops, virtually. in poacher-making catering facilities. There is also the question that venison, unlike other commodities, is very difficult to control during its creation. That means, you don't know where the animals moved, what they did for a living, etc. Of course we have some monitoring etc. This means, I suppose, and I would like to appeal to the very strict control of the game market for this very reason, because it is very difficult to monitor within the chain. For example, in livestock, the control from forks to forks is pretty clear, it's more complicated for game. So I welcome the fact that the question of game will be much better controlled. I would also like this risk to be taken into account in terms of food safety.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u25	I thank the Vice-President of the Government, Pavel Bělobrádek. I have no other application for a debate, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? He's interested. And the rapporteur is also interested in the final word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would only react briefly to some of the things that have been said here. As far as the proportion of food imported and consumed from us is concerned, of course, we all know that the problem is quite large. We will do our best to increase and gradually increase our self-sufficiency and also the share of food from home production that customers will buy from us. Just a little turn. Last week, when I was here at a restaurant in the Chamber of Deputies, the soft beer I ordered was originally from Germany. So maybe we should start with ourselves here. In general, on the question of the amount of fines, I would just like to clarify: there is no problem at present such a major problem with the amount of fines that is defined in the law, because a fine of up to CZK 50 million can already be imposed in some cases. There is a problem as administrative proceedings are progressed, how bold officials are to reach higher amounts of fines, because the highest fine, if I am not mistaken, in 2012, because I have not seen the dates for 2013 was in the amount of CZK 750 000 to one business chain, which is really poorly little in terms of turnover. So I say in the agriculture department, we're going to try to make sure that officials in administrative proceedings are really free to make decisions, and they're going to approach that fines aren't supposed to bully someone from my point of view, in the first place, to raise them. And if the education doesn't lead to results, then the fines really are supposed to be very hard, and that's what we're going to do. I would really like to ask you, fellow Members, to consider whether it is necessary for this bill to be intended to be negotiated with the Health Committee, but, of course, it is up to you. The question mentioned here by Mr Bendl, namely that the publication of the five countries which have the largest share in sales in a given chain or in a given enterprise, whether it is related to the quality of the food - at first sight, it may seem that it does not. But if we look at the results of the inspections of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, where you find that food from the Czech Republic's domestic production has the least percentage of error, then of course it has a certain connection. Of course, all the things that are now going on here in the area of food quality, safety, food self-sufficiency, these are the things that the current coalition and the agricultural department are supposed to tackle intensively. So, thank you, and I'm asking you to put it on the agricultural committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u27	I thank the Minister for the final word. Now, the rapporteur's final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ma'am and gentlemen, I know it's lunchtime, and talking about food is a little morbid, and now it may be a little uncomfortable. But, okay, let's use Pavlovův's reflex to make the speech as short as possible. I want to stand up for Mrs Havlová, Mrs Havlová, because I did not really see her performance as the colleague who pointed out that we need to be careful understood. It is about what really hurts, what the Minister spoke of. The enforcement of those fines, sanctions, the effectiveness of those sanctions, and perhaps it is appropriate, even if not when discussing this particular matter, but until a very early future, to think about a rather different system. Because if a warning doesn't help if a small fine doesn't help, if a middle fine doesn't help, if we don't even get a large fine, then it's time for another degree of penalty. Withdrawal of the license. In the future, if the subject repeatedly violates the law, then the threat and subsequently withdrawal of the license for sale or for business in the territory of the Czech Republic. That is what I think will be effective, and especially those who are repeatedly marked by breaking the law will still be happy to pay the fines. And after all, it's awkward to be on the blacklist of those who don't follow the law completely. So I understand that's what Mrs. Havlová meant. And I think many of us have a similar opinion. My colleague Bendl was always talking about food quality. I just want to point out that when I remember something too, I was at the birth of the original 100th, i.e. the Food Act, then the word quality was considered almost a dirty word at the time. And I am glad that, in recent years or in recent periods, we are also beginning to return to the concept of food quality and that it is necessary to keep an eye on it, because, after all, the consumer is not always able to judge what is in the product and how good it is. So I think it's a good thing that the trend has turned around lately and that the control is not just through health, but also through quality, or if you want quality. [[13.10 hours]] I will ask that we concentrate on second reading, so that we also try not to hack fundamentals with amendments in the second reading, and I therefore recommend that the proposal be directed to the agricultural committee. And after all, we are discussing food at lunchtime, I wish everyone a good taste when the morning negotiations are interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u29	I wanted to thank the rapporteur, but unfortunately I will take at least ten minutes off. Since there was no motion to return or refuse, we will consider the commandment. The present proposal was decided by the President of the Chamber of Deputies to order the agricultural committee. As part of the debate, a motion for a commandment was made to the Health Committee. Anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[Dissenting voices in the hall.]] I had this request from the diaper. If anyone doesn't like it, we must respect the wishes of our colleagues that the situation in the Chamber of Deputies has changed. The number of Members has settled. In voting order number 28, which I have just begun, I ask who is for the commandment to the agricultural committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 28 of 148 present for 148. The motion was accepted. A motion for a commandment to the Health Committee. We will decide in the vote the order number 29 that I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment of the Health Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 29 of the 149 present for 48, against 68. The motion was not accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the agricultural committee, and I conclude with this point. Before the midday break, I would like to say that at 13.15 the Organizing Committee will meet, and at 13 o'clock the session under the patronage of the Permanent Delegation of the Interinstitutional Union and the setting up of individual groups of friends in the piano room. Bon appétit, everyone. I ask the members of the Organizing Committee to arrive early at the meeting of the Organising Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-006-009.u30	Good afternoon, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. Allow me to welcome you to the continuation of today's negotiations after a good lunch. To begin with, I would like to offer an apology to Mr Ivan Adamec, who apologizes for health reasons this afternoon. We are getting to point eight, which we approved this morning as a fixed point, as the first point of this afternoon's meeting.
