ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-009-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, and Act No. 256/2000 Coll., on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund and amending certain other laws (the Act on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund), as amended (the Parliamentary Press 98/ - first reading) The Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka will also present this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-009-012.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Today I also submit a government bill amending Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, and Act No. 256/2000 Coll., on the State Intervention Fund, as amended. This government bill is also tabled because of the failure to discuss the Chamber of Deputies last year due to its dissolution. The main reasons for submitting the proposed legislation with regard to Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, are in particular to clarify the general provisions on common market organisations, direct payments, the Rural Development Programme and the Operational Programme Fisheries. Simplifying the register of agricultural entrepreneurs with a view to simplifying trade law and with changes brought about by the Act on Fundamental Registers. Change in the operation of land use records according to user relations, the so-called LPIS system, with a view to unifying the method of administration of subsidies in the agriculture department following the reduction of agricultural and rural agencies by the Ministry of Agriculture, whose major activity took over from 1. 1. 2013 State Agricultural Intervention Fund. Further refinement of the provisions on land registering, registering landscape elements and registration of objects and their procedural means of updating. And repealing the provisions on the annual presentation of the report on the state of agriculture to the Chamber of Deputies. The main amendments to Act No.256/2000 Coll., on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, are in particular the wording of the provisions on the financing of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, the addition of provisions on the provision of national subsidies under the Ministry's mandate under Section 2d of the Agricultural Act through the grant agreement and the addition of provisions on the provision of subsidies and the possibility of electronic submissions. The positive impact of the bill on the business environment of the Czech Republic can be seen in particular as a simplification of the register of agricultural entrepreneurs, the abolition of the institute of local jurisdiction and the abolition of the register of agricultural production focus. As regards the explanatory memorandum, I would like to clarify the information on the new basic regulations of the Council and Parliament of the European Union adopted at the end of 2013 and subsequently published in the Official Journal of the EU. These are the new basic regulations of the Council and Parliament of the European Union concerning amendments to the common agricultural and fisheries policy for the period 2014 to 2020. The already published regulations of the European Union will be followed by the still unaccepted implementing regulations of the European Union, which will be adopted by the institutions of the European Union during 2014. At the same time, I would like to update and ask the Chamber of Deputies to extend the deadline for the second reading by 30 days, i.e. 90 days, because we are still waiting for some details from the European Union in relation to the common agricultural policy, so that we may not have to amend this law again from the outset. So I would ask that this request of mine be granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-009-012.u3	I thank the Minister and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Margita Balaštíková to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-009-012.u4	Hello, Mr President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister of Agriculture has submitted a bill to us. As rapporteur, I would like to inform you that, in fact, the regulation of the law only specifies the general provisions on common market organisations, aligning the register of agricultural entrepreneurs with changes and simplifying trade law. There is a change in the operation of the register, the use of land according to user relations due to the unification of administration in the Department of Agriculture and the modification of land records concerning the register of landscape elements, the registration of objects and their procedural means of updating. As regards the Act on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, only the provisions on competence and scope of the Fund are clarified and its financing adjusted and the provisions on national subsidies are supplemented on the basis of the Ministry's mandate. As regards the Minister's request, I would also be in favour of an extension, because, of course, the implementing regulations of the Commission of the European Union can be adopted during the year and we could take some wrong steps. [[15.10 hours]] As regards the objective of the proposed legislation, it is the preparation and adaptation of the legal order of the Czech Republic prepared by a new, directly applicable and immediately applied regulation of the European Union. The proposed draft law will only require effects on the state budget to the extent of the Fund's approved medium-term budget. The cost of further changes or adjustments to information systems with regard to the new common agricultural policy of 2014 to 2020 will be covered by the Fund from previous years' balances and from future budgets. As rapporteur, I recommend that House Press No. 98 has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-009-012.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate that I have no application for at the moment. Yes, I see, Mr. Petr Bendl reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-009-012.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I support this amendment to the Agriculture Act. Just because the Minister here has asked for an extension of the time limit on this law, I consider whether it would be worth putting in this legislation the possibility of farmers to change, for example, arable land for permanent grassland. Today, legislation does not allow them to do so. The European legislation makes this possible according to my information. It's very complicated in our country. It would help to organise such a better job, and farmers would, I think, welcome it. She'd be much wider than that. I believe that we may be able to say a little more about this on the committee, but I just want to inspire the minister here to see if his secretariat and ministry would be doing this to allow farmers to exchange at least half-and-half, or TTP against arable land and vice versa, so that they can have it without problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-009-012.u7	I thank the honourable Member and ask who else is joining the general debate. If I have no further application, I will end the general debate and ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to have the final word. They don't want to. Thank you. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? If it does not, we shall proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote (number 35) on the commandment of the draft law to discuss the agricultural committee. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Of the 172 Members enrolled for 146, against none. The proposal was directed to the agricultural committee for discussion. There was also a proposal to extend the deadline for discussion by 30 days. I have Mr. Václav Snopek's factual comment here... No. Mr Snopek is not reporting in. So I'm going to vote on an extension for 30 days, 90 days. Who's in favour of extending this deadline? Initiating vote (number 36). All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Of the 173 Members present for 148, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee and that the time limit for the hearing has been extended by 30 days to 90 days. That concludes the first reading of this bill. Next we'll look at point number
