ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u1	1. Věra Jourová, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 26/ - First reading We received the Government's position as press 26/1 and I ask Vice-President Petr Gazdík to speak for the plaintiffs. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, Members of the Government, allow me to present to you the draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies under the House press 26. This proposal aims to improve the legislative process and increase the degree of transparency when discussing drafts of individual laws. I see these goals as a reflection of the negative experience that I and many of my colleagues have gained in the past period, but also as a response to public criticism and non-profit organisations. This proposal seeks to achieve its objectives by adopting, in principle, five of the following amendments: 1. Publication of the list of persons involved in the drafting of the legislative text and the introduction of the so-called legislative footprints. 2. Extension of the deadline between 2nd and 3rd reading to 14 days. 3. Implementation of the principle of public conduct of all the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. 4. Introduction of the obligation to process a general assessment of corruption risks in the draft law, so-called CIA. 5. Preventing an opaque distribution of funds through amendments to the State Budget Act. As the greatest deficiency, which reduces the quality of legislative work in the long term, I see the shortness of the deadline between 2nd and 3rd readings. It is obvious that 72, respectively. 48 hours is quite insufficient time to get to know the proposed amendments and their assessment from a professional but also political point of view. The critics of this proposal argue that the legislative process would be disproportionately slowed down and complicated. However, I, together with the other petitioners, believe that the slowdown in the legislative process is an acceptable price for room for consistent and detailed knowledge of the amendments that each of us has to decide on. The amendments tabled at 2nd reading are often the cause of very poor law, which then needs to be corrected, thereby spinning the round of constant changes that lead to legislative chaos. I speak these words after the experience I have gained here in the last parliamentary term. I regret to say that we did not have the opportunity to approve the same proposal in the last parliamentary term and prepare better conditions for the current House for legislative work. I believe that the present House will discuss this proposal with the will to change its rules so that we can discuss the proposed laws with a calm conscience of the responsible legislator. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Please, Mr Polčák's rapporteur, respectively. Mr Polčák, who was designated by the rapporteur, that is correct, for first reading. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u4	It's okay, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the floor. I'll just be brief. My speech concerns this draft in the sense that I will not, of course, propose rejecting it. There is no doubt that this amendment is fit to go through another legislative process, only perhaps a reminder. The Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies is to a certain extent high. Majestic in that it actually regulates the meeting here in this courtroom, and so far it has been customary for all political parties and representatives to participate in its preparation. I think it would be appropriate, before this bill was tabled, that this debate should be conducted, for example, with new groups, whether it be the Úsvit movement or others, because it is a fact that these internal rules, which will then take the form of a law, should be acceptable for all the groups that are sitting here, and, on the other hand, should last longer than just one term. It has already been discussed here that the bill is to some extent the basis, it is possible to talk about some changes, which the government also points out - a certain discrepancy with the law on budgetary rules, in the tax system there is a terminology which the draft does not respect, on the other hand it is relatively small from the point of view of what is still waiting for us today. So I do not intend to delay this House's negotiations, and I recommend that this bill be passed on to further reading, considering that it would be necessary to consider extending the deadline for the second reading, as I said, so that all members of Parliament may sit down, and I think it would be appropriate for a certain informal or formal group of representatives of all political parties to discuss this standard. What is essential, among other things, must be pierced, is indeed an extension of the deadline between 2nd and 3rd reading. It is true that this extension of the deadline between 2nd and 3rd reading offers certain risks that may be related to the extension of the legislative process. And it may seem that 14 days is not such a crucial time, but in this House it often happens that it is important sometimes even every day. This is dealt with either by shortening this deadline or by defining this deadline in a different way to certain cases, or by declaring a state of legislative emergency at a given moment's notice. It should be noted here, however, that even according to the Constitutional Court's finding, the issue of declaring a state of legislative emergency must be dealt with fairly restrictively, so this would probably not be a complete solution to the objection to the length of the period between 2nd and 3rd reading, which is therefore proposed to extend from the current 24 hours to 14 days, which would not be very appropriate. The petitioners need to think about this, because it is a fact that life here in the House is variable and may sometimes require flexible solutions. So I say this from the opposition benches for the representatives of the newly formed ruling coalition, which is a de facto provision that should then go in their mouths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. As much as I have two applications, I will give Mr Stanjur the right of priority before that, Mrs Putnová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I want to say that we will vote in favour of this proposal in committee, and I want to say that it is the only legislative proposal today that has every right to be a Member. We do not think that the government, too efficient, should propose what rules are set by the legislative power. So it is a good thing in this case that this is a parliamentary proposal and not a government proposal. [[11.30 hours]] I think that I can concentrate on points other than those of the five presented by the petitioners, but let me make a statement, point out some of the risks or preconceivedness or shortcomings of the proposed points. Publication of the list of persons involved in the drafting of the legislative text. I'm sure I don't have a problem with anyone making an amendment to the committee to make a clear record of it. We have no problem with the vote on committees being traceable as a vote on plenary. However, if we take it literally, if it's a government proposal and it's being prepared by some department of law, will a list of these people be included in the government proposal? If a seminar is carried out, at which the persons concerned will also perform, interest groups, which is perfectly legitimate and absolutely common, will the list of these people and these organisations be included? And if so, will we want to see if the state pays them or not? I think so. That everyone should state whether it is or not. I mean, there is still a need to have a detailed debate about this so that it is not said that the only person behind whom the legislative lead will be the Member who makes the amendment, because the people involved in the preparation of the legislation are very many, and you know that the most important is the original material. Every change, and you as government MPs will find it difficult to assert, because it will be said to be a government proposal, so that the House does not interfere too much. I would ask the petitioners and all those who will look into this to discuss this in detail, to make it logical, and I think it is absolutely justified to know who suggested it and how I voted on the committee, I have no problem with it so that we do not overdo it and then we have hundreds, thousands of names for every bill that just passed, and every reporter in the legislative department. The second thing that sounds very good and logical is an extension of the deadline between second and third readings. I must say that, as suggested, the correct name is that in opposition proposals, the deadline will be extended between second and third readings, because here the House's ability to reduce it to 48 hours, without the possibility of vetoing two clubs. And since I'm only here for the second term, but I have some practice when the government proposes it, the government will approve it, and it will be 48 hours. If the opposition suggests that it wants to cut from ten days or fourteen to 48 hours, the government coalition will reject it. So this proposal is for opposition proposals, not for government, but let it be, it will make life more difficult for the government, because we will either disrupt the six-week cycle of meetings and come up with some other, seven-week, or we will shorten the committee weeks or I don't know how, or the material of the second reading will be at one meeting and the third reading at the other. At the same time, it is proposed that the bill be withdrawn at the beginning of the third reading. There are weeks and months of political reflection here, whether, for example, a government at a time when the law in the House is not being developed as the government imagined to be able to analyse it for weeks and possibly withdraw it. I don't know if that's a good thing. There is an effort to reduce the possibility of obstruction for the opposition. Consider. We're in opposition now, we thought about it when we ruled. In the end, we always resisted the temptation. If you want, make sure you don't want obstruction while discussing the program. I think that, in particular, the presidents of the MPs have their own experience of having an unlimited opportunity to perform anyway, so it is quite unnecessary and we do not recommend it. When we resisted as a government party, we resist as a opposition, because it is against us as well. There is no problem with the corruption risks joining the bills. I think it's okay, it's very often underestimated. However, it must not be so formal. And this has to be said critically for the last parliamentary term, how the impact on public budgets of state, regional or municipal is assessed. Very often there are false sentences that it does not affect regional and municipal authorities. It's a bill. And then ask the mayors how much money it takes them, how many officials they have to take to ensure a new duty. It's very often affected. So I would like to make it more precise, both the financial impact and the impact on potential corruption risks. Then I think there's one proposal that I think is on the verge of constitutionality, but let's talk about it again, I don't want to make any strong sentences here. There is basically a saying, or basically the plaintiffs want to fight the slaughtering of a bear, even though the bear hasn't been cut in years. It's a bit of a business cross, but I don't see why not. But how are they gonna fight a bear? They don't say it can't be a direct grant to someone. They say whoever's lobbying at the Ministry, and it's already coming under the government bill, so it's okay. And if an MP proposes it, the clerk has to discuss it first. I don't think that's good. Either no one can do it, or everyone can do it. And imagine for yourself what will be the response when one of these 200 members of the House comes and proposes a change in the state budget: I propose to send 10 million to my community because I am a representative of this electoral region. First, it won't go away and second, it'll have a media disgrace. So I think the fight is delayed by x years, and I think if we want to fight, let's think about it so that the official doesn't have more privilege than the MP. The last thing I would like, which we would like to support, is that the possibility of concluding committees will be improved. I think that's a good thing -- but again, maybe even as part of a discussion by the law's promoters, they could tell us how many times it happened. I've been here for less than one term, the shorter one. I was a member of three committees in turn. No one once suggested closing the negotiations. This is a problem which, in my opinion, does not really exist, and at the same time, we are fighting it. It's such a nice job to fight something that doesn't really exist. We agree on that, then we applaud, but the effect is none. The last debatable thing is stickers or stickers. I think we agree that the stickers are wrong. What we do not agree on, however, is who will judge that it is a sticker. Who's gonna judge? Really, it's the government's opinion. When a government majority decides it's not a sticker, it's just not a sticker. When he decides it's a sticker, it's a sticker. I don't have the recipe for it because I really have to tell the law that they can't be stickers... A few days ago, you voted on the State Budget proposal for 2014 to change the State Budget for 2013. We're saying it's a label that there's no connection, as you write, to the bill. You guys figured it wasn't a sticker, and it got away with it. I don't want to downplay it. I really think it is wrong for us to address asylum law or vice versa in the tax law. But it's about interpretation, about common sense of common sense of us, about the healthy common sense of those who want to eventually open the law to use it for some minor change somewhere else, but I think we're under such control that really some really dangerous or completely unrelated stickers don't arise. I don't see why not. I would just ask my colleagues when we discuss this on the committees to try to think about the form so that it is not so that the sticker is what the majority in the Chamber of Deputies will decide, because that is how it is designed at this moment. At the same time, I think that we do not have a problem supporting the extension of the deadline after committee discussions, because I think it would be good to find a strong consensus between coalition and opposition clubs and not to change our rules too often. I am just saying that perhaps some of the other points that Parliament's life has already brought, we will try to propose during the committee procedure and complete the proposal for further initiatives. But it's going to be in the same plane as the five proposed. We'll be looking for a match with all of you so that we don't discuss the rules very often. It won't make me remember what Chairman Hamáček said. Yes, it was just the draft law on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, where only the title remained and the rest we exchanged. And I was in the majority that traded it. But it was because the Senate suggested it. That two of the same designs came in. And we have not touched the Senate with a single letter because I think the Senate has every right to adjust its internal rules of life, its functioning, as the Chamber of Deputies has the right to adjust its internal rules of operation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Another party to the general debate is Mrs Putnová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u8	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The three years I spent on the bench convinced me that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies require amendment. I appreciate the initiative of the Members who have taken this step, especially those who have already worked to adopt this amendment in the last parliamentary term. Yet I am convinced that some points deserve our attention. I'll allow myself to comment on at least two of them. It's Amendment No. 7 and No. 11. I don't think we've talked about the first one in this room yet. This is a regulation of the debate during the approval of the agenda. We want to regulate something that does not actually allow for the Rules of Procedure. So it seems to me that it is aimed at regulating priority rights. In such a case, however, this should appear in other paragraphs, which include rights with priority performances. Another amendment point number 11 has already been mentioned by Mr Stanjura. We demand transparency and refinement of standards under the cape to present both the explanatory report and the authors of the individual standards. I believe that political responsibility is the responsibility of Members who should also be fully responsible for their proposals. If we want there to be that clue that we've been talking about, it's just another example of alibis and hypocrisy that Czech politics is more than filled with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, too. Another party to the debate is Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I also do not think that the House should give way to the conditions of the President, but this time I think it is a good thing that this pseudocondition has fallen because we are dealing urgently with the laws that need to be adopted. One of them is this law amending the Rules of Procedure of the House. I think it is right to consider this as Mr Stanjura thinks, but perhaps from the other side. It would be helpful to shorten the legislative process, which will be extended by the 14-day period, perhaps, if we were to regulate a little bit more the time to speak, if we were to introduce perhaps some limits, as is the case in a number of parliaments of developed countries, and if, perhaps, that priority right, which, I would say, is being abused, has been completely abolished. The word "preferential right" is kind of undemocratic. As far as obstruction is concerned, I think they'll be able to continue. The obstructions are part of parliamentary democracy. In America, they can even shut down national parks, putting food at risk for Teddy bear. The question is, do normal people appreciate it? I'd say not much. And maybe we can agree to speak to the point rather than to make ideological speeches or to hold back something that we can't slow down anyway. So I support this law, but, of course, we're gonna finish it. We're here to work on these laws to make them ideal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u11	With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Is it factual? I'm asking. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u12	I won't even use two minutes. I would like to ask Mr Komárek through the President not to mess with the fact that he will limit the opposition's ability to speak. Such an idea of restricting priority rights... In the last parliamentary term, as a majority coalition, we have complied with the opposition proposal, which wanted to expand the number of prime speakers, for logical reasons, because all ministers have it. That'll be 17 ministers in your case. It's the head of the House, which is usually most of the coalition. And then only the presidents of the MPs had it. The opposition then came, today your coalition partner, with the suggestion that they should also be political party leaders. We supported it because the proposal was logical. Even so, the coalition will have far more priority speakers than the opposition. I know you might find this uncomfortable. Try to imagine the part the other way around. That would be a scream that civil democrats want to limit opposition, etc. I can see the headlines now. There's nothing like that in there except for the program. In addition, I apologise to Mrs Putnová, for the proposal for a programme, individual Members may speak with their proposals. They cannot respond and comment, but each Member may, within 30 minutes of the opening of each meeting day, make his proposal to amend or supplement the programme. I was just saying that this is a minor restriction especially to the opposition, because it works the way that it usually has counterproposals of the opposition. It's perfectly natural. And I wanted to ask you not to mess with it. We can have such casual conversations about this, but I'd like you not to suggest it and not approve of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u13	Another party to the general debate is Mr Tejc. - I'm sorry, it's still de facto from Mrs Putnová at the last minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u14	I just want to respond to my colleague Stanjura. I was talking about the debate, not the possibility of Members to speak. But on the debate, regulate the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u15	I'll ask Mr. Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u16	Madam, honourable Members, I stood in this position a few months ago and fought hard at that time as a positional Member with the then-government Members to avoid being hampered by the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the opposition law. And since I still remember, it hasn't been that long ago, I would really recommend that the opposition, even though I'm part of the coalition majority in this House, doesn't reduce any rights because it doesn't pay off to anyone in the long run. So everyone who is a coalition will almost certainly become an opposition. On the contrary, it doesn't always have to be true, but it is important that we remember the moments often of injustice that we experienced here as a position at the time, and that we do not try to do them to others. So in this sense, I will vote for the proposal to proceed to second reading, but to modify it. I am quite sorry that the initiative came without question between the MPs and was signed on the basis of the request of the Reconstruction of the State, which has no experience with parliamentary work in the majority. And there I think that it also reflects perhaps a good intention, but not always the ideal implementation of the bill. I will support this amendment because it is parliamentary and because, as a colleague of Stanjura, I do not think that we should wait for the Government's bill on the Rules of Procedure of the House. That would be a real mistake. But I would like to draw attention to possible negatives. The first is that we are making great demands and we want to introduce new requirements for the preparation of the justifications of individual amendments. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in practice, individual ministries will also have problems with this provision, but above all, this will limit the rights of individual Members, especially of the opposition, because they will not have the Ministry's apparatus, several dozen officials, who will work on, for example, the evaluation of corruption risks. I see this as a practical consequence. And we will be in a situation where, instead of at least partially avoiding the reservations that were raised to the address of the way in which the laws are being dealt with, we will formally implement them, but we will not actually comply with them at all. This is the problem that is going to happen, and it will be similar to when the question of financial claims that the law will bring is to be applied to the law now, within the framework of the explanatory memorandum and it is not fulfilled. I would like to remind you that we have learned in the framework of the then submitted government bill, or the Civil Code, that it will not bring us any costs as a state. We all know that it will, and it will undoubtedly be the cost of hundreds of millions for the gradual application of this law. But these are things that, of course, can be dealt with in committee meetings. I would really like to point out that I will support the amendment in particular with regard to the introduction of an extension of the deadline between second and third readings. In fact, it will mean that the laws will be discussed at one meeting at first reading, at another at second reading, and at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at third reading. This means that we will extend the legislative process by approximately four to eight weeks, that is the minimum. [[11.50 hours]] The second thing I would like to underline is that it does not seem appropriate to me - it has already fallen - for there to be a difference between government proposals and parliamentary proposals, that is, that coalition majority here should have the opportunity to shorten the deadline to 48 hours, because each coalition majority will once succumb to the effort to speed things up, and consequently the main bonus, the possibility to assess amendments either to ministries or to individual members' clubs, will be reduced and the meaning of the law will eventually come to nothing. That is why I think we should discuss this matter. The deadline must be extended. And I would intercede for it to be shortened, for there to be a mechanism for shortening it, but for example three-fifths majority in this House, or as it is often designed by the veto of individual clubs. Let's talk about whether it should be clubs of two or three, because the number of parliamentary clubs in this House is rising in a dizzying way. So much for me. It's not a bianco check for this proposal. I think it's ripe for change, but there's no reason to reject it. That's why I'm gonna support him so he can move on to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u17	With a factual remark, Mr Heger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u18	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I took the liberty of acting as a response to Mr Tejc, because I may not be on the Health Committee to negotiate details on this law. I did not like the comment that Members do not have the opportunity to justify their amendments, as Members and ministerial servants who are currently working in the coalition do, while the opposition does not have the apparatus at their disposal. I think that just changing things in politics or in management only on the basis of impressions, and not well-executed analyses and expert assessments, which, of course, is sometimes valid, but that precisely this reason for rapid decision-making and impression-assessment is a thing that fills our system with laws with a whole series of wrong things. That is why I will definitely support the need for legislative footprint and proper justification for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too. Another party to the debate is Mr Kádner. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u20	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this proposal is tabled here. Important decisions and complex bills are often taken at committee and committee meetings. From time to time, it happens that in the context of complex laws, there is also a lack of poetry. However, the activities of these authorities are not sufficiently controlled. I have one more proposal for the committee meeting. In the last parliamentary term, I was co-chaired by the House of Press 835 under which a large group of Members were signed. This was a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which would allow members of the committees of inquiry to become not only Members but also other publicly respected personalities. Ironically, politicians are now investigating politicians in the committees of inquiry. If a citizen were present independent of Parliament, such an investigation would be of much greater importance. At the same time, such a member would guarantee a truly independent investigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u21	Another party to the debate is Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u22	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, my previous speaker basically took away my word in terms of content, because I would like to draw attention here to Section 48 paragraph. 1. It is indeed a proposal that has been made here, as I have heard, and perhaps has even been discussed in the last parliamentary term. This is the release of the second sentence of Section 48 para. 1 which provides that only Members may be members of the committee of inquiry. I was a member of the committee of inquiry to find out the circumstances of the death of Pavel Wonka in the early 1990s, and I know very well - of course I was not - that it is sometimes important for experts to be on the committee of inquiry to help Members where they need some expertise, such as then criminal procedural law. In democratic countries, I think that is why the parliamentary committee of inquiry has succeeded. Take, for example, the US Senate Committee on Investigation of the Watergate Case, or in Great Britain, when the case of media tycoon Murdoch was Murdoch. In our country, we know that the committee of inquiry does not celebrate any great achievements and their results usually disappear, we do not know how it turned out, virtually. it's closed with a dubious result that maybe it was like that, maybe it was different. So clearly, if I sum it up, I'm interrogating myself to get back to the proposal, virtually. It was incorporated into the current draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and in Section 48 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. 1 in the second sentence, they released the condition that only Members of the committee of inquiry may be Members. Now that I have the floor, let me make a general statement on the proposal of this amendment. I think he's very useful. Practice will show if it's practical, too. I do not have the experience that my colleague Tejc mentioned here, however, like many others, I fear whether there are certain dangers. As an example, I would just give a mandatory list of all those involved in the preparation of the laws. I myself have experience because in the past I have participated in the preparation of several dozen laws as an expert in a certain area, that sometimes I would like to be listed in that list, sometimes not. The reasons for this were certainly not lobbying, but they were of such a nature that during the debates I myself changed my mind. They were expert seminars, posts were published, and the view of the resulting form of the law changed, developed, and I do not know if I would then, because I have ever evolved against my expectations in a different direction than I originally wanted to enforce, I was glad to be listed as the one who participated in the preparation of a specific law. So on the one hand, I completely understand that protection from illegal lobbying should be there in the transparency that will be ensured or should be ensured by that list. On the other hand, I warn against the danger that I know many colleagues in the field of expertise, such as academics, but they may also be experts in the field of advocacy, judges who will not want to be mentioned. And what if we don't mention the judge who is very erudite to discuss a specific question with us, and now he doesn't wish to be listed, because, after all, the impartiality of justice must be protected at almost any cost? And we're not gonna put him there, because next time, he's not gonna discuss anything with us. How's that gonna work out? Am I going to be able to do something about it, or is it just, say, a violation of political culture? [[12.00 hours]] And finally, my final point. Regardless of the fact that a coalition government is likely to emerge here soon, which promotes certain interests, I think we should strive for such a political culture so that the balanced interests of the coalition and opposition are formal. This certainly includes the same privileges and competences in the area of the Rules of Procedure, which is a backbone procedural regulation for our work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, Madame Válková. And before I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Polčák, Mr Hovorka and Mr Adamec are prepared. I will ask all those who wish to report to the general debate to report in writing to avoid any concern that I may favour someone here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and gentlemen, I very much support this bill and allow myself to say a few reasons why. This law does not merely serve to limit parliamentary stickers or to limit parliamentary amendments, which are often the proposals of certain groups that have certain interests, these proposals are not properly justified, and then the rapporteur, or the rapporteurs of individual clubs, often try to find out what this amendment is intended to do in the roles of detectives. I would like to say that very often this current way, which today is in the adoption and negotiation of laws, also serves to circumvent the legislative process. It is in a number of cases in the preparation of laws that are going through certain public discussions with professional groups, etc., and is interested in a certain ministry so that certain intentions are not discussed in advance. That is why a very comprehensive amendment is often prepared, which will be brought to the committee where one of the Members or a group of Members will adopt it and then present it and often change the very original bill. I am here to say something in history that this House, perhaps, has not experienced anything like this. It was 2007. In 2007, an amendment to the law was discussed here, or it was a draft law on stabilization of public budgets. The law itself had about 300 pages, it was very extensive tax changes, changes in social, social benefits, and a very small part of the law concerned health insurance, it was about two or three pages of the proposal. But then, in August 2007, Mr Topolánek's amendment, which contained 50 pages, was brought here on the table or on the bench. He was the Prime Minister at the time. And part of this amendment was 19 pages of highly technical text, which dealt with changes in pricing and payment of medicines. This is a highly professional issue, which in the Republic understands very many people, and this was the meeting of an expert group at the Ministry of Health, which prepared a comprehensive change, which was to adjust the pricing and reimbursement of medicines from health insurance, which was to replace the categorization decree. The group met for about six months, and then this law was actually pulled out of the Government Legislative Council a few days before it should be discussed, and it was tabled as an amendment to the amendment that we received on the bench. And since we were given the opportunity to look into it then and found some mistakes that we pointed out were very serious errors, then then the then Mr Tluchoř was reading an amendment here for about an hour, which changed the amendment that had already been tabled on the bench. And I would like to say that something like this should not happen, because then there was the adoption of a change, which was actually the result of an amendment to a comprehensive amendment by a Member to a government bill. And something like this is not possible in normal countries of the world, but it is possible in the Czech Republic. Just to give you an idea, the three pages that were part of that government bill changed, or basically introduced regulatory fees, covering about five, five and a half billion crowns. But the change that was contained in those 18 or 19 pages of an amendment that no one has read, or those who read it, didn't understand him much, so it concerned one third of the cost of public health insurance, that's about CZK 70 billion, and it went through here like a butter knife. So I just want to say that not only Members, but also governments often try to circumvent the legislative process, proper commentary proceedings, and bring forward bills that are not properly discussed and change the original bill in a fundamental way. That is why I think that this bill, which is tabled, needs to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mr Polčák, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u26	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I must say that I am quite pleased with the discussions under way. All of my colleagues' speeches were very stimulating, with the exception of being a colleague. Tejc, colleague Hovorka now or also colleague Stanjura, Mrs. profesor. Válková as well. I merely want to say that, when submitting this bill, I have, to a certain extent, betrayed the petitioner along with others, that the proposal should be presented right now and now, because the House's Rules of Procedure Act has, after all, a certain degree of distinctive status and therefore requires quite a wide debate as well as the representatives of the new groups, which have already been mentioned here. Now it will have to be done the other way around. If I understand this correctly, perhaps there is an agreement that would prolong the legislative process of this particular law. Since the proposal must be made here in the debate, I will allow myself to read it in such a way that I propose that the deadline for discussing this draft law be extended by 90 days. It is obvious that this bill, however extensive the debate on it is, maybe even to some extent tedious, and that is what is really waiting for us - I see that some of the many Members look like a mine has exploded in that row and the Member is more like a random solitary unit - but the fact is that this bill needs to be moved to several committees in my opinion. This also needs to be clarified after the debate that has been held, which committees will be responsible for discussing this bill. About what was still falling within the legislative footprint, the inspirational performance of my colleague Stanjura. It must be said that I cannot fully agree to consider that the bill, even for the reasons that Mrs Válková has said, will include a list of all persons. In my view, it is important that it contains authorised persons who are eligible to make a specific proposal, whether he is a Member or whether he is a Minister. The Minister is politically responsible for what is being done by his Deputy or what is being done by his Director of the Department or by any other member of that department. The idea that we're going to record dozens, maybe hundreds of people in this legislative footprint is wrong in my opinion, and it's an idea that's not going in the right direction. Responsibility shall always be borne by a specific beneficiary who, under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, has the right to make a specific proposal, whether it be a bill or an amendment. Even in the committees, and I think this is to a certain extent painful, it should be evident who made the proposal, a particular Member, should adopt it, but it must be said that no lobbyist who is not a Member can make a proposal. He can do so only through the Members or through the Government, but then again the Minister is responsible, namely the entire government within its political responsibility. Consequences with legislative footprint with representatives of, say, the academic sphere, justice and others are, in my opinion, rather negative and do not bring too much positive for which it would be appropriate to support this proposal. [[12.10 hours]] Next, extension of priority rights. A colleague of Komárek said that this suggests to some extent that this is also an undemocratic rule. In the past period, these preferential rights have been extended to the political party presidents, unless they have priority rights already under office. This was particularly due to the fact that President Sobotka should no longer have been President of the MP's club and should have lost that right. At that time, the ruling coalition responded by approving this proposal and, to some extent, by extending the group of persons entitled to this preferential right to essentially double as the number of political factions that are represented here grows in proportion. I must say that the priority rights as such, in my view, do not cause a very significant problem in the legislative process. What can undoubtedly cause a problem that has already been mentioned here is an extension of the period of 24 days (?) for 14 days. I don't want to repeat my previous performance, but what my colleague said. Tejc, this means a possibility of shortening this time limit by a larger majority than the half-off, it also seems to me to be an appropriate solution, and I do not think that, if this regulation of the Rules of Procedure is to last one term and is not to be quite purposeful, at least here on this issue, a reduction in the extended time limit, which can only testify to the majority of the government, this adjustment seems to me to be very appropriate. It is also a question of whether to actually define certain types of proposals that would not have such a long deadline. Because it is indeed the fact that there will be an extension of the legislative process not by 14 days, as I have already mentioned in the previous speech, but it may also be the order of months, because this, for example, does not take place in the summer period under the rules unless an extraordinary meeting is convened. This must be warned to some extent, because it is often necessary, in the light of the need for European law of our commitments to international partners, to simply implement the approval of certain legislative proposals at a rather short time. Therefore, it might be appropriate to consider whether certain types of proposals, too, are I now thinking in terms of how they deal with the matter, whether they should not have a specially adjusted period of time. I can imagine, for example. the budgetary matters, after their due consideration in the committee of the Members, should not, I think, have such a long time to discuss. I think that, given the ongoing debate, I may have responded to everything that has been said here, as I said a moment ago. I believe that this proposal is eligible to be referred to the next reading, and I propose that the deadline for the discussion of this proposal be extended by 90. But since I have not consulted this deadline in principle with anyone, I am prepared for a different proposal if it should be longer or shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u27	In fact, I have Mr Komárek's registration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I think I have made an incomprehensible statement, as I have observed from my colleagues' reactions. So I am certainly far from suggesting that I limit the opposition. If we were to lay down some rules on debate, it would, of course, apply the same to government as to opposition parties, as we said in the election campaign. Same rules for everyone. As far as priority rights are concerned, I really think that we should consider whether we need it at all, whether we should all be equal in this House in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. At the moment, Mr Adamec is the last party to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, maybe I'll talk a little bit about something else. We're opening the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies today, and maybe I'll piss somebody off by talking a little bit about something else, but I'll talk about intercourse, but about chamber intercourse. Because I think that if we open the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, what we lack is a law of contact between the chambers of Parliament. I'm saying this from experience. When I was here for the first time as a new senator, I felt very embarrassed. I think that fellow Members of the House who have been here for a long time and who have gone to the Senate had a similar feeling because they treat you, not as if you were members of Parliament, but as if you were a foreign body who wants to say something that almost nobody cares what bothers him and what delays him. I am saying this because I know animosity in this spirit of the two chambers, I have been senator for six years, I have enjoyed it here enough and I think that when we open the Rules of Procedure, which, in my opinion, I see some adjustments more positively than some others, but I think, as a former senator, we have criticized mainly stickers of all kinds, even remembering the situation where the Senate has resorted to this not very nice way of regulating the laws, and then Professor Jičínský has made it clear to us that we are doing this quite normally, unlike the Chamber of Deputies, and I have said to him that I am sorry that we are doing it once or twice in ten years. So the problem is really here. However, I think that, as we open the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which will arrive in the Senate, it will certainly arouse interest in me in reopening the so-called 'Senior House'. the law of contact, so that we understand each other, because that's what we miss most. Parliament simply has two chambers. Remember that. I think it would be good to open this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u31	In fact, please Mr Gazdík and then Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, all I can do is answer my honourable colleague Adamc. The House's leadership, at its recent joint meeting with the Senate's leadership, has agreed that we should finally discuss the Senate's law of contact with the Senate in this parliamentary term. However, there really must be an agreement between the two chambers on the precise wordings of the law. We're working on it and we're working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u33	I thank and please Mr Kalousek with priority rights. It's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u34	Thank you, but I will try to fit into the time limit factually. I merely wanted to respond to a comment that considers that priority rights in speech should be abolished. The parties' chairmen, the factions' chairmen and the Members of the House of Deputies shall have priority rights. It makes a profound sense, because while in the ordinary parliamentary debate, each of us communicates our views and arguments, these are the people who are equipped with the mandate of their own political parties or factions to speak for a larger group. If anyone speaks on behalf of five, ten, fifteen, thirty-five Members, he should be provided with a priority right, provided he is in power. And here I am at the very debate we had in the program. If some rules do not suit us individually, let us try to change them. Because our chairman is not able to say a sentence from this place that would begin and end - let's revoke the priority right. Sorry, let's not do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Is Mr Blažek reporting with the facts? I asked in writing for a debate. But I begged because then you're accusing me of this. It's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u36	Hello. I'm not gonna blame anyone for anything. I say in advance that I will be willing to vote for the release of this law at first reading. But the reason will be completely different from what I have heard here today, and that is that I do not share the optimism of how this proposal is justified, that is, by increasing some transparency and improving procedural standards, democracy will improve. This is a huge, deep mistake that still exists that if we improve procedural standards, democracy will certainly be better and better. Before 1989, no doubt. The Federal Assembly had very good rules of procedure. However, I can hardly talk about the fact that it was democratic, and I could only continue. This means that if we want to change the rules of procedure, please do not call it a fundamental mistake, and maybe I would just say that we are improving democracy. [[12.20 hours]] Do we really think that such an English parliament is so good because it works so long that it has good rules of procedure? Democracy is about sharing common values, where we either share or do not share it, and by introducing committees of inquiry and constantly improving procedural rules if we do not share those values, we will not improve democracy. The investigation committee, whatever it is, depends on who's setting it up. If it is set up by Parliament, such a commission will always issue only and only a political decision. Always depending on who's a member. When Mrs Válková named the Watergate affair, that is precisely the example that had only political consequences, he never had any criminal law. And if he should have them, then someone else should. The fact that, in our country, virtually no committee of inquiry set up by Parliament has ever reached any conclusion is precisely because of this. I am passing the question entirely with regard to the admission of persons to these committees other than the members of Parliament, where we would actually find those persons and how we would agree on who is renowned and who is not. I repeat once again, even if it were just a purely civil commission, if it was set up by Parliament, it would always be a political commission set up by a political body, not a judicial body that can only adopt a political opinion. And there is no salvation for democracy from such a commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u37	Mr Stanjura, de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u38	Now I don't know exactly how to do this in a process when I want to talk to you while speaking through the President. Then I'll try it without the middlemanship. Madam Vice-President, it is not possible for you to say that the Member should report in writing. It's just not possible. That's what you need to change the Rules of Procedure first, and then you can demand this. That's just driving manipulation, that's all. It is clear that those who put in writing take precedence over those who claim to be hands. Everyone knows that. Those who have priority rights shall take precedence over those who have applied in writing or in hand. And the factual point takes precedence over those who have priority rights and those who have applied in writing and those who have applied in hand. But there's no way that you're gonna summon and say, "You, Mr Blažek, don't, because you didn't give me a written application." If Mr Blažek were to insist that he would be before those who applied in writing, you would be right. This isn't possible, and I'd like it not to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u39	If you don't mind, Mr. Ambassador, I asked. I asked Mr. Blažek next time. [[Disagree and cry Read the Rules of Procedure! from ODS benches.]] Please stop bleating at me. Thank you. Do you want with priority or de facto? [[Members of Kalousek.]] A real Mr. Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u40	I am asking Mr Stanjura not to blow the whistle on the President. They came here from another world. They agreed with Mr. President that things would be different. Well, get used to it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u41	Mr. Stanjura, de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u42	I know it's hard to say, but I'm an MP like you, so try not to forget it, Madam Vice-President. No next time, I was just begging you not to use it next time. The Rules of Procedure simply apply. If I want to respond to some performance by one of my previous speakers, I'm not running to sign up for it. Because it's usually a reaction. Like it or not. If you can't handle driving, then give it to someone else, next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u43	Thank you for the lesson and please logged in to Mr Polčák's debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u44	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm gonna try to lighten up the temperament a little bit. This shows why these procedural standards are needed, Mr Blažek, through the Vice-President. I believe, therefore, that we should, in some way, actually accept that the Rules of Procedure of the House must be amended according to will - not only to some random majority, but indeed to the representatives of all the Members' clubs represented here. I don't think it has to be a 100% match, but I believe we should find a consensus on the rules that we'll all follow afterwards. And the fact that a Member can also report from the place is the rule of the current and effective Rules of Procedure. I don't know if all the applications for the debate have been exhausted. I am merely pointing out how the committee of inquiry has been discussed here, perhaps a little in support of what Professor Válková said, that they have a similar arrangement in Germany. And the regulation there, which is also with representatives of a non-voting environment, is quite effective and the committee of inquiry there, which has been set up, I remember only two, I am not such an expert in German political science or German politics, but I know that they have had those results to some extent. So, on a flat-rate basis, condemn that there have not yet been any results in the Czech environment, the few that would be established, that is a fact. But that has something to do with that section 48. It's a question of how we define it. What rights and obligations will we incorporate or incorporate for members of these committees of inquiry. And, of course, how we choose such members, those non-voting members. That would probably be a critical problem. And of course, there are no limits to this adjustment now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u45	With Mr Blažek in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. Your way - Mr. Vlčák is really on the fritz. Pilgrim. I didn't respond to him, rather to some other messages. I was just saying, not that procedural rules are not needed, but a three-hour debate justified by the fact that the world will be better if the procedural rules are better, and democracy is better, is simply not the case. That's all. But I certainly didn't, and it was suddenly attributed to me that there was no need for procedural rules.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. Since I no longer have anyone enrolled in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiff if he wants the final word. It's not like that. Then I will ask the rapporteur if he wants the final word. It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. Mr. Polčák rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u48	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Since the legislative process is, of course, in contact with public space, there is still a committee - I did not consult with the President, but I think that the Committee on Public Administration, which communicates with municipalities, cities, regions, and to a large extent I think that this committee would be competent to discuss this bill, so that it would not be just a constitutional committee, so I would suggest that it should also be a committee on public administration and regional development. There is a clear reason for this, as I have already said here. And I think that previous amendments to the Rules of Procedure have also been discussed by this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Please, Mrs Chalánková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u50	Hello. Let me also propose a discussion in the Committee on Control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Any other suggestions? [[No.]] Okay. We will proceed to the vote on the motion by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, who proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee. I hereby initiate the vote on this proposal and ask who is in favour. Against? This is the end of the vote. The motion was accepted. It's vote number three. 183 Members registered, out of which for 168, against none, are staying 15. The next proposal is to order the proposal submitted for discussion by the Public Administration Committee. I am opening the vote on this proposal and I am asking who is in favour. I've got some real notes coming in here, so this is the end of the vote. I declare them misguided. [[12.30 hours]] I am reopening the vote on the proposal to allocate the proposal submitted for discussion to the Public Administration Committee. I hereby initiate the vote. Who's in? Against? I conclude with this vote and note that the vote on order number 5 in which 183 Members have been entered has ended with 102 Members and 12 abstentions. The next motion for a vote is to submit a proposal for discussion to the Committee on Control. I am opening the vote on this proposal. I'm asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote of order number 6, in which 183 Members are enrolled, for 164, against 2, abstained from 17. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Public Administration Committee and the Audit Committee. Furthermore, we have here to vote on the rapporteur's proposal, extending the deadline for a 90-day discussion. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask the appellant whether he agrees with this deadline. [[Member Gazdík agrees.]] We will proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal to extend the deadline for the 90-day negotiations? Initiating vote. Who's in? Against? This is the end of the vote and I note that, in voting order number 7, 183 Members were enrolled, 168 were in favour. This proposal has been adopted and the period of 90 days is extended. That concludes the discussion of point No. 1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-001-001.u52	We are approaching a point of discussion.
