ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u1	5. Members of Roman Sklenák, jeroný's proposal Tejce and others to issue a law amending Act No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other employees in administrative offices (service law) /German press 71/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 71/1. So please the representatives of Mr Roman Sklenák's plaintiffs... colleague Jeroným Tejc. At the same time, I ask the rapporteur, Mr Jan Chvojka, to take the position at the rapporteur's table. The plaintiff's representative, Jeroným Tejc, will take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, and the remaining members of the Government, allow me to introduce you to a group of plaintiffs for a proposal to amend the Staff Law, often also called the Officials Act. The aim of the amendment, which was submitted to the legislative process on 23 December last year, is to clearly depoliticize the state administration and improve quality, the qualification of individual officials in central administrative offices. I would like to point out that, unlike the previous government proposals that we have had here in the previous parliamentary term, this law will not affect local governments, i.e. municipalities and regions at all, and precisely because there is no reason to do so, and I think most of us agree that the law that applies to municipalities and regions is functioning, so there is no reason for us to intervene in a way that would bring more harm than benefit. I would like to begin by rejecting the criticisms that will certainly come and that have already come yesterday during the discussion of the agenda of this meeting, that the law purposefully responds to the current state of affairs - the creation of a government in the sense that, in any way, it softens the law of illustration, that it would, in any way, follow a change in the law of illustration. The bill that we presented was presented in the same version as it was presented last August, and I think that in August last year, no one could have known who would become a member of the Chamber of Deputies, although the polls had already indicated something, but no one could have suspected social democracy at the time that it would have submitted a law before the elections that would have allowed anyone else to enter the government under other conditions. This is, in my view, proof that the proposal, as it is presented, is not intended, does not have the objective and cannot be intended to change the law of illustration, because it does not affect it, and the only thing it insists on or where it intersects with illustrations is that the law of illustration remains valid and effective for all officials. And it's logical that if it doesn't apply to ministers and his cabinet, then he can't impose anything on ministers and his cabinet as a condition and anything as a condition to disturb. So much for this objection, which was made here yesterday and will certainly continue to be heard. Our aim is to prevent for the future such cases that we have seen in the past, and I do not want to name individual premieres and their governments, in which it was or was not worse or better, but there has always been a significant change of officials after the change of government, and often the replacement has not been given by the arrival of better-ranking officials, but rather by officials who were either more willing or politically attached to the new Garniture. That's the thing we want to change, and we'd change it systemically. If we accept this bill and the amendment that we propose, it will not be possible for the nights of long knives to be carried out in the future, it will not be possible for a special-purpose reorganisation to be carried out, when the minister managed to get rid of the head of the department by either abolishing the department or having merged and publishing, however formally, a tender for the new head of the department. And mostly, what kind of coincidence? People who had this qualification many years before had already failed, but who, for example, came to the Ministry a few days before the selection procedure or directly through the selection procedure. Therefore, it will not be possible for the Minister to decide to reorganize his ministry. The proposal will always have to be processed by the Secretary of State, the highest official at the Ministry. It will have to be presented to the Directorate-General and this Directorate-General will submit this proposal to the Government for all ministries, but the Government will not be able to change the proposal and will either agree or disagree with it. The fact that this proposal will be prepared by the Directorate-General for all the institutions that will fall under it will also aim at the fact that individual agendas will always be assessed from a comprehensive point of view, and thus, for example, if competences are transferred from one office to another, it will not be possible for the number of civil servants to be increased in one office with new competences and, on the other, the number of officials in that office in the first office has not passed, as has sometimes been done in the past, if the office has disappeared. I think that the new law will also lead to the need for a new government to reflect on this and to process the analysis in agreement with the Directorate-General, as reflected in the transfer of competences to individual regions, particularly in the field of education, health at ministries, and, for example, whether the number of officials at these central offices corresponds to the real need after a large part of these competences has been transferred to the region, where new official posts have been logically created. [[11.20 hours]] I would also like to comment on the proposal accompanying the legislative process, i.e. The Prime Minister Rusnok's proposal. I believe that the proposal is being dealt with less properly in the light of the legislative process than that of the Member, precisely because all the time limits for the discussion of this proposal, in particular the comments procedure, have been considerably reduced. And I would like to say that this proposal, as it would have been, certainly has its value especially in terms of legislative preparation and coherence. And here we will certainly be happy to use this proposal as another basis for the process of a comprehensive amendment. But what makes the government's proposal different is, above all, that it adds new bonuses to civil servants. It adds flat-rate compensation for clothed, adds flat-rate compensation for transport and also adds relatively high amounts of compensation in the event of the death of an employee for his family members. It is not that we would not wish better security for civil servants, but whenever the Civil Service Act appeared here and whenever its main objective was to add new benefits to or increase their salary, the law was logically not adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, subject to the fact that the Czech Republic, its state budget, cannot at the moment afford to burden the budget further costs of CZK 6 to 7 billion. And the law that was supposed to improve the system fell under the table just because it required additional and substantial financial expenses. That is why we, as the proponents of the parliamentary proposal to amend the current service law, have focused on not only not adding new benefits, but also disturbing some. We believe that it is not right to introduce the system of service as it is today in the police, in the fire department, and it is not right for officials to receive another pension or salary anywhere else after they leave the service. That if we want to motivate officials, we should motivate them with a stable job, a decent salary that will be enshrined in the law, and thus the official will be paid well for the time he serves the state, not after he no longer serves the state and works against the state in some private company. As regards the criticisms raised on this bill by the government administration, the first complaint was that it was a non-constitutional proposal, because the law does not include a payment mechanism and refers to the Government's decision by regulation. I would like to say that I agree with this observation in the sense that we will be working on a comprehensive amendment in cooperation with the ministries, so that the new pay mechanism is already contained in the law. But I would like to say no, that by what has been proposed, perhaps we would like to anchor a kind of unconstitutional state. We have only proposed to extend the remuneration system as it is now, for a period of one to two years before the government, whatever government, prepares the remuneration system for the law. Because this is a matter which it certainly does not have and must not be dealt with by a Member's proposal. And if we do this now within the 90-day deadline, then only in line with the government and the various ministries that will be the guarantor of the correct evaluation. The second objection to the alleged unconstitutional nature of our proposal was that while employees under the Labour Code are liable for damages up to four and a half times their monthly salary, we propose that officials be liable for damage caused by their actions by eightfold their salary. I think it doesn't matter if it's eight times or six times or seven times, but what's important is that you can't compare it in my opinion. The position of a ministry official who will have a stable career process under the law will be protected from political pressure, will be more secure than any other employee, but should also do a far better job, and if he commits acts that cause damage to the state, e.g. there is no reason for such an official not to participate in the payment of this fine, the damage caused to that particular Ministry, up to six or eight times his salary, because his protection is higher, his salary is usually higher than the average salary. We think, therefore, that it would be right for his responsibility to be higher. And I don't think it's a thing that's unconstitutional in itself. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] As I said before, we don't introduce any new ones from the point of view of benefits. We cancel the benefits, but we leave the severance pay, i.e. the severance pay, according to the Labor Code, at the rate of five salaries in case a particular employee leaves the office after more than ten years, and in the last five years, that is a new condition, he has committed no disciplinary offense. Thus, only those who have served for more than ten years and especially in the last five years have received a five - salary reward from the point of view of the disciplinary area. We would like the law to clearly establish links between officials and politicians. Therefore, the position of Director General of the Civil Service should be established. Its main task will be the coordination of education, preparation and systemization of those reorganisations in the various ministries, but also personnel policy in relation to state secretaries, i.e. those who will be the highest officials in the ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u3	Ambassador, I will interrupt you for a moment, and I will strongly ask my colleagues, given that we are discussing one of the most important laws of this parliamentary term, for peace. In case you have anything you want to tell your colleagues, or you need to make a phone call, please go outside the O.R. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u4	Thank you. The law will, of course, make certain changes. It is precisely the question of the relationship of the Director General, the Secretary of State, so-called. I prefer to call them senior directors of the sections, he can certainly admit changes in the Chamber of Deputies in the debate of individual parties. But one crucial thing should be guaranteed, and on that, I believe, we all agree that with the change of government, with the change of minister, comes - the minister goes away, his political deputy, which will undoubtedly be less than it is so far, the cabinet of the minister, but the heads of the sections do not leave, the Heads of the Union do not leave and the Secretary of State does not leave. These are things that should ensure better governance in the future. And I think it makes sense to debate, for example. with state secretaries on the principle of rotation, so that this top manager does not spend his entire career life in one ministry, so that in some way he has to pass through e.g. rotation to other ministries or other authorities. But that is a matter which we will certainly discuss in the course of committee discussions. I would also like to ask the plaintiffs to extend the deadline for 30 days, i.e. 90 days, i.e. the period between first and second reading, when we would discuss this matter in the various committees, because there will certainly be a number of proposals for amendments to the parliamentary proposal and it would be right for us to discuss them not only within committees, but also with the professional public, with non-profit organisations, trade unions and, of course, individual ministries. [[11.30 hours]] There was a complaint last night that the proposal was already being made with the fact that it would be changed, and that we all know that it is poor quality. So I would like to point out that social democracy considers the proposal to be of good quality, we just perceive that each of us can have a different view of how this thing is to be adapted. And I have, of course, seen serious comments from the coalition partners in recent days, but I have also seen comments from the opposition, and we will certainly be happy to find agreement on a comprehensive amendment in the constitutional committee or in any other, which will receive more support than the coalition in this House, so that, in the future, whatever government is here, the law will only admit minor changes, rather than fundamental changes that deny its meaning. So much for the opening. I'm sure I'll be happy to try to answer any questions or comments that may be heard here. And of course, I cordially invite you all to a seminar that will take place tomorrow afternoon in the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, those who are interested in discussing this issue in more detail. It is the first step towards finding some consensus across the political spectrum in order to actually create a quality law that will last here, not for one, but for at least three parliamentary periods. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u5	I thank the representatives of the appellants to Mr Jeroný Tejc. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that Vice-President Gazdík has acknowledged that we have a law here on today's day at the House, which is one of the most important in this period. That'll be nice from the top 09 rep. I'm glad the TOP 09 came to this view. I think that, in principle, the appellant has said everything necessary with regard to the specifics of the law, and I do not want to repeat it. I'm gonna start with a little personal memory. I, at some point on Christmas holidays in 2002, when I was a student of the fourth year of the Faculty of Law in Brno, studied the textbook of administrative science, from which I took an exam in administrative science at the beginning of January, and I had already learned a service law which was already valid, but it was not effective. And we have 11 years later, 11 years later, and that service law, except for some of the provisions, is still not effective. And I think that certainly being put into a legislative process is not because it should be some kind of illustration or something, but simply the reasons are still the same as they were eleven years ago. The Czech Republic lacks a law that would in some solid way regulate the conditions of civil servants, virtually. employees in the central administration, because employees - or the employment of officials in self-government is regulated by Law 312 of 2002. The reasons why this law should be effective are clear. It simply needs a better organisation, it needs better governance, it needs more control, and it needs political influence to be separated, that is, to separate the influence of politics from the office. The fact that this is missing here is not a good organization, there is no good management, there is no great control, there is no separate political influence, there is no instability of the professional apparatus, there is little responsibility, there is a bad division of responsibility. Of course, there are other reasons, also legal ones. I think that the administrative relationship should be dealt with not only on the basis of a private relationship, as is apparent from the Labour Code, but also on the basis of a rather public relationship. So I would just like to say that I am pleased that the appellants in their explanatory report have made it clear that they are watching the opening of a parliamentary debate on the content of the applicable service law, which means that it is not rigidly standing on those provisions as they present them, but they are open to debate. This discussion will certainly be needed and changes will also be needed, because of course the proposal is not perfect and there is a need for a broader political context and a broader political consensus - but it needs to take effect as quickly as possible. So I think I said everything. Maybe it wasn't exactly a news report, rather an opinion report. But the plaintiff basically said everything that was needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u7	I thank the rapporteur for his first reading to Mr Chvojka. I am opening a general debate to which I record 14 entries. Mr. President of the Civic Democratic Party MP, Mr. Stanjura, is the first person to sign up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. That was yesterday. I didn't know we were going to be discussing today when the coalition MPs didn't secure a 19-hour hearing. Thanks to the quality of my voice, my performance will be very short and I'll leave the show for our club to my colleagues. I will use this to very much argue with your statement, Mr Vice-President, that this is one of the most important laws. Maybe by name. I agree with that. Or one of the most important tasks facing us to accept him. I've only been at the Ministry for seven months, and it's not always true that there's always a minister coming to fire all the officials and bringing his friends from the political side. It's a fairy tale told by the translator Jeroným Tejc. Maybe some do, maybe they don't, and you need to look specifically at who did it. We, who have experience in self-government, are accustomed to having a secretary in charge of all personnel matters, including various appeals, and it is normal. However, when I tried to enforce this opinion, which many mayors and mayors have, try negotiating with the civil servants' unions, because I think that the law has proved relatively successful and that it was enough to de facto rewrite it towards civil servants. I wish it was the new coalition. It'd be just fine. My personal opinion has always been that it would be good if we had one law. That officials serve or do public service, whether in self-government or in ministries or in other public authorities. I mean, the government's performance is done by city halls. The citizen absolutely does not understand when it comes to town hall whether he is talking to an official in charge of self-government, or he is talking or dealing with an official in charge of the transferred performance of the state administration. And it's okay. There's no need to burden the citizen. However, in the long run, other conditions are planned for civil servants and officials of local authorities. I don't think it's good. Why do I argue with the opinion that this is the most important law in terms of content. So let's keep this text of House press 71 and compare it with the text that goes to the Senate in a few months. And then we have to wonder whether this meeting today was a serious attempt to find a consensus on a long-term solution that would be beneficial for the authorities, but also for citizens and voters, because it would be a qualified public administration. There's no such thing. We all know we're meeting yesterday and today to meet Mr. President's parole. One of the presidents of the coalition parties himself said that last night. I appreciate the openness, because he said, "We've got this condition, and we're either gonna meet it, and we're gonna be a new government, or we're not gonna do it, and we're gonna be Jiří Rusnok's government. I mean, we never voted to trust the government of Jiří Rusnok. We think it is wrong for a government to rule without a political mandate. And that it is good for the opposition to create a government with a political mandate from the elections. I'm sure that's what we agree with those who created the government coalition. We're not here to appoint a government. We are acting here so that one particular person can be appointed to that government. As a coalition, you've agreed to that condition, we don't think that's the kind of thing you should do. That the general rules apply to all and to proceed and measure to all alike. We call it totally deservedly Lex Babiš. Interestingly, Mr Babiš does not take part in the meeting, he does not comment on it. We met yesterday and today only because of him. Because when you send today, you who will vote in favour when you send the motion to next reading, the President will say, "The condition has been met." I can name no to the government - it won't say because it wasn't a condition. But he will say: I can appoint Mr. Babiš as Minister of Finance. [[11.40 hours]] So it's not a condition for a government to be appointed. It is a condition for one particular person to be appointed to government. The condition laid down by the President and which you accepted. I understand that if you were to proceed and the chairman of one coalition party could not be a member of the government, it would create political complications and threaten the emergence of the entire government. But that is a political connection and a political agreement, not a substantive one. Yesterday, we made it clear the link of this proposal and the link of the Service Act with the abolition of the obligation for ministers to submit a negative illustration certificate. Not to present a illustration certificate, as some say, but a negative illustration certificate. Yesterday I said that whoever reads the rendering law well knows that there are several categories of people who are not able to get negative, that means they get a positive illustration certificate. And they're far from just StB coworkers, but they're much wider groups. It should be noted that thousands and tens of thousands of jobs are protected by the law of illustration, and thousands and tens of thousands not only of those who work there, but also of applicants for that position must present the illustration certificate negative in order to have a chance at that position. Our chairman, Fiala, said here yesterday that we are introducing privileges for a certain group of people here. Yes, the number of government members could be 15, 16, 17, 18, roughly in these figures the size of all the governments that were here after 1992. So for these people, you are the ones who are ready to vote in favour, and I agree that the basis for this was laid in 2002, when few of us sat here, I agree. However, we who disagreed with this have at least postponed our effectiveness and have submitted another bill in the last parliamentary term, which could have dealt with a qualified public service, while not disturbing the illustration certificate. Then it's more honest when you say it doesn't apply to ministers so it doesn't apply to anyone. We are fundamentally against it. Basically against not paying the bill of illustration, and against making exceptions there. Allow me to formally propose the rejection of this law at first reading. Please... I will ask - I will ask the government coalition for the completion of the work of its expert commission, which they like to talk about in the media, that he is already working on the law, to present it much better as a government bill, so that what you are creating goes through a proper legislative process, so that all the things that have changed in the Czech Republic since 2002, that is almost twelve years old, the teams of legislative experts have captured, checked the context so that there are no unnecessary errors. When I listened to some speakers' speeches here yesterday or now in the media, I feel like those ministers aren't even important at the ministry. As long as it doesn't work, and as long as the minister doesn't talk too much. I don't know. I wish to all of you who will be in the Ministry not to happen to you that the Minister will want something and the officials will say: no, this is poor quality, Minister, it is politically motivated, we do not like it, we have a different, professional, independent, impartial interpretation or opinion. It's not like that. The ministries are intended to deal with qualifiedly, as efficiently as possible, but they are intended to serve to implement the government's political agenda. If anyone says otherwise, they're lying. There's no such thing. Or do you think the town halls don't care who the mayor is? That the office works the same way, whether the mayor is a Social Democrat or a Civil Democrat or a Christian Democrat? I don't think so. The office is to provide service to elected representatives of the people, whether at city halls, districts or ministries. I agree that they're not supposed to be big purges, and if anyone does that, then he's not a reasonable minister or a reasonable mayor. After all, the best thing that can happen to a person who comes to town hall, the county or the ministry is to inherit a qualified office that knows, knows and knows the political assignment of a minister or mayor. If someone doesn't do it, they'll dismantle such a qualified office, put their friends there, whether party, political, personal, family or corporate, they'll just work against themselves and sooner or later they'll catch up. In my own personal experience, I say that it is good for the state secretaries to be made head of office. We at City Hall have that experience, and we have a positive experience. I see a lot of current or former mayors or mayors here, and I believe it doesn't matter what political jersey we're in here, that the experience is the same. Anyway, why set up a new office again? The biggest Sir Humphrey in Czech res publicae? And how will he be chosen? Well, politically, if the government picks him. We think that the model where the State Secretary, for example, appoints the Prime Minister or the Government on a proposal from the Minister, is better, does not create a special office, does not create a superior officer who can be stronger than ministers or prime ministers or the entire government. We have heard from the plaintiffs that it is necessary to prevent the ministry's special-purpose reorganisations. I agree with that. But who will judge what a purposeful reorganisation of the Ministry is? What if the minister comes and says, "There are too many people here. We need to make it more efficient, here we can save 50, 70, 90 jobs." Not because, not because, you know, you know, you trade those 90 people for your corporate, political, party friends, but because the office could be effective. He won't stand a chance if we keep the bill as it is. Because only officials will decide whether the Ministry's organisational structure will change. I think it's from wall to wall. Let's talk about reasonable limits, reasonable terms, a reasonable frequency of such changes. Let us talk about the fact that the Minister should have other instruments after taking up his duties and other instruments during the entire term of office, because the Minister too must bring his people. And now I say this as an opposition politician, as a person who will not worry about this government, and neither will my colleagues and colleagues worry about this. But the idea of the minister coming and the office not changing, he brings no one, I think it's either naive or dangerous. I don't know what's worse. So the targets are similar. We are prepared to have a qualified debate on how to ensure, on the one hand, a stronger position of civil servants, so that they do not fear every election, every change of the Minister, that they will replace everyone from the deputy to the last doorman. On the other hand, I think that the series of politically appointed persons may not be in the order of the troops. I think the Deputys are political figures. In our view, we need to decide between the Deputy Ministers and the Secretary of State - the Secretary of State is not a political figure, the Deputy Ministers should be. The Cabinet of the Minister is undoubtedly a political body, it is political functions. But when we say that the cabinet of the minister doesn't fall into the civil service, we don't say anything yet about what everything and who everything can be inside the cabinet, and we start talking about it, and I think legitimately, arguing and arguing about it. Counselors? Yes. PR department? Yes or no? It's complicated because it's supposed to promote not only the minister, but it's supposed to inform the entire ministry about its activities. Somewhere it was also personnel stuff, etc. I think the best thing we can do today is reject the bill or return it to the petitioners. It would be much better if the government coalition came up with its government bill that we're ready to work on, I already said it yesterday, not because someone from Brussels threatens us with a finger that if we don't have it, they won't send us the money we're entitled to. At the same time - we have not found any support in European law for the fact that without adopting a service law, someone could stop us from getting European money. But we need it for ourselves to meet the goals we are talking about, for ministers of this government or some of the following governments to come to an office that works professionally. [[11.50 hours]] And since the condition given by the President, which has been formulated that Parliament will approve the Staff Law at first reading, is no such thing because it is not proposed in the '90s, I think that if you want to argue with the President, Parliament will certainly discuss this bill at first reading. But you yourself say that what's written there is going to change forcefully and significantly. So to make this a normal service law, so that Lex Babiš doesn't stay out of it, I think it's best to reject the proposal today, and you come as a new government, either by way of a parliamentary initiative or by way of a government proposal, with your own draft service law. Then it won't be Lex Babiš, it won't be dedicated to one person, but it will be the thing that the Czech Republic really needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u9	I thank President Stanjur and ask the President of the TOP 09 and starosta Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, honourable Members. I would like to reassure my previous speaker, President Stanjuru, who doubted the quality of his voice. Though he hoarsed audibly - I wish him an early recovery - his voice was of a much higher quality than the model that lies before us today and which we are discussing. [[Fun.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the text which is presented and which is allegedly being discussed will be addressed by my fellow Members from the MP's club. Please allow me, as club president, to convey the key opinion of the club and the reasons why we will all vote in favour. We're not discussing the law of service. Even the petitioners acknowledge that a comprehensive amendment will be drafted, i.e. that there will be a completely different text before us than that which is now on the table and which we are only discussing because we are actually doing something completely different. In fact, today we approve Lex Babiš. And I admit that the lex isn't exactly accurate, because lex means some legislation has been approved. It will not change the letter in the legal order, but the cooperation of members of YES, ČSSD, the People's Party and President Zeman will change the 23-year constitutional custom, we believe that there will be cynical and purposeful violations of the rule of law, because the obligation to present a demonstration certificate is, in our opinion, certainly laid down by law, but if you would like to follow another legal interpretation, it will be cynically violated by a long, unchanged constitutional custom until today. She'll be broken by tomorrow. Ministers appoint the President of the Republic, which means only the President of the Republic has the right to request the submission of a negative illustration certificate. The President has promised you that if this text - I dare not even say a draft service bill - goes through the second reading, he will stop demanding those negative proof certificates. If it were only for President ANO, if we had approved here today - without our votes, of course, but if the Chamber of Deputies today approved the paragraph that the rendering law does not apply to Andrej Babiš, it would be significantly less dangerous, because it would only apply to Mr Andrej Babiš. What you are doing today, in cooperation with the President of the Republic, is nothing more than opening up a wide path to all former State Security agents, but also to all State Security officers, simply to everyone that the Prime Minister is, as long as this government and as long as this president is, he intends to appoint ministers, simply because the President will cease to require a negative illustration certificate. That's what you actually do. And I would take the liberty, I suppose, in vain, but yet I dare to appeal to Members of the Social Democratic Party as well as to Members of the People's Party as members of two historic, state-building and undoubtedly democratic parties, so that you do not do so, because you are opening Pandořin's box and admitting the broad possibility that formally defeated velvet revolutions will become real winners after 25 years, as they have always planned, and as they have always sought to do. I would like to ask, through Mr President Herman - he, a year ago with great courage and very competently managed the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes - how he feels when he and his colleagues in the Institute of Memory of the Slovak Republic before November 1989 were documenting how he feels when he opens a wide path to government with these exponents in cooperation with the President of the Republic, and how the engineered minister, who is prepared to cooperate with these exponents alongside his shoulder as willingly as they did with the former regime. I don't really want an answer, even though I'm asking, because there's no credible, yet publishable justification. In this case, either one or the other. Both are ruled out. Ladies and gentlemen, please get a grip! The Embassy Club will vote in favour of rejecting this agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u11	Thank you to President Kalousek, and now duly registered as the first member is Mr... pardon, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Membership Club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I signed up at the last minute, I did not plan to, but unfortunately, the chairman of Kalousek has been repeating himself for three days, giving some arguments for three days, receiving answers. Today he says again what we discussed here yesterday before the beginning of the meeting. [[He didn't fail.]] I didn't, yes. And I guess I have to, even though we've explained it several times, react again to at least some of the words that he said here. One. The fact that we are already admitting that a comprehensive amendment will be drafted does not mean that we admit that our proposal is of poor quality and needs to be corrected. The fact that a comprehensive amendment will be drafted expresses the will to find a broad consensus, thus not to push our vision, our idea, but to work out a proposal on which there will be a broad consensus. I don't know what's incomprehensible about this. Second thing. Words about opening the way for coworkers and exponents of the previous regime. Again, we do not talk about the illustration law at all, we do not regulate it, and therefore it is not possible to argue that following the adoption of this amendment, the journey will be open to the co-workers of State Security. And I have already said it here yesterday and I repeat it, and in particular, my colleague - through the President - Kalousek, if you are asking questions here about how Mr Herman feels, I cannot forgive myself and I must ask how you feel, who moralizes us here, you call for us to come to our senses, and it was you who voted here in 2002 that ministers would no longer have to have a demonstration certificate! You passed the law here, and now you're moralizing us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u13	Thank you to the Chairman of the ČSSD Parliamentary Club. Mr. President of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u14	Thank you. I'm sorry, but I feel obliged to answer. We didn't explain it yesterday, Mr. Chairman. You're just trying to explain the unexplained, and we're trying to tell you that's not true, unfortunately. I wish you were right. If the obligation to submit a negative illustration certificate is removed after the law has been passed, and you say there is no such thing, that is, there is no such thing. It will happen today by your vote today! Again, two constitutional institutions: the majority of the Chamber of Deputies, the Chamber of Deputies, and the President of the Republic have agreed... That's not my interpretation. I interpret Mr. President's public pledge to be heard in the media. I, the President of the Republic, who I appoint members of the government, if he passes this text to second reading, that means without changing into legal order, I, the President of the Republic, will cease to demand a negative illustration certificate. [[12.00 hours]] That means the rendering law will be - the letters will remain, but they will be useless! The rendering law will become inoperable. We can agree on that, for God's sake! Because if the President of the Republic doesn't require a demonstration certificate, then the rendering law will just be out of order. You are concluding this agreement, and in today's vote you will sanctify it, and Lex Babiš will be approved today without changing a single letter in the legislation. And we say that it is all the more dangerous that it does not only concern Mr Babiš, but according to the President of the Republic, as the only constitutional institution which has the right to require a negative illustration certificate, it will simply concern any other minister who will be proposed for appointment. That means, you don't disturb the law of illustration from voting this agreement, I agree with you, he will remain valid, but he will be completely useless because no one will apply it. It just becomes inoperable. That is why I am asking Mr Herman how he feels about this. And I will answer you the same way I answered yesterday - well, if I could, with a clear conscience and without blaming myself, sign all the votes that I have had in the KDU-ČSL T-shirt, I did not leave the party, Mr President. Both hypocrisy of KDU-ČSL to deal with the past was one of the main reasons why many of us left the party in 2009 and set up a political entity where something like this is not allowed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u15	Thank you to President Kalousek. The President of the ANO Member's club, Mr Faltýnek, is also entitled to priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm so sorry about President Kalousek, but I feel like he's got it all mixed up. I wanted to raise a question that he had already basically answered, and the question - through Mr President to the Chairman of the TOP 09 MEP, Miroslav Kalousek - should have been: in what particular and how the adoption of the service law was abolished by the Illustration Act or its effectiveness. But since he's actually answered that question, I'm not going to ask that question, and we've all heard the answer. But I just made one technical comment about what the former Minister of Transport Stanjura said here. You see, Mr President of the ODS Club, I have experienced - I am sorry - through Mr President - I have experienced the so-called. an online presence of one of your ministers at the Ministry of Agriculture. [[The President. Through me, please.]] He was one of your biggest agricultural experts, Minister Gandalovič. And Minister Gandalovič, when he came to the office, brought 35 to 35 people from the Ministry of Regional Development with him. And I and perhaps some of us who are in this House have had the opportunity to discuss with these people. These were the closest co-workers of the Minister - in the cabinet, advisors at the level of union directors, not to mention the Deputys. And I can tell you that, unfortunately, you're wrong that it will catch up with the minister if he takes these people there. It'll catch up with the resort. It'll catch up with the resort. And the damage that has been done there has been repaired for quite a few more years. So in this context, with this particular experience, I would urge that in the next process of this debate, no matter what happens today, and I assume that colleagues from the potential opposition will keep repeating what has been said and will bring nothing new and will only revolve on the political plane, so that then there will be an expert debate, so that together we will be able to present a modified standard that would ensure that what Minister Gandalovič has shown is not done there. That's my request to all of us. I'm sorry to mention a particular person, but I personally have this experience, and I think we should all learn from it. If anyone is interested, then I can give specific examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u17	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. The rapporteur, Mr Chvojka, asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have such an unfortunate role today that I am the rapporteur of this press, which means that I will have to sit here all this time and listen to 14 other colleagues duly registered and plus probably those who will be logged in with a priority word. I think these shows are gonna happen again a lot, 'cause we really don't hear anything but Lex Babiš. There is no answer here to why, in the few years of the former coalition's reign, nothing has been done to the service law, why nothing has been done with civil servants, why this sphere of Zu grunt is in principle today, but we will listen to something about Babiš. I started my news appearance by learning administrative science at Christmas in 2002, and even then the service law was invalid, it was not effective. We have 11 years later, and the service law is still not valid - it is valid, but it is not effective except for some provisions. I'd like to answer one single question, and then I won't report back, because it's no use. But what about Christmas in 2002, when I was studying for the administrative science and the law had already been passed, did Babiš have in common with the House, or politics or today's government coalition? He was just paying the bill, he was supposed to do better with the state administration in some way. The state administration, or the operation of those civil servants, is not regulated to this day. This should be done both legally and on the basis of some EU requirements, and it simply is not regulated by the state administration. So what does Andrej Babiš have to do with this, why do I have to listen to this as a reporter, and I'm gonna listen to it all day. After all, Andrej Babiš may have counted chickens in the Vodňany, but he had nothing to do with politics. So it's gonna happen again, I'm gonna listen to it all day, I get it, I'm a reporter, I have to take it. But try to shorten it somehow, because nothing else - I don't hear any other competent argument than that it's about Babiš, the rendering law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u19	With a factual point, please, Mrs Chalánková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u20	So I see that the new coalition is also bringing us new order. And I want to answer the question of what the service law of 2002 has to do with Mr. Babiš's journey to the government. I think you have heard this quite clearly and it is at all the reason for calling this meeting and the request of the President to discuss the first reading. Who knows what's next, who knows when, but that's enough for him. And just so that Mr Babiš would become a minister - through Mr President - and I would like to say that the legislator - that the legislator certainly did not assume in 2002 that someone who could not bring a negative illustration certificate would want to go to the government at all. [[Laughter from the right]] Times change, you're right, but at that time he probably thought it would prevent him from honor and conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u21	Thank you, Madame. And I would like to assure the honourable colleague that Mr Babiš will certainly not become Minister through me. With another factual remark, Mr Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u22	Hello, hello, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I don't like it here that, after all the reflections and discussions, colleagues clearly prejudice the decision of the court that's in motion today, and they just put it like it's a fact. I beg you, let us wait for this decision and, on the one hand, when I have the floor: please, I have not heard in the last two months that President Zeman would have linked the request to discuss this bill with any appointment of Mr Babiš as minister. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] Maybe he's worried about this law not getting under the table again, and he wants to get his hearing going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u23	Thank you, Mr Volný. With another factual remark, Mr Adolf Beznoska from the Civil Democratic Party. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u24	Mr President, colleagues. I am only very briefly, because I am enrolled in the general debate, so I will only briefly respond to my previous speaker with one quote, a quote from the President. " Let us therefore accept the service law," says the President, "and I, as a gesture of goodwill towards Mr Babiš, if this law passes at first reading, will consider it a sufficient guarantee to appoint Mr Babiš as Minister of Finance." So much for Mr. President's quote. I'll be back. . [[Applause for Members of the Right]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u25	Thank you, honourable Member. And now, with proper application, Mr Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna try to calm down the atmosphere a little bit, that I'm actually gonna go back to the actual draft of the law. So hello, Mr President, honourable members of the government in demise, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to make a few comments here on the submitted draft Civil Service Act. At present, I see the presentation of this law as purposeful, as President Miloš Zeman made the appointment of Andrej Babiš as Minister of Finance, as has been said here several times. Like it or not, the President said so during the month of December last year. However, I myself am aware that the civil service must be depolitized and also professionalised. In the proposed bill, I criticise that there is no proper analysis of the impact of regulations, which should be drawn up in detail for such an important standard. Moreover, the bill did not go through the proper commentary procedure as the government proposal on the civil service has now been submitted. And he didn't actually pass a reminder procedure between the resorts. I see that as a big minus. Despite the fact that during the last parliamentary term in the preparation of the then government bill on public administration officials, this parliamentary proposal, which we are discussing here, was considered a very good counter-proposal and a number of non-profit organizations were very positive towards it. However, it happened that the petitioners of this bill did not perfect the law at all and only copied the same law of 2013. I personally expect, as has also been said many times, that a number of amendments will be tabled, including those comprehensive ones that will change the entire law. It may therefore be that the original law will only leave the name and the content will be completely changed. Moreover, there may be legislative chaos because two identical bills will be discussed in the House, one MP and the other government. At the same time, the fact that there is a service law from 2002, which is not effective, the effectiveness was postponed until 2015, and the Act on Officials of the Public Administration, which was submitted by the government of Petr Nečas during the last parliamentary term, but unfortunately this law was not possible to discuss at all from the workshop of the then Vice Prime Minister Karolína Peake. I will now move on to making several critical reservations directly to the draft Civil Service Act tabled here. As I have already said, I see the proposed bill as very purposeful, without due link to the legislation in force. For example, there is a dispute about compliance with the Constitution or with the rule of law and other laws. However, I miss this essential in the proposal and this is the periodic verification of the expertise of officials. If we take the view that if a person becomes an official and is not tested after a certain period of time, at the frequency of changing our laws that we produce here in the Chamber of Deputies, he will be completely out of reality after three to five years without continuing vocational training. Various contributions, such as transport or benefits, are also debatable. This must not be completed because the government's proposal is counting on them because it has set aside 6 billion in the budget, and the proposal here does not count on it. But I think we need to have a proper discussion about this. A significant problem is also the part concerning the salary of civil servants. The draft law does not provide a proposal for pay rates. Which means I can't tell what the clerk's salary will be. I can't tell my constituents and other people anything. This is also related to the financial analysis of the bill, which is carried out very casually. I see another dispute in the appointment of a senior official, the so-called Director General of the State Administration. There is a real problem with who will name it or withdraw it or confirm it in its capacity. It is also unclear in the proposal how it will look with the selection procedure in the so-called transitional period, which the proposal counts for two years, in the years, I think, 2014 - 2016 or 2015 - 2016. Depends on when the proposal comes into effect. This may happen if the selection procedures are not clearly established, so there will be no depoliticisation of the state administration, because between the two years that will be in that transitional period, those jobs in the government can be accessed by people who will be politically deployed there, and after that transitional period, I will eventually not be able to refer them back. So it's going to be very interesting, too, and it's going to be very debatable. So we're going to have to have a proper discussion about this on the committees or at second reading. In conclusion, I would say that this is a very interesting potato potato, to say the public, which needs to be properly completed. To do this, we must exert our powers, especially in committees or in second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u27	I thank Mr Klán. The President of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Tejc, came forward with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u28	Thank you for the floor. Only very briefly for the comments that have been made here. This law, of course, is going through a proper legislative process. It is a parliamentary proposal, i.e. the Government has the right to comment on it and has also expressed itself. And the reason why we don't need to go through the entire government process from the beginning is simple. We are merely proposing a change, a minor amendment to the law, which will remain the same of 90 percent, and it went through the legislative process in 2002. It was a proper government proposal, negotiated on all ministries, so, in that sense, the complaint will not stand up in my opinion. As far as education is concerned, we really want officials to be educated. And here I agree. I'm sure every process of education in this law must be precised. I believe that we are quite far in agreement within the coalition working group so far. Our goal is for the state to guarantee the exams and, of course, we are debating how this education is to be conducted. I'm sure there's already an agreement on how this basic process will be set up by the Directorate-General, and we need to find a consensus on how this education will be carried out. But we all agree, and I am sure that I agree with Mr Pre-Speaker that it is right and appropriate, and that is also the law and the proposal that the lifelong education of individual officials should be carried out, because without that, of course, we will not have good public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u29	Thank you, Mr Tejc. I will ask honored colleagues to reduce the noise level, especially the ring around the designed Prime Minister. I'm asking him to keep his voice down. I'm not really reprimanding him. With another proper application, Mr Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues, fellow Members, the parliamentary proposal on the service of civil servants is based, as has already been said, on the draft adopted previously. Personally, I believe that the aim of the law should not be merely to stabilise and depoliticize the state administration, but, in particular, to create a transparent, functional, efficient and uniform system of governance as a public service to citizens. We have to admit that we have not succeeded so far, and it is a huge deficit in the transformation of our society after November 1989. [[12.20 hours]] The law should also be based on public regulation, as is the case in Nordic countries, for example. I therefore lack the determination of relations between political and official functions. I lack a uniform system of arrangements and a uniform supervisory system. The proposal also does not provide sufficient protection against bullying of superiors, and it is problematic to call for justice. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have long advocated the introduction of a uniform remuneration system in our country, based on performance and objective evaluation of the work of officials. In our country, there are still several unconnected remuneration systems, which are contrary not only to the principle of transparency but also to the principles of equal treatment. While the Service Act can solve this fundamental problem for officials, it does not solve it comprehensively with regard to compliance with Articles 78 and 79 of the Constitution in force in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, the proposed proposal repeals the valid but ineffective law of the State Administration Institute, abolishes the contribution to retirement, rewards for exemplary service, on the contrary extends the applicable grade from 12 to 16, and at second reading it will probably be necessary to fine-tune the method of appointment and dismissal of the Director-General and his representative, the limit for the Institute of termination of service due to detention proceedings. In the law, I also lack a solution to the co-operation of the staff member's salary in service with the services of persons previously employed in the Security Corps or armed forces. The Civil servant Service Act introduces a different level of compensation to that of other components, which, according to the Government and the Government's position, is unconstitutional. I don't think so, but I also plan to unify this compensation for all civil servants. What I believe is necessary and must also be specified and clearly clarified is the scope and duration of the transitional period for the introduction of this law into practice. It must be borne in mind that, following the adoption of this law, the government will, in its view, function only in one generation, when a modern and professional public service is created, services for citizens, not against citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u31	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Mr Martin Novotný also signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start a little bit from the woods, maybe from a very distant reality. When the Czech company reflected the hypocritical epoch, which it had recently completed in 1968, a number of works were created in the Czech cinema, which was intended for the essence of this epoch. One of my favorites is the movie White Lady. I don't know if you know him. It is a film that ends with such a memorable scene, where the inhabitants of the city with joyful smiles, with joyful expressions on their faces, walk on the new bridge, which was built by the White Lady, the wonder figure of this film. They walk happily on that new bridge, smiling and completely ignoring the fact that this bridge doesn't exist, that it's wading through water and that they're in this water up to their ears. The situation today reminds me of this scene from this film. There is a miraculous figure in it, in this case the President of the Republic, who, on the basis of a legal act which has no relevance, is the negotiation of a law at first reading, says that there is a new epoch of interpretation of reality by illustrations in the Czech Republic. The second analogy is the joyful smiles and sometimes the joyous cries of our colleagues from one political entity who feel that this is a scene in which to have a good time and to have practically fun. When we started this parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, there were big declarations and big words at the beginning: we're going to do things differently. When I looked at the websites of a political entity yesterday, I found two of his three main political priorities. One is: the same rights for all, the same rules for all. So we're starting this new period because instead of this nice and billboarded beautifully sounding expression, we're going towards a reality that's more of an Orwell family of sayings, that's that some are equal, but others are more equal. Then there's a lot of talk about building a new reality so that our children want to live in it. Companies around us, we are not the only exception, states such as Germany, countries to which we sometimes cling in terms of the quality of their legal order, but also their political culture and customs, have led on matters such as illustrations, their validity, expiry, preservation, extension of a highly cultivated public debate involving not only politicians but also professional scientific institutes, cultural authorities of those countries, intellectual authorities of those countries. Among other things, in Germany, they recently decided to extend their validity until 2019. In this new reality of the new political culture, we are making an act by which we decide on the interpretation of the rendering law through a political agreement, some conditional statements between the President of the Republic and the emerging government coalition. I would like us to stick rather to the political culture in the regions from us to the west and not to take such steps, because it is very often not the way back from such steps. In Czech mythology, Czech fairy tales that our children listen to when they learn and when they create their character include a kind of motif of the Fates. They say what one wants to build a new era into wine. I fear that those who have come to the House in this parliamentary term with great words as they want to change the world around us for the better, at the very beginning of the first steps they are doing, are putting into wine something that can affect the epoch very negatively in future years. In the next readings of this law, I am prepared as mayor to discuss this law factually and show that the coin has two pages. As it is important, on the one hand, that all those who work in public administration and work there as experts should work in a stable, certain and transparent environment, which, of course, defines some certainty at the same time. At the same time, I have experienced many times as mayor situations where it was very difficult to implement the political will of political representation due to some rigidities of the current state. I consider the preservation of some kind of elementary space for political representation to shape the personnel world around it to be a very important principle. However, I do not want to comment on this until the second reading. Today I am more interested in the symbolic message of today's act. I don't think the Fates who invented today's act are giving us anything good in wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u33	I thank Mr Novotný. Mr Grebeníček, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was not so long ago that the future Sobotkův government adopted the state budget of Rusnokův's government, but only a slight correction of the proposal prepared by the people around Kalousek. This was said to have happened because there was no time or political conditions for this budget to be revised fundamentally. Plus, they said there was a risk of budgetary make-up. [[12.30 hours]] Therefore, I do not make a great illusion about the further development of the Czech Republic. Among other things, because there is still a policy dominated by confrontation, scandals, politicized government and incompetence of governance. Čech, Moravan and Slezan often do not know what to do with their state. In a dysfunctional state, which is essentially despised by its own citizens and stolen from various mobsters, all arguments about national interests or the position of our republic in Europe, as well as debates about its past, are quite reactive. So when some political and non-political actors have recently stressed that their main goal is to create a functioning state, I understand them quite well. Of course, there would be nothing worse than a quick adoption of some legal pasquil, such as the one currently discussed in the Civil Service. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to discuss the well-prepared and professional public today and all the stakeholders discussed in the bill, our decision-making would be easy. Unfortunately, that is not the case. According to the explanatory memorandum submitted by the appellants, the opening of the parliamentary debate on the content of the applicable service law, the achievement of political agreement on its amendments and the possibility of the full effectiveness of the service law as soon as possible. According to the Government's opinion on this proposal, however, this is a bad draft which is being brought into conflict with the Constitution in force and which is not prepared to be implemented in accordance with the legislative framework in force. I understand that the European Union, in its experience of corruption and political abuse of state administration in the Czech Republic, urges the accelerated adoption of the Civil Service Act. Today, however, we are in a situation where the quality design is not on the table. And an extraordinary meeting was convened not because it requires the interest of the Republic. An emergency meeting was convened, not to benefit the Republic, but to discuss something quickly, without proper preparation, because it wants and needs a newly emerging government with a political or strange reason that the President ordered it from it in exchange for agreeing to appoint one of the coalition ministers. So the alleged depoliticalization of the government should actually start directly with a political trade in the "I'll give you something when you adopt the law, no matter what quality, but as quickly as possible" style. I certainly cannot consider this to be the responsible start of a government coalition. Rather, it reminds us of the effort to follow up on the style that their predecessors showed here and ended up with the so-called restitutional pascula and the trafic affair. Of course, it's a newly formed government group, a new government. But if I had adopted or tolerated this special-purpose failure and ignored the hand that came to our table, many others would have anticipated it. My tolerance today could give the petitioners reason to believe that this old style is still possible and suitable for their rule. I refuse to live in a state - I quote it in this context, Andrej Babiš - where some drug lords and pumpers manage the state and steal taxes. I'm going to the public administration because the state is in complete decay and no one is driving it. Politicians have turned into organized crime, and the country works with inertia. If I were to compare František Mrázek to some of our politicians today, he was still a decent man. [[Loud laugh from the left side.]] Even Andrej Babiš considers the present Civil Service Act to be a special purpose paskvil. The President said he wouldn't ask him for a negative illustration certificate when the House law at first reading, as many of you have mentioned, approves. But it is also because - I quote again Andrej Babiš - that ANO said that without Babiš he would not go into government. And then there was a choice that the government would be with me, or it wouldn't be. Then he categorically added: First - I do not need any illustration certificate. Second, the rendering law should have been abolished long ago. [[Punching into the benches from the right.]] That's what I understand. That's what I understand. I understand that. That's straightforward and in a way honest. Let us repeal the Illustration Act, which contradicts international conventions on human rights and the Constitution of the Czech Republic. There's no need for complicated procedures. No need for proxy maneuvers and the presentation of legislative paquilas. In the event of the repeal of the Illustration Act, it is sufficient simply to decide that a standard that discriminates, denunces and scandals people on the principle of collective guilt and without evidence. And as we are here, let's not go around the bush, but let's pour the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, pure wine. In recent days, a member of the People's Representation, or folklore, has not excluded the possibility of a positive illustration of his coalition colleague from the ANO movement with exclusive access to the resources of former State Security. Today, however, you want to make an evasive move, according to the President of the Republic, so that they both sit next to each other and sit together in one government, and in this process you want to continue the undemocratic style of governance, to divide people into chosen ones, for which laws can also be turned inside out, and to treat others with which you need to treat as a piece of rag. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask myself what kind of danger may be to the current state, for example, a person who, a half-century ago, but even a quarter century ago, signed a commitment to protect the economic interests of the Czechoslovak Republic and to announce, upon his return from his business trip, attempts by foreign services to obtain it for damage to the economic interests of the Republic. How is such a person worse than the various kožený, who have prepared to become their political or economic process, or dirty anti-state lobbyism and corruption, by tens or hundreds of billions of crowns? Younger may not know, but there are plenty of those who know and cannot deny it, from the beginning a strong politicalization of the state administration and its connection with the Civil Democratic Party was not random. It was a targeted policy. Similarly, his own political party, according to his own words, was a mere personnel agency through which the folklore put their people everywhere. When the HR agency became too sloppy, he started another one. [[12.40 hours]] The result is unbiased corruption, distribution of newsstands and gradual degradation of state administration into the role of service organization of parties in power and their godparents and clients. Instead, they were making substitute campaigns, reporting fictitious risks. After all, those who made the decisions did not even keep secrets from them. It is a well-known fact that, from the beginning, the Prime Minister Václav Klaus and the Interior Minister Jan Ruml own rendering laws were almost ridiculous. On the outside, they both covered themselves for the benefit of their party in the political struggle, but in their own functions, both of them employed, used and entrusted them with important functions or work in extremely important positions relating to the economic and internal and external security of the state. But evil languages claim that experts blackmailed by the illustration law with their political patrons had to repay protection by keeping their mouths shut about the political and criminal tunnelling of our state. Václav Havel, as you know, refused to sign the rendering laws when he found out that they were reaching out to his closest colleagues and friends. That's when he began to talk about the human tragedies that caused these legal pasculas. Were the friends of Prime Minister Klaus Dušan Tříska and Ivan Kočárník a danger to the state and shareholders? Undoubtedly, yes. But not for some record in some kind of registry. Is it a risk, as many suggest, to the businessman Andrej Babiš? Maybe so, maybe not, but it has nothing to do with any record in any of the old registers. The least risk to the state and the citizens' wallets was probably Viktor Kožený, according to the rendering standards that have been applied so far, because he never committed himself to protecting the interests of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, if the President of the Republic is making fun of the newly appointed Prime Minister today and is tasking him with a legislative task that needs to be carried out by morning and preferably yesterday, I understand. It is an extremely funny reminder from the hrad that it is the President of Social Democracy and his party who have butter on their heads from the past. The President of the Republic with his demands de facto merely suggests that it was also the Social Democrats who in the past had the opportunity to put an end to the politicisation of the state administration. It reminds us that it was also the Social Democrats who had the opportunity to abolish unconstitutional illustrations and also to adopt a quality service law. Neither of them, nor of others, voluntarily, and they did not make their own responsible decision. They've avoided both. The motion now tabled on the path to responsibility does not testify again. Both the quality of the processing and the method of presentation are quite ordinary special purpose handl. The Chamber of Deputies is once again maneuvered into decision-making on the newsrooms and the interest of the government newsrooms instead of respecting the Constitution and the real needs of citizens. Instead of trying to really improve the state administration and eliminate clientelism, again only a useful intermediate step. I dare say with full responsibility that I do not see the slightest reason to tolerate or even support this masquerade. Yes, I am one of those who signed proposals initiated by a group called Reconstruction of the State, including the adoption of the Service Act. I had no problems with this, as the above proposals are part of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia's electoral programme. What bothers me, however, is the fact that we are to judge something that is definitely not to be called a legislative handsome. Yes, there is something that we used to call ourselves back and work on the draft under consideration. Of course, I would welcome such a step by the petitioners of a not-so-quality service law so far. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u35	Mr Svoboda and Mr Schwarzenberg came forward with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Svoboda, first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am mature enough to be part of this congregation's doyen age. I've heard the words that shed light on what we're going to vote on today. Our colleague Grebeníček told us that our duty is to abolish the rendering law. It's clean. I remember 1947 and 1948, I know words that communists can say and hide behind legal and clean aspects. I remind you not only of you, but I remind all our citizens. At this point, we are not discussing the Officials Act. We're talking about the rendering law! That's a thing I'll never, ever raise my hand for. I have too much life experience for this, and I'm too old to bend over to anyone, no matter what initiative they call myself!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u37	With another point of fact, President TOP 09, Mr Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u38	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to express my congratulations to the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia on overcoming the class struggle through the President. That their prominent Member, Mr Grebeníček, stands firm here for Mr Andrej Babiš's billionaire, congratulations on that. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] That was really something I wasn't expecting. Congratulations. Of course, sympathy for State Security plays a role in this, but that is a typical Czech phenomenon. I must say that I would continue to congratulate the other, namely that, once again, the representative of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, here, has been rocking and blaming social democracy for not starting to depolitize the state administration. On the part of Communist to blame social democracy for not politicizing government, that is what is normally called chucpe. That is, if you murder your mother and father and then ask for mercy, for you are an orphan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u39	With another point of fact - President of the KSČM MEP Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, time is slowly filling up for lunch, and there seems to be pre-lunch nervousness. I just want to say a little something at this point. I do not know how, Mr Schwarzenberg, through Mr President, or anywhere else, you divide your members of the parliamentary club into prominent members and others. This is not really the case with us. Even in the case of Mr Grebeníček, who has certainly done a great deal of work for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, and certainly deserves to be a prominent Member, but there is no such division in our country. [[12.50 hours]] I understand some of you who don't like his assessment of post-November development because he called it the way people see it, I mean people in space, people in the Czech Republic, people in towns and villages, people who just don't like what was going on here, and it has nothing to do with State Security and anything else. So that's the second point. And the third point. Yes, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has a bill tabled in this House, which is classified from the Organizing Committee at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and which proposes to abolish the bill of illustration. And I think that even the problem that we've been talking about here the next day and which is being interpreted here, in any case, would be largely and forever solved. Instead, we're fighting past wars here, and I don't think the citizens wanted us to vote for either of us, right to left, to the Chamber of Deputies. And the point to overcoming the class struggle seems very smiling to me. Of course, we don't stand up for anyone. We stand up for justice and justice. Until something's proven, it's meant to be seen as an innocent person. [[Time warning]] At this point, I would like to ask to stop further discussions from starving, for a break at the KSČM club meeting for a duration of 9 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u41	On this request, I am interrupting the meeting until 2:30 p.m. with a lunch break. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, let me continue our adjourned negotiations. According to the list I have before me, I have a factual remark from Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is more or less passable because more than an hour and a half have passed since the heated debate that has been here, so I would just briefly make two comments on the previous speeches that have responded to my colleague, Miroslav Grebeníček. As for the former Mayor of Svoboda, who here spoke of the paradox when the communists talk about purity, morality, etc. etc. It seems a little spicy or paradoxical to me when, with pardon, the former mayor, who, along with other former councilmen, is being convicted of the opencard, and there are other things behind them that are very suspicious, so when we, as communists, attack us. That's one point. The second thing I'd like to say. I am not surprised that ODS, TOP 09, simply members of the government coalition, respond so irritablely to Mr Grebeníček's words that it is more important to respect those who have signed up to protect the country's economy. It is clear to me that Members of the ODS and TOP 09 as a former government coalition of the country's economy, but not just the economy, certainly did not protect and gave a clear view to it by citizens as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u44	With another factual remark, Mr Grebeníček. [[He doesn't want to get out.]] I am odmazávat, and then the President of the MP's club ČSSD was signed up for a factual remark. [[He doesn't want to get out either.]] Yeah, that was before lunch, lunch was over. That's speeding things up. However, with a factual point or with priority rights, the rapporteur of this press. Mr. Chvojka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u45	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to talk anymore, but I have to. I would like to point out to my colleagues, especially the new ones - this is what it looks like here in the House. We are discussing a service law, a law that should improve the functioning of the state administration in some way, and I think it is all about quality, that the state administration works better than it does so far, and it is, of course, the European Union's demand, but, as is customary in this House, the communists talk about the 1990s, Havel, Klaus, Kožený etc., ODS talks about 1948. So I would appeal to us just to deal with the service law. I think Havel, Klaus, Kožený, not even 1948-1949 etc. They have nothing to do with the law. I am in favour of not shortening the time that an individual Member has for his speech in plenary, I am not in favour of any changes in the Rules of Procedure, but we could really consider them after the experience of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u46	I thank the rapporteur and the President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u47	If we were politely raised, I wouldn't have come here. I noticed yesterday that the rapporteur, when he talks about the President of the Republic, said Zeman. And today says Havel and Klaus. He's extremely brave for how old he is. Next time, please, Mr Vice-President, President Havel and Mr President Klaus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u48	Thank you, and we've dealt with factual remarks, if no one has another. I would like to apply properly to Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u49	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not like to follow up on the words of the rapporteur, who instructs those who are new to the House, how it should be and how it has been in the past and who should behave here. So if, Mr rapporteur, at the beginning of your speech or today you have regretted yourself - oh yeah, I must be the rapporteur for this bill, so I have no choice but to endure it here and to listen to all the talk that will happen here - so do you, as we all have a choice, Ambassador. You are not forced by the rapporteur to this bill, through Mr President. You are certainly willing and happy to accept this role, and certainly, when you voluntarily and gladly accept it, you also see it as a certain privilege, because in the Chamber of Deputies there is always only one chosen person who is the rapporteur to a specific law, who follows this law from his cradle to his announcement in the Collection of Laws. He is the one who can explain to the public all the sneakyness of both material content and procedurally, i.e. how he was discussed, what his opinions were about him, being some kind of mediator towards the public. From this point of view, I think that this is a very privileged role, and I think that in the past most Members, if not all, have very much appreciated that they were parliamentary rapporteurs, this role. It seems to me that it would be good for us to continue this good tradition, and if someone doesn't want to sit here as rapporteur, listen to arguments, then he has a simple opportunity - to give up this role. Now, ladies and gentlemen, about what we're doing here, why we're here. I think this whole special meeting is a total public confusion. The lay public is trying to show that the birthing coalition majority cares for the welfare of the state and that, in fact, the purpose of this meeting is to discuss the law of the service or the law of the officials as you wish. Lex Babiš has already adopted the title of this law for the dedicated public. I would almost say that this is unfair to Mr. Babiš, because he is not the creator of this law, he is only the one for whom all this must be done. I would change the title of the law to Lex Zeman, because that is the condition of President Miloš Zeman for this law to be passed. It's a condition for a coalition that says, if you don't comply with me, you won't have a government. And all I'm going to leave in parentheses is that the president has no legislative initiative from the Constitution. It cannot stand at the beginning of some legislative work with its proposal, which will promote here any majority or any minority in the Chamber of Deputies. The President of the Republic of the Constitution stands at the end of the legislative process, the Constitution gives him the opportunity, if he disagrees with the law, to return it to the Chamber of Deputies, and the House as the legislature of the Constitution has the power to overrule the President of the Republic. [[14.40 hours]] So the Constitution gives the House clear authority. We, Members, are legislators, and we are the only ones who have an influence on how the laws in our country will look. There can be no one here who will give us his terms, preliminary terms, interim terms and conditions of his requirements so that we can adapt legislation so that he is satisfied, whether it concerns questions of personnel or material matters. Perhaps it is a bit of an empty straw beating, but precisely because this meeting is such a front for the public, it is supposed to give the impression that a normal legislative process is actually underway, that everything has started, that the Chamber of Deputies works, that the coalition has a godly intention, and that it is instantly triggered, so it has to be repeated that it is simply not true. That we are gathered here for an emergency meeting for something without which a government coalition could not arise, and this could not only arise if the Czech Social Democratic Party did not allow itself to impose such a condition. I will not go back to 1948, but I will go back to 2013, to a debate that led to the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies. At that time, you know well that the Czech Social Democratic Party succumbed to the pressure of the President of the Republic, expressed its confidence in the government of Jiří Rusnok, and that was at the beginning of the turmoil that this party itself became one of the state-building parties. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I don't blame anyone for having the preference in the presidential election he has. I'm a Sovereign Democrat, and I can do this, and I can do this, and I want to tolerate it all the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u50	I apologize, madam, but I dare ask my honourable colleagues to remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u51	It doesn't bother me, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u52	Not only are we dealing with a serious issue, but the lady also speaks to us, gentlemen. Please calm down, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u53	Thank you, but it doesn't disturb me. I just wanted to say that that was when the Social Democrats took the will of the President and it came back to them right after the election results were announced. If this party has not understood that if it continues in this direction, that it will be pushed again and again into the corner by the demands of the President of the Republic, it will consciously contribute to the destruction of the parliamentary character of the Czech Republic. We have also said a lot about the meeting's direction, but I, as a parliamentary matador, can remind you that in 2002 the Civil Democratic Party did not vote for the Officials Act, nor for the abolition of the Illustration Act. I was here then, and my vote record can please be found. From this point of view, I have a completely consistent view, and the members of the Civil Democratic Party were those who had defined themselves in substance against the bill at the time, and they have the desire to discuss the law that is new. If, of course, we had something to discuss if there wasn't a cover-up with the name Andrej Babiš. I will not be forced, neither here nor in the media, to lead a pseudo-debate on what is all the content of this parliamentary or government bill. There are two of them, and neither one of them is capable of seriously and seriously dealing with them, unless we want to despise ourselves, like those who have come to the appearance, to the confusion, to the brainwashing. After all, the parliamentary proposal clearly states - it is so bad that we sit on it and redo it - for Christ's sake, and why should we discuss it now? What kind of fog are we creating here? Whether it's the Directorate General or not. If the government votes for him or the president votes for him. Everything's gonna change! The debate is going to be completely different! The completely different text on which the coalition agrees, God knows when, is only the text to be subjected to a substantive and normal debate here in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm not gonna waste any of my time reading it, and I'm gonna co-create it, and I'm gonna make it seem like it's actually a normal legislative process. There's no way he's running here, ladies and gentlemen! It cannot even run in the case of a proposal submitted by the Rusnokův government. She's in remission and she's sending the law here like she's on a treadmill. Yesterday, an organizational committee meeting approved the agenda for the meeting to begin on 4 February. On his program is 40 - sorry, 78 points and of them is a large part of the laws in the first reading. For this large part - more than 40 laws - more than half are the laws presented by Rusnokův's government. Does all this seem normal to you? Do you find it normal for us to have a debate over the laws of the government that have been in demise since August 2013, and we are here to create an illusion that it is normal that this is not a major flaw in the legislative legislative process, and we are going to sit here and act in a matter of fact? There's no way I'm doing this. I will not participate in the confusion of the public, I will not create the impression that because of the fact that the government is finally coming into existence - and I say finally, ladies and gentlemen, that you should hear me out of social democracy. I want to create a government that has gained legitimacy from the elections. I'm not standing here to defend the extension of the death that President Zeman has set here by disrespecting those idiotic constitutional practices. I'm not standing here to prevent your government from coming into existence. I honor the results of the election, I think you should have been appointed as president by now, and your government should have taken up its role long ago. I suppose that would have happened if there hadn't been an obstacle with the name Andrej Babiš. If that's just a pretext for the president to keep Rusnokův's government as long as possible in the positions he promised them, I don't know, I'm not from examining President Miloš Zeman's movement in his head. But that I don't like his actions, I want to say that here clearly and fundamentally. I would like to ask you all not to add to the frustration of the Czech public, so that you do not pour oil into the fire. The Czech public was disappointed by what was taking place on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, our drastic disputes against which, yes, the then government coalition paid off in the form of an election result, but the lords of social democracy who fought against us so fierce years of opposition, in this dispute, in this way of war, made absolutely nothing. And the last word. When I started with the rapporteur, I also quit with the rapporteur. If he calls for the fact that we should behave in some way factually, in some way more normal in the Chamber of Deputies, it is a pity that you did not apply this call here at a time when the weekly obstructive session was here day and night when your representatives were reading all possible literary works here, making up lyrics, or even reading the pre-prepared ones prepared by your apparatus. It's all in my head. You'll find it all in the tapestry. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that the Civil Democratic Party will not be involved in the substantive discussion of a law which has no substance whatsoever. Its essence is pure politics. Its essence is that under the pretext of this law and others it is intended to create an illusion that factual, practical, useful steps are taken towards the public in order to establish a law that will provide better practice in managing the country. There's no way that's happening. The point is that it is to turn around and maim the legislative process only because this senseless condition is imposed by the President of the Republic, and the point is that you all know it well, but of course you are bending your back, and you are approaching this condition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u54	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. With a factual remark, the President of the Czech Party's Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, Mr Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u55	The Directorate General will, the Director General will be nominated by the government, appoint the Prime Minister. This is for Mrs Němcová' questions that it is unclear. But I volunteered to propose, on behalf of the Social Democracy and KDU-ČSL MPs, that we should act today and vote after 19 and after 21 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u56	I take this as a procedural proposal, which is put to the vote immediately without debate, and therefore I am opening the vote on this proposal in order to negotiate today after 19 and after 21 hours. Initiating vote (number 22), now. All in favor, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who got held up? For 108 Members, against 2, 62 abstained. [[of the one present 172]] I consider this proposal accepted. So today we will continue to act after the 19th, even after the 21st hour. [[14.50 hours]] Another party to the debate is Mr Adolf Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u57	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me, too, to express my fundamental opposition to this purposefully discussed first reading of the proposed law. The Institute of the Czech Republic counted on the Service Act in 1993. Of course, it was not published in the Collection of Laws until 2002, it was originally to apply from 1 January 2004, it was gradually postponed, so now its effectiveness should occur from 1 January 2015. Unfortunately, I have to say that the law, and I'm going to touch the material aspect, is very poorly prepared. Indeed, the current Rusnokův government, when Prime Minister Rusnok said that the amendment was unusable in his view, did not reflect the changes that have occurred since 2002, which is a relatively long period of time. I personally say that this law is also unconstitutional. It proposes that officials be punished up to eight times the salary, with both the labour code and the rules for civil servants setting a maximum of four and a half times the salary. This clearly violates the principle of equal treatment. Here I must also mention what Mr Tejc, the draftsman, said. Unlike him, I don't think this is right. That's not right. The second thing that goes against the Constitution is that the law states that tariffs and remuneration are laid down by a government regulation. But the law does not define him, which he would have to do with legitimacy. Furthermore, there are things like the law proposes to terminate the employee's service in custody after nine months. Of course, because when someone is in custody, he is not yet convicted, and this breaks the presumption of innocence. Furthermore, the law proposes that any recognition of an administrative offence be a reason for the termination of his employment, which seems to be very steep in some legal interpretations. There's just a whole bunch of things that I'm just giving as an example to prevent us from calling the draft a good one. It's just a legal pasculi. Why, then, was this legal pasquil presented to our House? Well, because he was supposed to cover, he was supposed to create a smokescreen for a simple political hand. The only reason is that the condition of the President of the Republic of Mr Miloš Zeman should be granted so that Prime Minister Sobotka can form a government in this case at any cost. And why do I say it's a legal pasquil? I also allow myself to use the words of one of the coalition chairmen, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, who says that the final form of this law must be changed. A comprehensive amendment will have to be tabled on which all parties to the coalition agree. And as a witness, we do not agree that the rendering law should be abolished. These are all the arguments for me to call this bill poorly prepared. Of course, and are we talking about how the service law applies to the rendering law? Let me give you a hint of that connection. One. Together with Act No. 218/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other servants in administrative offices, this is the law of service, the so-called implementing regulation for the Service Act was approved in 2002. Act No. 309/2002 Coll., on the amendment of laws relating to the adoption of the Act on the Service of Civil Servants in Administrative Offices and the remuneration of such employees. Implementing Act No. 309/2002 Coll. then, by means of its Article 47, amends § 1 para. 2 Act No.451/199 Coll., which sets out some other prerequisites for the performance of certain functions in the Czech Republic. The current wording of the Illustration Act also includes the general general clause in § 1 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) which states that the need for a pure illustration certificate relates, inter alia, to the performance of functions occupied by the election, appointment or appointment in the bodies of the Czech Government. By amendment of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of the Illustration Act by means of that Article 47 of the Implementing Act, this general wording will then be clarified by means of the functions in the authorities of the state for which a pure illustration certificate is required means the service posts of the so-called superiors under the Service Act. The following are the service posts presented under the Staff Law: Head of Department, Deputy Head of Department, Head of representative office, Head of Department and Deputy Director of Department, Head of Section, Deputy Director of Section, State Secretary and Deputy State Secretary, Head of Service Office and Deputy Head of Service Office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u58	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I don't know what it is, but every time the Prime Minister of Design shows up in the hall, the noise levels go up. I don't know if it's good news or bad news for this House, but I'm gonna ask you to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u59	It doesn't bother me either. I'll add to my voice. On the basis of the above amendment to the Illustration Act by means of the implementing law to the Service Act, the need for a pure rendering certificate to ministers or deputy ministers will no longer have to apply, but only to positions considered as service posts presented under the Service Act. And that's the whole thing. That's why there's a law of service and a law of illustration. So, of course, I will also add to the fact that this is a purposeful matter, a purposeful presentation, and that we are really discussing the purposeful implementation of the law on one particular case for one particular person. This isn't supposed to be a new political culture, as I've heard it from the ANO movement. You know, originally, the introduction of the rendering law had two planes. First, it was an attempt to prevent State Security agents from being infiltrated into the state administration, and secondly, there were simple moral reasons to point out what was already unacceptable behavior. We can make laws, we can fix them, we can set people up as we please, but what we can't and can't do is reboot character. This was the purpose of the rendering law, and this is the purpose that the rendering law must fulfil without referring to a particular person. That is why the rendering law was adopted. Yes, there is certainly an anti-lustration coalition in this House. Communists, soci - I am very surprised that the Social Democrats as a standard political party want to take this step. There are people here. I am very surprised at them because I thought that three years outside the House served them to cross their shadows. So they don't do things at all costs. As early as this morning, President Kalousek said something about it and asked Mr Herman how he felt about how he was going to vote. And I'd like to join it. Because when a coup was led against the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes last year, the Civil Democratic Party stood up for it. Yes, the rendering law loses its meaning over time. But not before people of birth go to the state administration in 1972 at the earliest. In the meantime, even if the only representative of the state security, the criminal regime she represented, could perform any function, the law would have its reasons. And it is very charming that this is how we perform this production in the House in a week when at least some of us commemorate the 25th anniversary of the so-called Palachův Week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u60	Thank you, honourable Member. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vojtěch Filip, came forward with priority rights. Before going to the table, I would like to apologize for today's meeting of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček, on account of the official visit of the Slovak Republic, Mr Pavel Blažek for personal reasons and Minister František Koníček for other urgent work matters. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u61	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, I shall return to the subject of the negotiations. I'm not here to argue about the political context of this meeting. It was simply called upon to sign, as all the government coalitions did, all the opposition in the past and in the present. I do not think that this is something abnormal in the parliamentary system of democracy. It's just that some of us see something more than it is. As for one more comment before the law itself, you know, the rendering law itself could be called Rita Klímová's law. Because someone was interested in adopting this rendering law to withdraw Rita Klímová from the position of Ambassador in Canada and replace her with someone else, there's just one sentence, one paragraph, one letter that handled it. Just yes, all political forces after November, but even before him, even in the first republics, made laws that had a purpose. Just don't want to, the law is only the will of the ruling class promoted to law. I'll go back to the service bill. Law No 211/2002 Coll. has been valid for 12 years and has not yet been effective. Perhaps we should think more about why it is ineffective and why none of the government coalitions, whether led by social democracy, ODS, whether it was KDU-ČSL or the Green Party, which also promised a different direction, or the TOP 09, which also promised a different direction in 2009, as well as Public Affairs, never reached the effectiveness of the law, even though they claimed to do so at every visit to Brussels. And the purpose of this is always to see it, and I am very sorry, because it will never stabilize the state administration and the public service will always be built as if a service that is in its own way preferred and in its own way rejected. I would like us to deal with the fact that neither the proposal that we are debating right now, but neither the proposal that arose in the government, is essentially dealing with what it has to deal with, because either it has not dealt with the comments of the various ministries, as it is in the government, even though it has given the agreement of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government for a good reason, so that a standard would appear here at all, which will accentuate the fact that, after all, the simple solution presented by the group of Members is not, but even this proposal has not been made to deal with all the comments of the various departments. Let me show it to you on one simple thing. If we are to have an independent competition authority and it is for the President of the Office and its Vice-President to appoint the Director-General of the Civil Service as the last official, we will find ourselves somewhere where we do not want to find ourselves. And I would ask that you, next time, do not underestimate those who make the law, those who are either in the coalition benches or in the opposition benches, but do not underestimate the Czech public either. She always adds up to you because she's gonna find out something like that. I can imagine how many things in front of the competition authority will be about mergers, sales, whether in other matters, and I would not dare to humiliate the competition authority in this way. In my opinion, I would like to add something about what other independent authorities are like in the constitution, how we should treat them, so that by ordinary law, we do not allow ourselves to deform the Czech rule of law into a state that is far worse than a dispute maybe conducted in a media manner between the President of the Republic and the incoming government. You know, it feels to me like we want to hurt ourselves because we won't be able to respond to the fact that in every decent parliamentary democracy, the Prime Minister is going to see the president or the monarch in the European monarchy, and he's arguing about who will be in the government. It's never the will of one or the other, it must always be the will of the same. We're the only ones playing the best pusher around here. I think the self-harm has already reached a stage where we should at least avoid it. Therefore, allow me to say my position, which is based precisely on the fact that I do not wish to continue to stretch out any situation that arose because of the fact that there had to be extraordinary elections, and that was not caused by the opposition at the time, nor do I wish that there should be no new government, no matter what the reasons for the current government's continuation, but in any case I wish that the Civil servant Service Act should be created in a form that corresponds to the needs of the Czech Republic, so that those who will serve the state really serve the Czech Republic, so that we do not deal with corruption cases that have been the subject of daily disputes in this House until 2013. There wasn't a single week when we didn't do something like that, and the police weren't getting any more busy, even though they were being smashed by specialized forces by former Minister Ivan Langr. That's what we've witnessed here. And I don't want it. That is why, even on this misguided standard, I want to do the honest work that we have done here as Members over a number of proposals, whether by MPs, senators, regional councils or government, and finally reach a stage where such a law will not only be valid but will also be effective. That's my statement. And one of the many that I have here on the bill, which I will keep for second reading, or in committees, I have applied. I applied it to plenary so that we know that we are acting above a standard that is most necessary, but that it does not have a form that corresponds to the needs of the Czech Republic in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u62	I thank the Vice-President. We have a shrink of factual remarks here. Mr Bronislav Schwarz came forward with the first factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u63	Hello, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm new here. I'm watching this, left side, right side, and myself, and I figured everybody's wondering what's right for them. Well, I could use a word now, too. I could use one important thing to say. Your chieftain from your side of the Ústí Region has directly brought Mr. Konopásek's state police officer as head of office. It was called a corporal. And your captain respected the legality and fired him. [[Note. Sten.: meant probably ours]] That's what I needed to say. That's all I have to say. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u64	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Martin Novotný will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u65	Thank you. Do you, Mr Schwarz, through Mr President, wish that Mr. President, in the case of Mr. Babiš, should act legally as a Communist Governor or illegally as an Fedish governor? [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] But that wasn't the point of my factual comment. I wanted to turn to President Filip and tell him that we should not be so self-righteous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u66	Please, through me, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u67	We should not be so self-righteous by your means, for it is not true that only the monarch would decide in the Czech Republic. For weeks there has been a firm agreement and the future government is decided by the common will of the monarch and oligarch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u68	With another factual remark, Mr Novotný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be caught up in every word that will be heard here today, but I have noticed one word in the speech of the Vice-President of the House, and it was an expression that the ruling class decides on the laws of this country. So I firmly believe that all of us - and I am a little sorry that the Vice-President of the House does not feel that way - feel like representatives of free citizens regardless of classes, gender, political views and anything else, and that we regard the laws of this country not as a product of the will of the ruling class, but as a product of the free citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u70	Thank you. I just hope that Mr Novotný meant Vice-President Filip. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u71	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues, so I recalled on that last note a billboard. Middle class, fight back! It was a class fight! [[Laughter, applause.]] But that's not why I volunteered. You know, it's all over the place. I have witnessed this problem in the Chamber of Deputies since 2002. No one here said that in those unfortunate years before 1989 there was one official in the Czech Republic to almost 150 citizens, today it is one official in 40 citizens. It is not just the government, it is the public administration, which has a huge share in its delegation. Nobody touched that here. You know, dealing only with government without public administration, or without delegated authority, is half-hearted. When we remember the year 2000 and the establishment of regions, where one has the population as the city of Ostrava and four more than a million 200,000 inhabitants, there was the cause of the increase of officials in the Czech Republic. Then the county authorities cancel and the creation of troika communities, and if you count in each district how many officials have grown there, and they live in a completely different way from those in the government. And when we canceled - or created new regional authorities, we transferred to them primarily in transport, education, health, the environment, but oddly enough in the ministries responsible for this activity until then, the number of officials had not decreased. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u72	Thank you. The rapporteur of this law, Mr Chvojka, has also taken the floor. He's downloading his application. So we continue with proper applications, and it is Mr Radim Holeček's turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, through the President, to Mr Opálka. Yes, there were fewer officials before 1989. Absolutely. Because a number of offices were handled by the StB operation. [[Ironic laugh and applause from the left.]] I think we all agree here, probably with the exception of the now applauding communists, whom I congratulate on yesterday's 90-year anniversary since the death of . . Lenin, that the rendering law in the form in which it exists is an acceptable form of protection within the Constitution against undemocratic elements before November 1989. As a teacher, I see its meaning primarily in moral terms today. Although political here can also not be neglected. The meaning is brighter than the sun. Those who have morally and politically doubted under the previous communist regime, the totalitarian regime, must take their responsibility for this misconduct. And that's how I teach my kids. I teach it to children in the form of a fairy tale about kids and a bad wolf. That fairy tale is interesting in that, ladies and gentlemen, that it has two variants of endings. One option was to get rid of the bad wolf by throwing it in the well. We did not choose this option to solve the problem with communists and aesthebians, so we go to the humane one, the great one, and that is that the punished wolf has stones in its belly. And by having rocks in his belly, he is once and for all disqualified to do bad things. The new service law in this understanding of its promoters is intended to enable what is inaccessible at lower levels. How am I supposed to explain to my children, and not only children, that they need a pure illustration certificate to be elected to the academic Senate of the University, but the Minister doesn't need one? Will Prime Minister Sobotka really bring us a wolf with stones in his belly? The wolf who's connected to another story that's now well told. It is a story from one of the carnival afternoons of 1982 from one of the Bratislava wineries U Božníků. That year, I was just as old as my son today. In that story there were also three wolves, two seasoned, one newcomer. And I quote you a publicly available source. In this case, I apologize a little for my Czechoslovak, but let's get used to it: After přivítání a kontaktním spoločenskom konviewe boli v krednísti rozobrané rodinné pomery menovaný s cieľom overenia si vypravedí z poznamkov k family memberom menovaný z hľadiska aktualnosti. The candidate was invited to cooperate with the authorities of ŠtB. The candidate uviedol, that fully understands the need to fight against the activities of vonkayshi and the internal enemy, turned against the interests of the ČSSR. The candidate was chosen with ohľadom on the death of Súdéra Brežněv, on what is a compiled separate record. Then the candidate was invited to express himself or to cooperate with the authorities of the counter-divorce he agreed to. After expressing the consent to be notified to the Czechoslovak counter-divorce co-worker, it was submitted to him to sign the písomný zväzok, which was camouflaged in a promotional broochure. After reading, the candidate signed questions without further question and agreed that the above-mentioned cryce meno Bureš should also be used. From the next part of the file: Password for contact with another operating worker Nesiem vam materials from Bureš. I am asking Mr Sobotka if he is here, through the President, to make the most of it - is there any moral chance that someone is going to make it to us somewhere? And please, where? It was said here that this is all a fairy tale and that we should wait until the court decides. I say let Mr. Babiš wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u74	And now to bring down the actual notes. First point of fact, Mr President of the KSČM, Mr Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u75	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. We heard recently, I think it was the last weekend, that the ODS would be different, better, new. We see that it will not be, if even the new, young faces of the ODS fight the long-fought past wars. When - and in my opinion - the fight that is taking place here, when the previous speaker himself rightly points out how paradoxical it is when even his children must have, if they want to be members of the academic senate, a clerk's certificate, even though they were born after 1989. There's a very easy way, my friends. That last call after five years, possibly ten years of the law of illustration, to hear twice that time, or three times that time, and to abolish the rendering law at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. He'll have a colleague's son after the problem. [[15.20 hours]] We will also have after the problem, say we, who are now trying to come up with something to fulfil, and now I mean us as the Chamber of Deputies, not us as a Communist club, to meet the relatively simple condition of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u76	I thank the President of the House of Deputies. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Jiří Zlatuška will prepare his colleague Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr President to tell Mr Holečka that he does not have to do much violence with these fairy tales. Members of the academic senate need not have a censure certificate. And I would like to point out that, at the time of the Topolánkův Government, when the reform was imposed on universities to change the management of universities, and at the international seminar, how the institutions should be governed, a former officer of the StB came to tell us. Not an agent, but an officer of the StB. And he was there at the invitation of Mrs Kopicová on behalf of the Government of Topolánkův.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u78	I thank my colleague Zlatušek. Now, with a factual remark, Mr. Chairman of ODS Stanjura. František Laudát will be ready, already duly logged in. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u79	I think that today's debate will clearly answer the question of whether the service and illustration laws are related. Many of you here are flamingly defending the abolition of the chandeliers. We are, of course, flamingly defending the preservation of the illustrations. And I can assure the communists that the ODS will certainly not change their view of the communists and the communist past. And it doesn't matter if they're young, older or oldest ODS members. We're not really gonna change that. I know you'd like to relativize it and have a fairy tale about the good regime. I was mayor of Opava for eight years, and we have a memorial record at the Heliodor hall on Heliodore Píka. Stop it. Stop it, we'll never be in favor of canceling the illustrations. We will not be in favour of relativizing your communist regime. And look at the lists of officers and employees of StB and add that to those officials! And I forgot about the housekeepers, the streetkeepers, the VB's Auxiliary Guard and all the others who were actively involved in the maintenance and operation of the Communist regime. So keep your number of officials! Because first comrade was the secretary general and then when comrade was president. That's what happened, and we remember, we don't forget, and we're not gonna change that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u80	Before his colleague Laudát, Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u81	Thank you for the floor. The magic of true democracy is that not only can everyone retain their opinion, but they can also defend it freely. And there's no way I want to deny it or take it from my ODS colleagues. Keep your mind on it, put it in flames. We will also retain the opinion that the years that have passed and brought new concepts such as tunneling and tunneling into even the world's languages, such as the Czech environment of the ProMoPro case and others, the Czech public has also watched, also remembers them and also gives them to its future generations. We against these villains and thieves, which took place here in the name of God knows what, such as the free market, for example, yes, it had different attributes, free enterprise, etc., also we will not stop pointing and fighting, because simply and simply because of these practices that the Communists did not bring here, and even the former ones in your ranks were not such, so the civil public could also continue. Including the education system. There could have been more money for schools, there could have been more money for sports, there could have been more money for development, anything else, if we didn't have to put up with tens and hundreds of billions here, and maybe even bigger orders to put up with, cover up, replace with more effort or cutbacks and save our stolen economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u82	Thank you. Now a colleague of František Laudát, already duly registered. Mrs Anna Putnová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u83	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would fluently follow up on my previous speaker. I think the way the dictionary was enriched in the 1990s and in the last decade of our century is a weak decoy of what the comrades have been engulfing us with the previous 40 years before November 89. I'd just like to remind you: factory workers, non-production workers and others, or workers, peasants and working intelligence, etc., etc. We'll order the wind, the rain, and I don't know where. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I mean, I don't really feel like we're discussing the law here today, the service law, but really the indirect amendment and the paralysis of the rendering law, so I'm just going to go back to this issue again. Most of the opposition parties' reservations have already been raised here and I will not delay you for reasons of redundancy. Some moral reasons, as well as material reasons, may be lost in a broad discussion. We insist that this state should not be run by the Aesthebians. Let me remind you of the quote by Margaret Thatcherová, who once spoke, even if it was for one war: Unpunished evil breeds another evil. And in Czech conditions, I think this has been confirmed to a degree. The evil of the era of real socialism has not been punished. The main protagonists of November 89 mistakenly believed that left-wing utopias of all shades, including the extreme, were the past. They forgave the victims without asking for their opinion. There is a law on the unlawfulness of the Communist regime. I regret that today there is an arithmetic majority in the House, which will not mind the fact that we will be ruled by the worst ministers of the pre-November regime. The second point relates to the plane quite factual. The Lustration Law was not only about the conscience of those who served in a way that was particularly reprehensible to the pre-November regime. It also has practical implications. And that's called blackmail. If, in December 1989, January, February, March, maybe April, not quite remembering it, tons of State Security documents weren't burning, they didn't mysteriously disappear into the funds created, special, and the materials weren't lost when the archives moved, it might have been quite objectively possible to determine whether anyone was really guilty or not. However, this is not possible for the reasons set out above. No one today can say what the cause is, when the person is politically interesting or exposed, someone pulls out, or worse, and tries to push him into the decision he wants. I regret that two sides of the coalition and political parties, which I otherwise appreciate very much and have the word democratic in their name, are playing with this fire. You can see for yourself that no one is immune. We can say that unlike Ukraine, where there is blood today, there is nothing similar with us that some part of society will run out of patience, it cannot happen. But no one is a prophet. Nor will it stand up to me that voters have elected to the Chamber of Deputies and that who they sent here is the highest force. If there's a scandal after all that's happening, the voter will say, "But we didn't know that! Your responsibility will fall on you again. I don't see why there's a categorization here before the government comes. One of the Minister's candidates will be in big trouble because at some stage he either didn't get it or interrupted his application for clearance, while the other person will probably go through everything. It's your problem, I think, the future coalition. Anything you do can be called into question even if you make a fair decision. [[There's a lot of restlessness in the room.]] We took the day off yesterday for the meeting of the MP's club to give you time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u84	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I'm going to ask my colleagues in the left corner to move their debates outside the meeting room. I don't want to name it individually, but I'd like it to be quiet here to present the person who's being asked to speak. Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u85	We gave you the opportunity to reconsider the situation, and we wanted to protect you, in a way, from completely embarrassingly accepting what you are about to accept at the end of the anniversary of the so-called Palachův Week. Another opposition party did the same thing this morning. As I hear from the machine guns, it doesn't come with success. However, I offer one final solution so that we have a clear conscience that we have exhausted virtually all possibilities except for special-purpose obstructions. That is why I am now making a proposal in the light of Rusnokův's Government's position on what you have put forward here today, which I would like to put to the vote immediately, a procedural proposal to suspend this item until it comes to the House and we are able to address the proposal that Rusnokův's government has discussed with a positive result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u86	I thank Mr Laudát. But, of course, I will vote on his procedural proposal, but before the vote, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák came forward. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u87	Yes, thank you for your word. First of all, I would ask if you would like to go on, because this was not the case in past votes, and some of the colleagues who wanted to vote could not be present. Secondly, I would like to propose an amendment to this procedural proposal that we interrupt this meeting for 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u88	Now, Mr President, I don't understand if you want me to vote on a 15-minute suspension, whether it's a procedural proposal as such, or whether you're asking for a recess for a club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u89	I assume that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an amendment can be tabled on the proposal that has been tabled. My colleague, Mr Laudát, has proposed an interruption for some time, and I have put an amendment to this for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u90	Yes, thank you. So you have not exercised your right, which gives you the Rules of Procedure as president of the club, but you are giving an amendment to the proposal to Mr Laudát's procedural colleague. Okay. First of all, I will vote on the amendment by my colleague, Roman Sklenák, to suspend the negotiations for 15 minutes. I gonged. I'll have you all checked out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide to suspend for 15 minutes in the vote order number 23 as soon as the number of Members present in the Chamber is settled. It doesn't seem to be growing any more. I've started the number 23 vote, and I'm asking who's up for a 15-minute interruption. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 23 from 147 for 40, against 53. The motion was not accepted. We will be voting on the proposal by Mr František Laudát, in the vote order number 24, now I ask my colleague František Laudát to listen to me well that we interrupt this item until the submission of the Government Bill on Civil Service. I have begun the vote on order number 24 and I ask who is in favour of the procedural proposal by František Laudát. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 24 of the present 159 for 35, against 85. Nor has this procedural proposal been adopted. That's why we'll continue. I'm just gonna ask. Did my colleague Pavel Ploc make a point of fact? No. Thank you. So, Mrs Anna Putnová, duly applied for. Mrs Věra Jourová will be ready. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] I'll ask for peace in the hall! Indeed, my dear fellow Members, if you wish to discuss something with the Prime Minister, please move this debate outside the Chamber! Move the other debates outside the Chamber, so that Mrs Anna Putnová can speak properly in the debate that is open. Thank you. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. During yesterday and today, we listened to a number of reasons, hidden reasons, and those formally declared reasons for calling this extraordinary meeting. I would like to draw your attention to some aspects that have not been mentioned here. Let me sum up the data. The amendment under discussion came to the government's assessment in the demise of Prime Minister Rusnok. In the words of Prime Minister Rusnok: "In addition to the right production function, we have included an extraordinary government act to assess this service law and find it to be a law that does not comply with it. " After all, two members of the government and at the same time two members of the government coalition are present and can certainly confirm this position. We have prepared this inconvenient law for discussion and the emerging coalition is ready to push it through the legislative process. At the same time, it admits that it will require such fundamental changes that expert groups are prepared, which will and will only begin to work on its final form. At this point, we can say that this novel is a Trojan horse that we are pushing into the next reading. None of us, and I fear from the coalition's members, actually know what this Trojan horse will contain inside. I have also talked about the fact that there are still some other aspects of this extraordinary meeting that I would like to mention. We approved yesterday and sent an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to the Committees. We have promised ourselves that this amendment will bring about a more transparent discussion and, as a result, an improved legislative process. Ironically, at the same meeting, we are discussing a law that we can call Lex Babiš, and I call it a Trojan horse, all under the pretext of proving and convincing the public that we want to speed up and improve legal processes. I think that this extraordinary meeting will come into the chronicle of this parliamentary term not only because it has been particularly convened, but also because of the special combination that shows that any good intention that has been supported all along by a number of young idealistic people, voters, can be completely destroyed through purposefulness. [[15.40 hours]] It is likely that this amendment will be moved to committee meetings, and it is likely that the emerging coalition will celebrate victory in this regard. But there are other victories in history. And I believe that this victory in terms of parliamentary democracy and in terms of improving the process is Pyrrhův's victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u92	Thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová. The words will be taken by Mrs Věra Jourová, and a colleague Martin Komárek will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, whatever they call this law, I call it a draft service law. A law that has not fallen from heaven, which is valid, which we are amending, which has been said for a long time that this republic needs it. I think it is important to stress that this law needs the Czech Republic not because it wants Brusel to do so, because the law is supposed to bring some essential things for our government and for the quality of the company's functioning. It's supposed to bring stability, it's supposed to bring performance, the quality of the administration's performance, and also, and sometimes it's forgotten, continuity. It is not possible for every political guarantee exchange to take place through a fundamental exchange of administration at ministries and state organisations. I will not be drawn into the continuation of the debate on the procedural circumstances of the adoption of this law, virtually. his proposal to release the next reading. I'm not going to be drawn into the debate about the illustration, because I think we should be able to focus on the material here today, on the service law, as it is designed. And I ask everyone to think for a moment about the fact that there is a large group of people who want to bring to the next reading an amendment that will be acceptable to practice and that will meet the criteria of a good service law as part of their further work on this proposal. I will return to the procedural aspect by closing my speech. I think that the YES movement should, at this point in time, convey to me what our proposals are, which will be discussed during the legislative process, what our philosophy is. First of all, we don't want to look back, we don't want to deal with things about the illustrations. We want to work and we want to solve a problem that is a poorly functioning government. Working on an amendment that takes place on the coalition's ground plan, i.e. with colleagues from social democracy and KDU, we are talking about several models that work in Europe. The YES movement tends to the model as it works in Germany, i.e. that a strong administration is to be created within the state administration at the ministries specifically headed by the Secretary of State, who will be the first among the equals if he stands next to the Vice-Presidents. [[Noise in the hall.]] I know that these things are most fascinating to the media and some politicians, so only very briefly to see how the essential figures that we are actually installing with the service law will work according to our proposal. We believe that the very good analogy that we can use from our legal order is the one mentioned here by President Stanjura, namely the law on municipalities and the law on regions. It's something that's worked here for years. Let me introduce the analogy. The mayor is head of the administration and head of the office, but there he has a secretary who is in employment relations and organizational matters superior to the staff of the office. The Mayor directs self-governing matters directly or within a collective body such as the Board and the Council, and the Secretary directs the Office. We also want to bring this analogy to the level of the ministries and other institutions to which the service law is to come. I don't want to go into any more details right now. But I think it's a good thing that we're looking into our legal order and into practice, that is, things that work. The Minister should not interfere with administrative decisions. There will be a state secretary there, for example. It was intended to end the withdrawal under the State-government decision-making regime. As for other essential things in the law - and there are a number of them there, some of them at all. media speaking is not precisely because we are fascinated by what persons and occupations will play a role in the Service Act - so I would like to talk about a very fundamental thing, which is the personal scope of the law, i.e. I don't know who he's gonna catch. For some time there was a possibility that it would only fall to the Ministry, which would be 17,000 state employees. We believe - and we are working in this direction in an expert group - that this should be the case for a state-established organisation to which the definition of public service can be applied. This definition will be contained in the law. I think this is going to be the crossroads or the fixed point that we can move the state administration in the sense that by defining what a state service is, we're going to look at state-established organizations and we can do an inventory that they have and do not have the right to exist again under the head of state. It may bother you some already that it is too technical, but I firmly believe that you will notice that we really want to do inventory on the basis of a solid criterion, what a state service is and what a state service is supposed to be. So that's personal scope. There is an essential area of education. It was never here that qualifications were laid down for the functions and positions of the state administration and that specific officials were educated in these assumptions. But also that, on the basis of these assumptions, auditions should be conducted to select people in office. Now I'm gonna say one unpleasant thing to myself. Now maybe you'll notice. I have established myself as an expert on regional development for many years. I've been working in different positions, and I can tell you that I've rarely been asked what I know about regional development. They tried me in English, they tried me out to see if I had time to function. I also had sexist auditions when my husband asked me what to say. However, I have never been asked for professional questions in the field of European regional development funds, etc. I had to ask for those because I dare say I know the material. I think that if this is applied to the entire state administration, it is wrong and it is necessary to introduce practice here to establish people in the leading positions and to get into these positions through their expertise. So education should be a sign of the qualification of accredited education programmes at universities. We should not allow there any wild provision of educational and various obscure educational events often for civil servants. It should be a controlled process and the criteria for testing for officials should be clearly established here. Rewards. A completely sensitive and sharply monitored area to be dealt with by the law. We will be looking for a system of remuneration so that quality and educated people are motivated to go to the government, so that the remuneration system is not abused on some uneven remuneration of civil servants and at the same time that we are able to reward the most capable. That means, yes, I consider it the most sensitive and perhaps the most demanding part of the service law. We're counting on a transitional period. For the time being, we are talking about two years when a clerk in the leading positions should go through the tender procedures. This means the argument that by approving the Service Act, respectively. We fix the state that's there now is odd by putting it into effect. We will also want the Deputys who will now take up their positions to undergo tender procedures. So we're not counting on an automatic flip. Personally, if I become a secretary, my future Deputy Secretary, whom I have chosen and dealt with, I am clearly pointing that out. I believe that's what colleagues do. During that transitional period, therefore, bankruptcy will take place and there will also be examination of officials whether they are qualified to perform their work. [[15.50 hours]] Now, about what we're talking about primarily today, and this is about procedural circumstances. We are aware that such a fundamental law, and I will use that term to try to push through as a parliamentary proposal, is very courageous, but please let us consider the aspect of time. We need the law to be fully effective at 1. 1. 2015, and if we let the law be prepared for the government, for the one that comes along, we would have gotten into a slip, and we certainly wouldn't have succeeded in this goal. When I consulted with the MPSV experts about the Service Act, I was told that this law would require further four months of preparation within the Ministry. That was the information I was dealing with in December, so I'm surprised that Rusnokův's government actually put the law into discussion, virtually. approved. It was a surprise, and I think we should pause over it. The Service Act will require a very broad public and professional discussion. There's going to be a seminar tomorrow on the Board of Constitutional Law. We would very much want the opposition to be involved in the preparation of the Service Act. We would like to initiate the creation of a working group on the floor plan of the House, so that all parties nominate their experts, and, of course, we must bring all the institutions concerned into the debate, such ministries and state-based organisations. We are looking at this huge work not only in the field of legislative preparation, but especially in the field of communication and explanation. So we are aware of this, we are taking on this huge responsibility as a three-wheeler, but I repeat, we consider it essential that the law comes into effect as soon as possible and that the start of that transitional period, when the quality of government will gradually change, and I hope for the better. Ladies and gentlemen, last comment on the time aspect and the procedural issues of the law, why are we doing this on such short notice? I think if we don't do it soon, they won't say it right away, it's going to be very hard. I think that the service law represents, above all, a significant degree of self-limitation of political Garniture and the handover of a relatively large authority to the government, which is to be stable, quality, incorruptible. I deliberately don't say independent. In this I agree with Mr Kalousek from yesterday's television debate that independence cannot be achieved. We cannot achieve absolute government without taste and odour. There will always be the political direction that the government will bring. I said it was gonna be the last, but there's just one more thing. Personally, I have an inspiration for working on a service law from Great Britain, where I did a lot of internship during the time I worked as a secretary at the City Office in Třebíč. I was very surprised and surprised, and I wanted to absorb this, that in the UK, the offices where I worked during my internship, politicians, i.e. elected representatives, operated on terms such as strategy, visions, principles, criteria. In our country, politicians operate terms of individual project approval, exception, push through some incentives etc. We simply have a constant tendency for politicians to engage in the decision-making of officials who are to drive according to the set notes and are to do so actually neutrally. And that is what bothers the European Commission and why it sounds the alarm and wants the approval of the Service Act to be separated and to set out strategies and criteria for European funds, and then the administration itself is up to officials who have no political interests and who only manage reliably. I have not forgiven this conclusion of my speech, although I have said to myself that I am constantly talking about European funds, that I can no longer act as a fachidiot who knows nothing else, but I think that even the question of Brusel pressure or the reason for the pressure of Brusel on us to make a service law is precisely this, that the Structural Funds should be managed by impartial and good state administration. [[have]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Věra Jourová. Mr Martin Komárek will take the floor, prepare... Sorry, Comrade Komárek will wait. With a point of fact, Mr. Chairman? [[Yes.]] Thus, with a factual remark, Mr Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could respond to a lot of things, but in order not to make the most of it, I will just make one point and return to my example yesterday, which I understand was understandable for most of you. Mrs Jourová wants us to focus on what the engine volume of individual cars is, but we are supposed to be dealing with traffic regulations here. These are important for people's safety, they are important for us to go somewhere. So at this point, we refuse to focus solely on the material, as you said, but we will recall the political contexts that are dangerous to political culture in this matter. We will be happy to talk to you about the Service Act, but only when it is clear that the purpose of the debate is not only for one particular person to enter the government. You can't ask us to do this right now. What you are now presenting, and in the form in which you present it, and in the time in which you present it, has one simple objective: to bring Mr Babiš into the government and to fulfil Mr President's absurd condition. There's nothing else to it, and we're gonna remind it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u96	Thank you for keeping time. Now properly logged in... Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. With a point of fact, Mr President, or with priority rights? Okay, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u97	Mrs Jourová here criticized that politicians use the exception in their vocabulary. I agree, we shouldn't use it. But all yesterday and today is because you need to make an exception for your boss, as you say. You don't even say chairman. For your boss. So we are gathered to make an exception, and then you are simultaneously criticizing, through Mr President, that someone else is saying an exception. And don't judge us on your terms! A moment ago, the President of the Civil Democratic Party stood here. Tell us how many officials he replaced when he came to the Ministry of Education, and how many party nominees and his friends he brought there! Tell me when I was at the Department of Transport, how many officials I traded and how many I brought there either party or personal friends! You know, the general kind... You were saying, did I get it right, that some HR agency was gonna be picking out your deputy?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u98	Mr President, please, through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u99	Through Mr President, I am very sorry. I didn't mean anything wrong. The proposal for a working group is really hypocritical. He would have been seriously meant if it had been before we could file a bill of parliament together. I understand that. And I think we'd be part of it. But we're pretending to be discussing something today, especially you, you tried to distract us by going here: detail, detail, detail, and at the same time we heard here yesterday and today that there is an expert coalition group, which I understand, which is already rewriting. But from now on, we will be running out of time to discuss the draft law in committees and when we need to deal with it again in plenary at the latest. And we don't know when your expert group... So if you're serious about this, then you and I are gonna deny it, let's form a working group. If we agree, there may be a joint parliamentary proposal in that working group, or a government proposal will come through the committees that we will be putting on - we do not know what we are going to lead to, what is true and what is not true of what we have on our computers. [[16.00 hours]] And if you've noticed, we've rejected Rusnokův's government proposal equally forcefully. It's not like we chose one of those two and we're talking about one, it's great that in three days it'll be possible to discuss. That's wrong. I agree that there has not been a proper legislative process in either case or in the other case, but you are criticizing the Rusnokův administration's case and defending your material. So either you're serious about offering some kind of cooperation with the opposition, then it makes sense before filing a proposal, and not when you agree, and then you invite us to either acknowledge it or comment. We want to see the material, and then we can work together on it. This isn't really going to work, and I'm evaluating it, or we're assessing it as a hypocritical offer. We're not gonna take part in these work commissions. In the same way, you decided that there would be no committee for the work of the Chamber of Deputies. Legitimate decision of the majority, in order to receive a letter from one of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies, that, given that we have decided to abolish the commission, he is setting up his advisory body to announce by then and then the ODS nominee. That's not really how it works. That's another example of the hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u100	Thank you. I will ask my colleague Komárek to be patient because I have two factual points - first a colleague, Daniel Korte, and a Member, Mr Jiří Zlatuška, will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Jourová spoke here as a book, but it still seems to me like a horse for a car, for a simple reason. The city of Tokyo has nearly 20 million inhabitants, which is managed by 50,000 officials. The Czech Republic has 10 million inhabitants and we have half a million civil servants. I believe that any consideration of a possible service law, a civil service law, should begin to take into account whether this ratio is adequate. I'm not suggesting reduction. There's a coalition going on today, that's her job. I wish you well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u102	Thank you, Mr Korte. With a factual remark, Mr Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u103	I would not have done so if Mr Stanjura had not asked a direct question. So, Mr President, I would like to ask you to answer Mr Stanjur. At the time that the current ODS chairman was at the Ministry of Education, those officials who were taken without a tender - just look at those who left with him, especially the first Deputy Nantl, a failed student, without a tender. This is an example of occupied posts that should not be covered by the Service Act. You asked, you have an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u104	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. Without being able to influence the answer, it came on its own. With a factual remark, Mr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond directly to Mr Zlatuška through you. There was the name of Jiří Nantl, who can't defend himself. Jiří Nantl was deputy at the Ministry of Education at the time I joined, and I left him in that position. He's not a failed student, I knew him as my student, and I'm glad that my students are successful even in the state administration, and that other politicians have chosen them into positions as responsible as the Deputys. I wouldn't be in my defense, but it seemed incorrect to Mr Nantl, which is why I called in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u106	I thank Mr Fial. Mr Stanjura withdraws his request for a factual comment. With a factual remark, Mr Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u107	I would just say that at the moment when such a thing is prepared with a slight advance, it may then appear that Mr. Nantl was already there. In that case, I will take another example from Prime Minister Nečas's work. For about two years, the Research Group of the Unity of Czech Mathematicians and Physicists bombarded all the ministers' questions as to how it is possible that the positions in the Government's Research, Development and Innovation Council were occupied partly in violation of the law. The law says no more than two terms of office, there is one person in the Bureau today, who is the third term, the second member, the executive vice-chairman, even the fifth term. This is a violation of the law, which on the one hand doesn't matter, on the other hand, there are alleged things that are more than 25 years old and that are supposed to matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u108	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. I have no further factual point here, and I will ask Mr Komárek, duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not standing here to torture the rapporteur, who actually feels sad about this speech. Maybe he's not alone, 'cause we get off the subject a lot. I am a little unhappy that several speakers have been wedged between Mrs Jourová and me. It was a very interesting debate about the Ministry of Education, but I wanted to follow up on its material content a little bit. But on the other hand. I didn't want to perform at all today, if a few people didn't ask me during the negotiations that she had accepted some distorted interpretation of this hearing, which we are hearing repeatedly. She not only repeats the lie becomes true, but repeated distortions become the way it spreads - I will not criticize the media, don't ask me to - but it spreads here and it becomes a kind of truth. So I take the opposition's objections, the future opposition, because there is a future coalition, future opposition, future ministers, etc., I take the objection very seriously, and I do not think that the opposition and the coalition in such a small country, where the immortality of the horn is not decided, but only that people should be able to have a good place here, if possible, to be the normal country that President Václav Havel wanted us to be, that the opposition and the coalition should not fight so furiously. So I'm also not happy that the House is responding to President Miloš Zeman's parole. I am convinced that we are parliamentary democracy, and the President has the powers that result from the spirit of the Constitution. But we have the condition, and as they say, "Here's Rhodes, here's the jump." I'm not gonna say it in Latin so I don't play smart, but we can get rid of that condition how? We have the opportunity, together with the Senate, to limit the powers of the President, to force him to appoint a government and, thank God, or, unfortunately, from the right or the left or the center, it's the only possible government that makes sense after the election. So we can go into a confrontation with President Zeman, we can try to humiliate him in some way. The second option, and I'm not saying it's ideal to comply with this condition. And if we're comfortable with it, we can just approve or prepare the laws that people really want us to do. I am absolutely sure that the service law or contract register law is in the interests of the voters. And not only in the interests of the Yes voters who asked for it at all the meetings. It's in the interests of the citizens of this country. Please, let's wait for Mr. President to lay down the conditions of the sovereign House, and I am making this announcement, but let's do what we're doing and what Věra Jourová summarizes in a matter of fact: let's work on the service law and others. There are many ways to adjust them within the extended period to make them really functional. And let's not underestimate ourselves that we can't make a good law in three months. We have to do these laws to correct the bad functioning of this country, many more. So if it's a thoughtful rush and work is quick, but it's valid, that's good. So let's stop ideologying, let's just have a little fun, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u110	Mr. President of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u111	Thank you. Sorry to keep you, but really just for a little while. I wanted to help Mr. Komárek a little, because he was here trying to say in a matter of fact and honestly what are the alternatives to the President's parole. But I think you've forgotten the third one, and it would take a complete list. The third option is that the government coalition will only propose to the President of the Republic those candidates for ministers who will be able to present a negative illustration certificate. It's been like this for 24 years. Then there are no such conditions, there is no problem, and the next day we could be dealing with real work here, not the problem of a former State Security agent. That's really something new. So please, colleagues, I am not allowed to speak to you of course, but try to think about it and think about it and say, "We, the YES movement, will try to suggest only those who can submit a pure illustration certificate to the government. That is the third option, Mr. Ambassador, and it should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u112	With a point of fact, Mr Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u113	Please, I will repeat today and, through the President, I would like to see Mr Kalousek. Where does he get the right to prejudice a court decision? And where does he get the right to say "Aestebak and Finance Minister"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u114	Mr Gabal, with another factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u115	I'm sorry to refresh my colleague Kalousek memory. I'll remind you of the name of Jan Kavan. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Jan Kavan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u116	If there is no other - the de facto remark of Mr Kalousek's President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u117	I think it's a good reminder and it's connected with the same name: Miloš Zeman. [[Let's hear it for a few Members.]] I spoke again about the condition, and I will refresh Mr Volný that if it were said: We, the YES movement, will only present such nominations to government members who may have a negative illustration certificate, as is customary in this country and in this democracy, then there would not be such a problem. That's just the third condition. I wanted to help Mr Komárek, because he said only two variants, and this is undoubtedly the passable option of the third.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u118	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Zavadil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u119	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, Mr Demission, or the rest of the delegation government, colleagues and colleagues. You know, when I listen to some numbers, because numbers are my field, I get a little adrenaline up. Here it says 500,000 that there are actually officials who run this state. The first stage of stupidity is ignorance. And I, through Mr President, would like to correct Mr Korte's ignorance in the sense that I would give him precise figures. There's about 75,000 of those officials, 18,000 of them in state bodies, and all the others in the 500,000 roughly, these are firemen, they're cops, they're customs, they're non-educational workers, they're educational workers, they're health workers, they're workers... and now I can't think of who else. So just so we're clear, when we use numbers, let's use them, please, exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u120	Thank you. With another factual remark by Mrs Válková, Mr Korte will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u121	I would just like to respond to the third version that Mr Kalousek presented earlier. There is also another interpretation of the law that allows interpretation of the relevant provision of the rendering law so that it does not apply to ministers. Objectively speaking, most of our experts agree on the opposite interpretation, which means that the rendering law also applies to ministers with regard to the administrative procedures that may run at the relevant ministries. This, too, is dealt with by the future legislation that is now under discussion. However, in this respect, the legal interpretation is probably not the essential one, but rather the political one. And I can't help but think that we're getting more and more different from a material debate to a different political invektiv exchange. I would just like to ask Mr Kalousek to really remember the vote on the Law in 2002, I believe that it was in the spring, I also found a stenograph, and the House press 794, and the entire KDU-ČSL headed with him then voted in favour of the amendment law accordingly, i.e. voted in favour. So now the deviation from the original position expressed by the vote seems very significant to me. So, even in this regard, politics seems to play a greater role than it seems at first sight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u122	Thank you, Madame Válková. Mr Stanjura, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u123	So one thing is a legal opinion and I agree that there can be different legal opinions about everything. I think that especially those who are professionals in legislation and in law know that the important thing is also how we proceed, what legal practices are. All ministers of all governments in the Czech Republic submitted a negative illustration certificate. And maybe someone else has a legal opinion. But you're changing the established legal practice. Nothing more, nothing less. And you're saying someone has a different legal opinion. The practice was very simple. The moment I was proposed to the government, I got a call - not the Prime Minister, not the party chairman - from the Office of the President of the Republic and they said, "Tomorrow, in order to arrive at the Castle at 3:00 p.m., you have to deliver this, this, this, and also a negative illustration certificate by 10:00 p.m. today. And since I was in Opava and not in Prague, I had it dealt with, and I brought it there so I could make it happen. Nobody was debating it, it was normal, it was obvious. It doesn't suit you, so say it - everyone did, but someone has a legal opinion that everyone did it wrong and they didn't have to have it. Otherwise, you really change legal habits. And it's pretty smiling how you're trying to cloud this, sneak up on it, talk about something completely different here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u124	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Korte. Mr Schwarz will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to respond to my colleague Zavadil. Thank you for the lesson I have learned. I'm very pleased to find that someone in this room is listening to what they say. But the problem is, he only hears what he wants to hear. I didn't say we had 500,000 officials. I said there are 500,000 civil servants here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u126	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Schwarz, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u127	I was still looking at my watch. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I have to ask in fact. I beg you, and what was the clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's clerk's They dragged her there that these doctors sitting here, or cops exes like me, or billionaires, as some say, had to go into politics, had to make a movement, and voters gave them a vote. I'm sorry, but I'm seriously asking what it was for these ministers. What have they done so revolutionary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u128	With another factual remark, Mr Chalupa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm a member of the YES movement, and I'm not an employee of Agrofert, as I've been listening to this place for two months. So please, I'm not an employee of Agrofert, I'm an ANO member of the movement, and there's ten million citizens out there looking at what we're doing here. That's one. [[16.20 hours]] Two. Since I've worked as a civil servant for about ten years in a pretty high government office, the law needs to be passed. The professionalism of civil servants needs to be strengthened, and so do citizens. And the third thing: illustration. We all know that tens of thousands of volumes have been burned here. Maybe Mr. Mrázek had some ties that were relevant somewhere. What is available and how you judge who was an agent and who wasn't is completely irrelevant. How do you judge that? Plus, the court really didn't decide, so please avoid it, there's some presumption of innocence. And one last thing. There's always talk of State Security. The people who did it, they're taking pensions today. Is that okay with you? There was some military counterintelligence, talking about people who snitched in the military and did bad. The real bad guys are already wiped out, and we don't even know they're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u131	You can throw whatever you want, I'll check in anyway. I didn't talk about agents or any unions, I was talking about customs and all the time the Czech Republic was required for all requests for ministerial office. So criticize if you criticize me, what I said, not what you heard. Not a word. I was talking about a negative illustration certificate, I wasn't talking about whether or not one of the MPs was an agent. It's not for me or you to decide, it's for a trial. However, there are clear customs here, and you say: we will not abide by this law. If that's what you think you're going to improve in the Czech Republic, I'm saying you won't. If you want to change the law, change it, if you want to toughen it up, and you want to include military counterintelligence officers, we can agree on that. We're just pointing out that the law applies, there are some customs. The interpretation has been exactly the same for more than 20 years for all governments, for all ministers. Nothing more, nothing less. And if we want to change that, it's legitimate, but the law has to change first, and then it can be done differently. Not because it doesn't suit me. It doesn't work today because someone has made a condition, and next time it may be something completely different with the same reason: We've won voters' votes, no one is questioning that, so our boss doesn't have to pay the law. Well, that's wrong!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u132	With another factual remark, Mr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Chalupa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u133	Mr President, I really must respond to Mr Schwarz's words and I would like to say the following to him through you. I would not dare, therefore, either in governments or in governments that I did not like, to evaluate the activities of all ministers on a flat-rate basis. That's really defensive. But I wanted to tell you the important thing. I don't know what the motives were for you going into politics. I don't know what the motives of the YES movement were. But when I'm watching you here, I think the one motive is clear. And that's for Mr. Babiš to take over the Treasury. That's what you're acting like!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u134	prosit, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We're not here to defend Mr. Babiš. We're here because we offered something to citizens, those citizens elected us, and you're talking about some sort of order and established stuff that you've been doing here for 20 years. Be aware that this is probably going to be over for twenty years or twenty-four years, and now we're going to do it based on what the voters gave us and what they gave us their mandate for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. With another factual remark, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u137	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr Schwarz here has said what they want. You should be ashamed of yourself and apologize to those people who were in jail, their careers were ruined! Where do you even get the audacity to say that through Mr President? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u138	With another factual remark, Mrs Němcová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u139	I'm also going to give a hint to my colleague Schwarz. Because when he asks what all these illustrations were about, for example, to make it clear that among those who control our state, those who participated in the action you can find will not be the 40-year event to rebuild our nation, which was called the Communist era. And here on Petřín, you'll find an Olbram Zoubek record that says exactly what the era meant. All right, gentlemen, 205 486 convicted, they're victims of communism. 248 executed, 4,500 died in prisons, 327 died at the border, 170 938 citizens emigrated. That's why they can't be there, so they can't be connected to what hit our country in that totally unhappy phase that ruined us - my parents' whole life, my two-thirds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u140	With another factual remark, Mr Schwarz will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u141	Well, good evening again. I know, Mr Vice-President, I know it's a waste of time, but I have to say, exactly what I said came in handy again. And I insist. For you, too, through Vice-President Mrs Němcová. I asked them, I mean, at work. If that minister did a job, everyone has a conscience. And it's a shame you didn't find out that I'm not from Agrofert as a colleague. That's one thing. And that's why I'm gonna ask again. You could use what it is. I have experience, Mrs. Němcová, that from your side - Yes, by your means - that your captain really brought such a man, directed our region Ustecký that man and that did not bother you. [[The President reminds me: by means of me, please.]] I don't really care if Mr. Babiš is here or where he is. It's about this thing, what everyone here is just saying. So I only perform for the reason that people know how it really is and that everyone doesn't do it for people, only half or more for the happiness of those people is trying to do it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u142	Thank you. With another factual remark, the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayor, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u143	I will try to answer Mr Schwarz unemotionally. They were certified to comply with the law. If I borrow the example of my colleague, Fiala, if I want to drive a car, I have to have a driver's license to comply with the law. If I want to be a minister, a condition necessary but not sufficient, I agree, the condition is that I have a negative illustration certificate, because under the current law I cannot be named otherwise. You here today, in cooperation with Mr. President, will agree that this condition, although legally necessary, will cease to apply. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u144	If no one has another factual comment, then we can continue to register properly. I ask Mr Petr Bendl for his contribution. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Grebeníčk for his speech here. Not for complimenting and defending Mr. Andrej Babiš. He should be able to do that on his own, even though I haven't seen him here today. He didn't perform once, even though we're talking about him 90 percent of the time. But for what I would like to thank him for justly admitting that he's fighting the rendering law. Personally, though, I can't imagine them rehabilitating fascists or Nazis in Germany 25 years after the war. And I see no reason why we should rehabilitate people who were the engine of the communist regime before 1989. I don't see one single reason. [[16.30 hours]] Arguments that haven't yet fallen on the service bill itself. I think it is necessary that when I hear a number of people from the government or future government coalition, or already existing government coalitions, who feel that we will improve the performance of the government, if our officials are independent, I would like to draw attention to a few things. On the one hand, we can disqualify the standard political democratic duel of political parties in the future, because this is the system that we have in the Czech Republic, where individual political parties, entities and movements running for elections offer citizens their solutions to their problems and promise to deal with the country one way or another. They will be given a mandate and can then decide which way the citizens have chosen to go. They can, of course, then blame a particular policy for making some mistakes and so on. At the moment when they become a government or official absolutely independent of these, I will say, political decisions, I consider this extremely dangerous, not only in the direction - someone can say that politicians and political representation are one bunch of ugly people, but they can also become independent of the citizens themselves. They're gonna stay cocooned, and they won't have to talk to almost anyone if we make it absolute independence, and we should be aware of that. That's one point. Two. Almost every law under discussion by the Chamber of Deputies is marked by what Brussels wishes. Brussels officials impose on us and we accept and raise our hands for a number of legislative proposals adopted within the European Union. If we make a significant independent official of citizens, we will become more dependent on Brussels officials. I don't think that's a good way to go. I would warn against it, because I myself have experienced a number of debates that are absolutely lost, when Europe has imposed on us and imposed on us things that we consider to be completely redundant, restricting our country's competitiveness, making our lives difficult for nothing. At this point, if we strengthen the role of an official, we are weakening democracy in this country and putting ourselves at risk, which Brusel sometimes brings to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u146	I thank Mr Bendl. We have two factual points. Member Matěj Fichtner. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Semelová will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u147	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to say that this is a very unproductive act. I've been sitting here pretty much all morning, and we've done basically nothing. The arguments that have been raised here continue to be heard over and over again. We've heard a few notes here about how it works in Germany. Excuse me very briefly, I think I'll only make it in a minute. I looked at the German Bundestag agenda of 16 December 2011. For example, from 15.25 to 16.05 hours, the Children Act was discussed. For example, the arms bill is from 20.10 to 20.50 hours. Please compare the productivity of the work of the Czech and German Parliament. Surely we cannot accuse the German Parliament of adopting poor laws, because if that were the case, Germany would have to be somewhere on the back of Europe, which it is not. It is in front, it is one of the most economically efficient countries, practically possibly the most efficient countries after Luxembourg. So please, let's be productive and get to the point, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u148	Please, Mrs Semelová, with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u149	I would like to call on Mr Bendl through the President and ask him not to compare fascists and communists. Mr President, you insult those people, those communists who fought against fascism here, who went to a concentration camp, who were hanged and tortured. I warn you, it was the communists who were primarily in the anti-fascist resistance, that they were the ones who built this country that you robbed. That's one point. Second point. You're always talking about the rendering law as a condition for some ministers to go to the government. I think, first of all, it should be a condition of expertise, and you're just making excuses for the rendering law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u150	With a factual remark, Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u151	Two notes. I have spoken consistently about the Communist regime, about communism itself, and there are more dead than fascists and Nazis. Ad 1. Ad 2. For a colleague who has probably never been to Brussels - in the Brussels Parliament, some Members are not even allowed to speak to individual laws. It is determined in advance, who can perform, have in advance given minutes, how many can perform, etc. Is that what you want? Then say it out loud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u152	With another factual remark, Mrs Semelová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u153	Mr President, learn history!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u154	Thank you, ma'am. If there is no further factual point, I do not see one, please Mr Daniel Herman, duly registered. Mr. Jiří Koubek will be ready. Please, Mr Herman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u155	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, Vice-President Kalousek raised a question this morning addressed to me. I understand the position of the Vice-President, who is in the role of opposition politics and who is in full play. I understand that. I also thank you for recognising my work at the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. It is the first time I have heard such an assessment from the Vice-President's mouth. I appreciate it, but I would have appreciated it even more about a year ago, when I repeatedly asked Vice-President Kalousek for an audience in vain, so that I could explain to him the turbulence that prevailed around the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. Unfortunately, he didn't find time back then. From TOP 09 it was only President Schwarzenberg who commented positively on my work. Unfortunately, he was left alone on this side. I found much more support for some ODS, ČSSD politicians and, of course, my own KDU-ČSL. On his question of how I feel, I will be happy to answer Vice-President Kalousek through Mr President. I've always appreciated it when people came to me as headmaster and wanted to read their own history together. As you'd expect, I've been through a number of volumes with my hands. It's usually a pretty sad reading. In the Archive of the Security Forces is stored about 20 km of materials from the provenience of the former State Security. But based on these volumes, you can't write a person's résumé. It is only when the person in question opens his life to you and tells you his experience of how the former communist regime broke spines and characters, that the entire mosaic of life begins to compose. I myself have experienced aesthebacus threats, border guards investigations under a machine gun or a military counterintelligence gun. It was very unpleasant. And I'm grateful I didn't get into any harder situations than I could handle. I'm certainly not in favour of some fat lines behind the past, but I also like an Indian proverb that says, "Don't comment on the other's path until you walk a certain number of miles in his moccasins." I consider the Lustration Act to be an important element of our rule of law, which is designed to prevent former members and the knowledge of secret co-workers of the State Security, as well as senior officials of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, from working in the management functions of our country. As a KDU-ČSL club, we have made it clear that the rendering law is untouchable for us, and we will not raise our hand for its abolition. Our three-coal engagement aims, among other things, to maintain values such as decency, ethics and morality in politics, that is the values that stand above all budgetary measures or financial flows. [[16.40 hours]] I don't want to comment on things I'm not aware of yet. I therefore welcome the opportunity to have a personal conversation with President Babiš. I don't know what I'm going to learn at this point in our conversation, but based on my experience so far, I can say that when someone is willing to talk about their past, it's always been a good signal. Major problems were mostly hidden where this willingness was not. The diversity of political views must not hinder human communication and seek to understand one another. Although we don't have to agree on everything. By constant attacks and by mutual ensnarment, the ditches that have led political culture in our country to the collapse of government and early elections only deepen. Election results have shown how people think, and it is up to us, fellow Members and colleagues, to work responsibly with these results. If we do, he'll show the future. I will do everything in my power to make the political climate in our country more welcoming and to make it possible to add forces for the benefit of the people who elected us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u156	I thank Mr Herman. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u157	I would like to thank Mr Herman very much for answering my question, although I stress that I do not require that answer, because I felt that it was not possible for her to be credible and publicly available at the same time. I'm quite sorry I wasn't wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that this item be interrupted until the beginning of a proper meeting on February 4th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u158	This is a procedural proposal. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a check-out request. Mr. Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u159	As Vice-President of the Social Democracy Club, I am putting forward a counter-proposal - to interrupt for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u160	We have two suggestions here. I'll check you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am voting first on the counter-proposal to suspend our negotiations for 15 minutes, Mr Sed. Initiating vote (number 25). Who's in favour of our meeting being suspended for 15 minutes, raise your hand. Who's against it? 137 Members are registered, for 20, against 42. This proposal was rejected. We will proceed to the next vote, this is the proposal by the President of the TOP 09 and Mayor Kalousek to suspend the negotiations until 4. 2. Initiating vote (number 26). All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? 155 colleagues logged in for 31, anti 92. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Jiří Koubek is next in the order of registration. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I shall ask for peace in the Chamber and for the monitoring of the Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador, the House will calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government in demise, ladies and gentlemen, as a rookie, I also listen carefully to this debate. I am also used to working in some way, whether as mayor of the city district or in the past in other functions. And here I listen carefully to the good advice, if any, from the rapporteur, who gives us newcomers here to warn us, or to point out how it works here. Thank you. It's not that bad. I want to assure you. It is clear from the discussion that this law is a condition for the appointment of a government, or the appointment of a colleague, Mr Andrej Babiš. The negotiation of this law. There was even a quote from the President's words from December last year, quoted here by a fellow Member for the ODS, which I think everyone understood, except perhaps socially democratic Members who persistently reject the fact that an extraordinary meeting would be convened in order to obtain the support of the President for the appointment of Andrej Babiš to the Government. I must appreciate, through the President, Mr Komárek for the YES movement, which, until now, has basically been silent about this, and he was the first to admit that yes, we are meeting here today and we are negotiating so that colleague Andrej Babiš could become a minister because he has no chance of achieving a clean illustration certificate. Thank you for this honesty. I've been waiting for this all morning. I was also personally interested in the words of President KDU-ČSL Pavel Bělobrádek yesterday, let me quote: It is a condition of the President and we have two options: respect her or disrespect her. In case we don't respect her, we'll continue to be ruled by Prime Minister Rusnok's government. And if that's what we want, it needs to be realized that whoever doesn't vote in favour of the proposal at first reading of this law simply says it's better for the Rusnokův government to continue to rule here. Although there is a majority. So I think it's pretty clear. The condition is here and we have two options. Either we do it and the situation that's here goes on or we don't. So many quotes from my colleague Pavel Bělobrádek. So, supposedly, we only have two options: Rusnokův's government, or the approval of the law at first reading, even the whole coalition, or at least some admit that the law is so bad that it will have to be reworked throughout the wide range. I would like to ask one rhetorical question: the emerging government majority, and where do you know for sure now, at this point, that this is the condition of the first and last? Today, Mr. President invites individual candidates to his place, and as I had the opportunity to look at news servers a little while ago, Mr. Andrej Babiš said to the media: Mr. President is stubborn, Stropnickýý still doesn't want. Where do you know that when the President finishes his round with the ministers' candidates, he's not going to lay down any new conditions? Maybe he won't say he still wants somebody to bring him fresh strawberries in January. Or to have the government coalition dance a little bit, as was also said here yesterday. We will see again that the chairman of the coalition party, Pavel Bělobrádek, comes out and shrugs his shoulders from this place and says, "Well, if the President wants it, we will just fulfill the condition"? I would like to point out that you have gotten yourself into this mess. The situation for two options, either Rusnokův's government, or the approval of the law at first reading, the Service Act at first reading, was invented by you, the esteemed emerging coalition. You've narrowed your own maneuvering space. Those variations aren't really just two, and as they've been coming out of the mouth of my previous speakers, and I'm sorry to repeat myself, but I've been writing it since last night, so I'm not talking here on the basis that I'm copying from someone, but at least that proves what a common mood is. There is also the third option, and it is such that you will appoint honored candidates, such as colleague Daniel Herman, who are simply able to prove themselves to be a negative illustration certificate. It's very simple. [[16.50 hours]] If you would do so, in my opinion, you can answer this completely illogical and unrelated condition of the President politely and strongly, and we will not fulfil this condition. And this bill, which you are unable to identify with in this form, as you present it, you can download, prepare a new, better version right from the very beginning, and you can present a variant with which at least the government majority will be able to identify. You can't do that today. And it should be noted that everyone makes money off of it. Citizens will get the government they asked for in the election. Social democracy will have its prime minister. KDU-ČSL members who have suffered a lot under the previous regime will not have to twist their spine today. The President will have no room to make up unrelated terms, or those conditions will be as stupid as the strawberries, for example, and he will finally be able to fulfil the constitutional obligation that he stands before today, and that is to appoint the government of the majority of this Parliament. A small note to the productivity of the work that was said here today. I think that this is very closely related to the fact that you are now presenting a law that even you are unable to identify with yourself. The two laws that you quoted, Mr President, if I am not mistaken, from the German Parliament, were probably presented in such a way that no one was speaking out of the government majority and said: However, we must completely redo it. I guess that wasn't in this case. It simply came to the House with a proposal that could then be discussed and could be discussed more quickly. Dear fellow Members of the YES movement through Mr President, allow me to turn to you with this. You promised repeatedly not to lie and steal. I believe you. I have no reason not to believe you. Many of you have come with fresh wind, with your experience and you really want to help this country. I have no reason to doubt that. Please, at least be fair. If you can't be completely truthful anymore, be fair. So just admit, in summary, that you're here on this probation today, that you've called an emergency meeting for this. That, in quotation marks, you're still spewing some bills that didn't have anything to do with this. An extraordinary meeting, which, however, determines the reading of these laws or the time of discussion in the committees, is reaching out as if we could not discuss this until 4 or 5 February. For the productivity of the work that is being done here today, fellow Members of the YES movement through Mr President, you can have it all on your own. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u162	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Fichtner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u163	Thank you. I'll just make it more precise in a few seconds. What I quoted was a plan for the Bundestag's work. This means that there is always an advance time for the law for debate, which, in some way, is divided between the various parliamentary factions, and then the debate is underway. The discussion is strictly limited in time. This means the argument that the law is, or is not good, has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u164	And we're back to the Rules of Procedure we discussed yesterday. However, Mr Herbert Pavera is now duly registered. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u165	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government in resignation, honourable colleagues, I too am a newcomer here, and I will not keep you long, because I just want a few observations. I don't know if service law is important or irrelevant. I am the mayor of the village of Bolatice with 4,400 inhabitants for 16 years. I worked there as a deputy mayor and a member of the board. There was no law for officials to work well, and there were ten of them in total, we didn't need them. Perhaps there must be some rules in the state administration. If we agree that the Service Act does, then of course, we will be happy to participate in this too, from TOP 09 and the starosta. But what I'm very sorry about and what I'm terribly sorry about is that I came here with some determination to work honestly here, but I have to say with disappointment that a lot of speakers that I know and I appreciate and I think are honest people here knowingly or unconsciously did not speak the truth in any way. I'm not saying they lied, but they weren't telling the truth. Because when we have to discuss the law of service quickly, it was easy to wait until September 4th, when it was a proper session of the Chamber of Deputies, and it did not have to be in extraordinary negotiations. [[meant February]] And I believe, as it has already been said, that this is for one simple reason only. I appreciate Mr. Bělobrádek and Mr. Martin Komárek for saying openly what reasons this is for. And I am worried, very worried, although I do not know such a far-reaching policy, I am seeing for the first time that the new government under the new Prime Minister will be very weak, if he already has dictated from the President the conditions under which the government will be appointed or will not be appointed. It's just information here. And then, through the Vice-President, I would just like to say to my colleague Faltýnek, who yesterday said that even thanks to the State's reconstruction, the laws are being discussed quickly, that just yesterday we received an email from the State's Reconstruction, that they are resisting the rapid negotiation of the laws, that it is not from their instigation, but that all the laws are to be properly and thoroughly prepared. And just a comment on the rendering law. Maybe some people already think he's worn out. I agree that some fish may have escaped from the list by shredding their personal files, but I think that the bill of illustration is such a respect for all those who died during the previous regime who were tortured, abused, and persecuted. And the last two just informations that are no longer relevant: I beg you, dear colleagues, you may have noticed that there are garbage bins in the foyer to sort out the waste. Let's try to sort it out, make it a little more cultural. And the very last to lighten up. I can't celebrate her birthday with my wife today because of an extraordinary meeting, so I'm here to greet her and wish her happy birthday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u166	I thank the honourable Member and the Members, too, that we wish them all the best. Another duly signed up is Mr. Mr. Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I ask for peace in the Chamber and careful listening to Mr. Zlatušek!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am also a rookie here as well as my previous colleague, but I have a certain experience from earlier, from the Senate. And here I would remind myself of what I experienced there on September 18, 2008. There Petr Nečas, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, spoke for Topolánkův's government, who promised to prepare a new law of service, thus justifying further delaying the effectiveness of the law, which is still valid, but not effective. That law, where Mr Kalousek and Mr Kalousek voted in the accompanying law to abolish the rendering law for these workers. [[17,00 hours]] If it is said that it was possible to wait until September 4th, or if we agree on it, we can discuss the service law, so I would like to remind you that even then it was said: let's wait, let's prepare it. [[February]] And there has been agreement that we are to have a service law since we joined the European Union. It was part of our conditions of accession to the European Union. When the then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, later Prime Minister of the Senate on September 18, 2008, answered me the question of why he was once again delaying my effectiveness at a time when he claimed to write a whole new law, he replied that it was all because of the European Union, because we would be punished for it because we promised. So the consensus that we need a service law, there it was, there it is, we need it, and we need it so that our public administration is of good quality. I believe that this emphasis is not even a matter that would in any way justify bringing up in connection with the law of illustration or the assessment of risk through the law of illustration. The Lustration Act was adopted in the early 1990s because other instruments were not available. Today, we are in a situation that, according to this approach, a member of the government or a top civil servant must have an illustration certificate and an honest statement that relates to the ancient past, a past that is more than 24 years old, a past that is longer from us than the entire first Republic, but does not have to have security capability under another law, under the Secret Facts Act, because everything here is just fictitious threats past, not real threats arising from security risks. When we look at Law No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and security competence, so in Section 14, we will find security reliability, where it is said that the condition of security reliability is met by a natural person who is not identified as a security risk and in the security risk is met in paragraph 2. 3 also says: (a) inclusion in the former State Security with intelligence or counter-intelligence, etc. So it is not true that, at the moment when we do not apply the rendering law under the new service law, we do not have the tools to ensure this. The only difference is that what falls under the rendering law in the past does not necessarily always have to be a security risk when it is individualized under this law, because unlike the 1991 law, this is an individual assessment of the case. Safety risks are identified individually in the relevant deadlines and, among other things, they need to be identified when sending our representatives to NATO authorities. Even a person who does not have a demonstration certificate and an honest statement, or has a negative statement, may not be a safety risk and may be safe in the present. And this is a situation that is now in force according to the current legal situation. We have the tools to do this, and it's not true that we're going to cancel them with this. The debate that is going on around the application of the parameters of pure record for the competence of top civil servants, and I do not think that it is a matter of any of the current ministers, I think it is just a coincidence of certain statements that have fallen to the public, but that we primarily want the law of service to apply, so the debate that is going on, the assumptions that are more or less political, populist, reminds me of the old debate that took place at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries in connection with the so-called Hilsnerias. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk was then confronted with the application of prejudices that people were very clear about. They knew who the Žid was, who was kind of pumping the blood of poor virgins. There was an interesting debate that took place between students and Tomáš Masaryk. It reminds me very much of the arguments, pseudoarguments and, more or less, just the media clichés that are being used today. Masaryk's student, as it happens to be called Fiala, but he is not the one we have here in the House, saying: "In such a moving time, when the nation must stand close against the enemy government, he wants to split up the entire nation for one Žid and weaken him so. He works in the hands of expansionary Germanism. We further object that he claims: I must be right, even if what I say is not true. No Hilsner would get a drop of Czech blood out of it." These were arguments that relied on the clear awareness of what Masarykův's opponents considered moral, undisputed, and what they did not want to examine in correct manner the trials. At that time, Masaryk responded: "We still have such moving times because corrupt journalism leads to an attack by a part of intelligence that is lazy to think. I demand facts, not phrases." The laziness of thinking seems to me to be what is behind the objections to the service law that are being invoked here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u168	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Martin Novotný came forward with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess, I do not know if it is some defect of my intelligence that I did not understand the analogy to the hilsnerias. I really must say that it exists, and thus I return to the historic excursion of Professor Zlatuška, an even older and clearly functional analogy to what is happening here today. It is a fundamental rule of law that the ancient Latins have already established in ancient Rome and which will answer that question to those who oppose the rendering law. And that rule says lex dura sed lex - bad law, but law. Because the law, whether we think it's okay or you think it's not okay, is the law of this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u170	Mr Gabal is the last member so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I'm gonna keep all the notes on what to do with the service bill to make it look like something, and I'm not gonna lecture them here. I just wanted to say one historical remark. I may be one of the few who helped the illustration law into the world in this hall, and he was sometimes forced to apply it. I want to say that the illustration law had a clear objective, namely the security of the state, not the punishment of individuals or their moral assessment. Here I would return to what my colleague Daniel Herman said, because I had the opportunity to see people who, in the massive repression of ministries, foreign service, foreign trade, police, and so on, had a chance to discuss their history, and I would not consider it entirely ideal. The prerequisite for applying the Illustration Act was that a service law would be adopted as soon as possible to replace it, develop it, give a positive idea of how people working for the State should be qualified, etc. The Lustration Act just says what positions people are not supposed to be in with certain qualities. He doesn't say how to judge these people morally. This is very important to realize. And since we have not been able to process, deliver and replace the bill of illustration in the meantime, what happened to us happened that, in some way, the elections were ahead of the moral aspects that are derived from the law of illustration. The rendering law has no moral formula, and its application at the time was definitely security, no, I would say individual. The last thing I dare say is efficiency. An hour's meeting of this honorable congregation costs 538 658 crowns. We can calculate whether we have done enough for the civil servants and the taxpayers for today's 7 times 538 658 crowns or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u172	Thank you, honourable Member. The President of the TOP 09 and Mayor Mr Kalousek shall have priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u173	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a hard debate for two days. We can argue for ourselves about how effective she was or wasn't, but she certainly wasn't useless. Some of us here have tried to convince the public that we are discussing the law of service, some of us are and have been convinced that there was nothing to do here but to fulfil the President's condition, on the basis of which a valid and effective rendering law against ministers of the Czech Government will cease to apply tomorrow. In any case, I do not remember, in the many years that I have been in the Chamber of Deputies, that one of its members has been having a discussion for so long. The name Andrej Babiš here was bowed down in every second or third performance. I would therefore like, at the end of this debate, to ask the President of the YES movement, Mr Babiš, very politely, of course, through Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Babiš if he would not come forward and address us, the Chamber of Deputies, if he would not give us his position. I'm sure the Chamber of Deputies, of which it is a member, is worth it. And I'm sure we'd all like to hear it very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u174	Thank you to President Kalousek. I'm asking if anyone else wants to join the debate. Yes, with a factual remark, Mr Igor Nykl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u175	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this country is being stolen. The public knows, everyone knows, and it was one of the reasons why some of us went into politics. [[Big laugh and a longer round of applause from the right.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u176	Quiet in the courtroom, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u177	And suddenly, there was a person who was willing to do something about it, and he's the person behind the results, unlike the people who were performing at the counter. They even perform here at the counter and moralize people who need to be referred to by the European Commission as a symbol of corruption, e.g. in health care. I'm fascinated by the fact that these people will come to the counter and preach to us. So I understand the legitimate concerns of my colleagues at TOP 09 and ODS that they must have some kind of fear of someone showing up who can do something about it. And I believe that this will go on and that it will actually change the situation. And then in a year, we'll talk about something completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u178	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Josef Hájek is reporting with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have lasted two days. I'm a rookie too. I've worked the shaft my whole life. At a time when I had 5,000 miners under me, and I was very worried that I didn't sleep, I turned on ČT 24 at 2:00 a.m. and watched the House meeting. I'm thinking, "Jesus Christ, what are these people paying for?" I can't believe it! [[Strongly and very loudly:]] There's a team of people on the shaft, a team of managers those miners trust. We act like managers, so those miners throw us out with shovels. Or the handles inserted into the anal openings. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I went into politics because... I really could have lived to see it on that shaft. I could have lived to see it. But I'm really upset about the TV debate, the surveillance, that when I was approached and the experts said, "Come to this House to change the culture so that you can really start doing something that these people are waiting for..." I'm a Moravian-Silesian county. Those people, the miners -- I'm going to Paskov Mine Wednesday -- those miners are waiting for what we're gonna do here, when the government will be there, when you start running those election programs, when you give us the seats. And now we're still dealing with Babiš, not Babiš, etc. Those people don't care! Let me give you an example. This is where you remember the fairy tales, etc. I'll tell you the situation from life. I was racing downstairs. I had a crash. Downstairs covered with miners. Those miners were waiting for help. They didn't ask if the doctor had a pioneer scarf or not. They were waiting to see if the doctor would come and help save them. And so is our nation. That nation is waiting for us to help them. 'Cause that's why we're going to the election. That's why. Otherwise, I would have reacted... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It's my wife's birthday, too, so I'm saying hello. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u180	Congratulations to the Members. Mr Kalousek came forward with a point of fact. [[The noise in the hall.]] Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u181	I do not blame Mr Babiš for apparently not hearing my polite request. Both my previous speakers, who took his place, were a dignified and credible substitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u182	With another factual point, Mrs Chalánková came forward. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to a previous speaker who had already performed two performances before. I wanted to introduce myself briefly. I have been in politics for ten years and I remember many thinking, many decisions, difficult times when it was necessary to resolve decisions in favour of the poorest, in caring for children, etc. And I would like to call on a colleague, through the President, who said that we Members of the TOP 09 are afraid of what will come from YES. [[Quiet in the hall. The Member shall continue in a quiet and calm voice.]] I can tell you, I'm not afraid of you at all. And I can and will defend all my decisions to you. I'm not afraid of you at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u184	Thank you very much for your point of view. I'm checking the O.R. to see if anyone else is checking in. If no one's reporting, I'm ending the general debate. [[Let's hear it from the middle of the hall.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur or the appellant if he wishes to hear the final words. Mr. Tejc. I beg his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that you would like me to respond now to all the speeches and repeat the debate again. That is why I will keep my speech rather until second and third reading and at committee meetings or tomorrow's seminar. I'd like to say one thing about this debate. I feel that, especially on TOP 09, there is an effort to create a kind of aperture, to release a kind of fog that is supposed to cover why the law really has to come and what it has to change. In the future it will not be possible what happened especially at the ministries of the right-wing government and especially at the ministries of the TOP 09, specifically at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of Mr Drábek. I think it is already legendary what happened from the point of view of occupying individual positions and ultimately the result that people who were politically placed on this ministry ended up investigating law enforcement authorities. [[17.20 hours]] Maybe if he was paying the service bill here, that wouldn't have happened. Deputy Minister Šiška would not have any influence on the staffing of the Ministry and officials who would have the opportunity to appeal against orders that could undoubtedly be dubious would prevent what was happening at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. What could not also happen is that individual senior officials of this ministry would receive rewards and salaries that did not correspond to their performance. I would just like to point out the information obtained directly from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the context of the last period's interpelation, an overview of the salaries paid by selected employees of the Ministry of Labour in the period from 1. 7. 2010 to 31. 12. 2010. Chief Director 2 had a salary of 150 thousand a month. CZK, Chief Executive Officer 3 - 131 thousand. CZK, Director of Department 1 - 104 thousand. CZK, Director of Department 5 - 89 thousand. CZK, Director of Department 9 - 91 thousand. Kč. This could not happen in the event of the adoption of the Service Act, because this is prohibited by law, and remuneration has to be done according to standard rules, i.e. no contractual salaries, no disproportionate remuneration. In my opinion, the fear that this law will be adopted leads to the TOP 09 and perhaps the entire right to create pseudothematics to conceal the real reason for the adoption of this law, because similar practices will not be possible if we adopt this law, and I ask you to release it for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u186	I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. [[Yes.]] Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It was a lovely day. It was a lovely afternoon. We've heard a lot of interesting performances, there's been a lot of good humor, we've learned that it's two wives' birthday. I don't think that day was lost. I would like to respond first because I did not want to develop the debate on what - through, of course, you - to the former President of the House of Němcová, who did not understand what I said. [[turning to the President]] I didn't mention in my opening speech that I don't like to be a newsletter or that I don't appreciate it. You gave me a little personal lecture here about what an honor it should be. It's an honor to me. I don't do newsletters for the first time, and I don't believe it's the last time. I appreciate being the rapporteur of this very important law in the area in which you, I mean the right-wing coalition, have done nothing in seven years. So this is, like, the first rebuttal of your mistake. And the second rebuttal-- sorry, now I've kind of forgotten what I'm saying. [[Fun.]] It's been a lot today. I'm sorry. Mrs. Němcová, of course - I'm sorry she confessed not to read the law. That's actually what happened, what happened all day. Members of the ČSSD, Members of the KDU-ČSL, Members of the Dawn and Members of the KSČM spoke about the law as it was submitted, they spoke about the principles on which it should stand and, where appropriate, responded to various complaints and that the law, of course, is not without fault and that it should be adapted. So we were talking about the wagon, whereas the ODS and TOP 09, of course, were talking about the goat, because they told you nothing but that it was a change in the rendering law, whereas it was a change in the service law. The reason why he's being presented is clear. We simply want better governance, we want the state administration to work better here, and I have not heard a single concrete proposal from an ODS member or TOP 09, as the government should look better, what should be done better. I've only heard all day about the bill of illustration, I've heard of Lex Babiš, but I haven't heard a single specific suggestion about what the state administration should look like, what the state service in this state should look like. And I confess that I have not even heard the proposal during my previous term of office, when I was sitting here as well, in principle I have not even heard it during the previous term of office, when I watched the House of Parliament only from television as a politician in the town of Chrudim and a newspaper reader. So I'm wondering what you want to do so that the government is better off so we can get out of this place so that she doesn't depend on political influences and she's competent. I haven't heard this from one single member of the former government coalition. All I've heard about is Lex Babiš and the Illustration Law. I think it would be worth it if you expressed yourself in some way on the law. And I'm sorry some of you even said they didn't read the law. You just haven't read the law, but you know what it's about! That's interesting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u188	Although the general debate has been closed, the President of the TOP 09 MP Miroslav Kalousek first came forward with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u189	I'm sorry, I really didn't want to keep you, but I have to. We exchange some prickly comments here in the debate, sometimes very strongly disagree with each other, but we do this in the general debate. After the debate is closed and Mrs Němcová cannot respond to the fact that she is being attacked, it is extremely unfair. And it is extremely unfair and repulsive from the rapporteur, whose task we have entrusted him with, is nothing more than to present the news report and not to mentor us here after the debate has been concluded. You should have done this, Mr Chvojka, through Mr President, in the debate when it was open to respond to you in the debate! [[entertainment]] Taking advantage of the rapporteur's position is cowardly and it is not true that you value this position!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u190	With priority rights on behalf of the ODS MP Vice-President, Mrs Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u191	The Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club said what I wanted to say. I ask that this Chamber of Deputies do not abuse the things that are going on in the political debate and do not mix with the news report. You said here, through Mr President, that you have been sitting in this House for a week, so you, my colleague, should know the best of us here! If you are proud to present this law, please act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber of Deputies!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u192	[[There's a messenger calling for a word. Chvojka.]] Under Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure, whenever the rapporteur requests a floor, he must be given the floor. I give the floor to the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u193	That's right! [[Fun.]] It's just the law and it's sad, I would say it's rude that most of the rules of procedure are those who have damaged and abused him the most in the last parliamentary term. I'm talking about the parties to the former government coalition TOP 09 and ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u194	I do not see anyone else registered, we have closed the general debate, the final words have been held, and we will therefore vote on the motion to reject the proposal tabled by Mr Stanjura of the Civil Democratic Party. There's been a motion to dismiss. I'm talking about this proposal... I'll call in my fellow Members from the lobby. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please sign up with your voting cards. Mr. Kott reporting? [[No.]] It's okay. So I'm opening the vote (number 27) on the rejection of the motion. Whoever is in favour of rejection, raise your hand. Who's against rejection? 166 Members and Members are registered, for 36, against 96. The motion to dismiss was rejected. [[17.30 hours]] We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Please, the rapporteur. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u195	I am sorry, but I think it was said as a proposal in the general debate that the deadline for committee discussions should be extended to 90 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u196	Yes, that is true, rapporteur, but first we will consider the proposal for the commandment and then the proposal for an extension of the deadline. Please, madam, your proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u197	I propose the commandment to the Committee on Public Administration and to the Committee on Petitions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u198	Two committees, then. Do you want to vote on this at once, or especially please? Especially, so the Committee on Petitions and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Another suggestion? Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u199	I propose ordering this press to the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u200	The Committee on Budgets. Please, Mrs Chalánková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u201	I suggest we order this press to the inspection committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u202	The inspection committee. Mr Laudát has a proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u203	Thank you. I propose to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u204	The Economic Committee. Does anyone else please have a suggestion on the commandment? Mr Korte, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u205	I propose a commandment to the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-22-ps2013-005-02-003-005.u206	Security committee. If that is all, we will vote on the commandment. First of all, the proposal by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this proposal to the constitutionally-legal committee. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 28, 167 Members and Members are registered, for 167, against no one. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, there was a motion for the commandment of this law to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I am opening the vote (number 29) on the commandment of this proposal to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Who's in? Who's against it? 167 Members are enrolled, for 161, against 3. The proposal was directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Next, a motion for a commandment was made to the Committee on Penitentiary Affairs. Initiating vote (number 30) on the commandment to the petition committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? 167 Members registered, for 68, against 74. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, we have a motion for a commandment to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote (number 31) on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's in? Who's against it? 168 Members registered, for 75, against 73. The motion was not accepted. Next, I have a motion for a commandment to the inspection committee. Initiating vote (number 32) on the commandment to the Supervisory Committee. Who's in? Who's against it? 168 Members registered, for 81, against 76. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Furthermore, we have a motion for a commandment to the Economic Committee. Initiating vote (number 33) on the commandment to the Economic Committee. Who's in? Who's against it? 168 colleagues and colleagues registered, for 57, against 79. This proposal was also rejected. The final proposal for the commandment is a motion for a commandment to the Security Committee. Initiating vote (number 34) on the commandment to the Security Committee. Who's in? Who's against it? There are 168 Members present, for 42, against 106. This proposal was also rejected. We have therefore ordered this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Furthermore, by the appellants, the deadline was extended by 30 days by Mr Jeroným Tejc. I am voting on an extension of the deadline for a 30-day hearing. Initiating vote (number 35). All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? 167 Members and Members are registered, for 165. This proposal was adopted. I therefore note that we have ordered this proposal to the constitutionally legal committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the last item in this meeting. I wish you a good evening, and this meeting is adjourned.
