ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u1	1. Opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic on sanctions of the European Union against the Russian Federation We have already discussed this point on Wednesday, 10 September, when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka take the position at the rapporteur's table, and the designated rapporteur for this item is Mr Jaroslav Foldyna. We will therefore now continue the interrupted general debate in which we ended up with Mr Ivan Gabal, who has come forward for the floor. Mr Gabal will no longer continue his speech. Mr Jaroslav Holík is also registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you after the break when you have drawn a lot of strength. And we come to the point of sanctions against the Russian Federation. I'm gonna have to ask my colleagues to quiet down a little bit...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u3	I also ask, Mr Members, my colleagues, to quiet down a little, or to transfer their actions outside this hall, and I ask the Member to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u4	Thank you. As I said before, sanctions against the Russian Federation. This point was discussed a week ago, since then the situation has changed partially. You know that today Kiev approved the status of rebel regions by a majority of votes, and that is why a number of questions arise. Okay, but why are we enforcing these sanctions? According to President Porošenko, Russia has withdrawn most of its troops. Of course, there aren't any photographs like there weren't any photographs of the soldiers being there. And there are other questions. Okay, Ukraine said it wouldn't gas Europe, but we're gonna give sanctions to Russia. So I'm gonna loosen this up a little bit, and I'm gonna tell you my story. There's always been why the refugees run to Russia, why it's not to Belarus, why it's not to us in Europe, why it's not to Poland. And that's the question I always asked myself when I listened to our mass media. Once again, when humanitarian aid was just a front for the Rus to take away military equipment from Ukraine, as I said, a hundred times a lie is becoming true. But it doesn't work for me. So instead of some exotic vacation, like Seychelles or Venice over Jizera, that, I stood up to the front, I took out my visa and decided to spend my vacation in a country where one of our fellow evil aggressor's teeth and claws are sharpened. As part of my vacation, I spent a great deal of time meeting refugees. I ran a route from the Caucasus, from Peelbrussels to the border of the Azov Sea. I stopped all the cars that were decorated with packages, had a Ukrainian license plate, and I asked everyone the same question. Please, why are you running to Russia, the country of your enemy? And the answers were almost the same as a copycat. And where else would we run? This is the only country that will take care of us. I quote, these were mostly people who were from Donetsk and Luhansk. As I said, I visited the Elbrus area, the town of Cheget, Baksan, but I also visited Krasnodar, I visited the place of Severnaja, where there are refugee camps. I'm going to move on to when, as I said, the answers were like a copycat. I mean, Porošenko only sends us soldiers robbing us. We don't trust him. His soldiers are bombing nursery schools, bombing railroads so we can't export our basic raw materials, coal. They turn off electricity, so there are currently eight shafts in Donetsk, which are flooded with water. Are we worse people just because we speak Russian? For us, the Russians have already built two so-called filtration camps to know what awaits us if there is any further escalation. We just don't believe in skanks. I said, "How dumb?" This is your official government. No, if the government is sending troops against its people, it's a junta. I also asked about the humanitarian aid that came. I say, but okay, the Kiev government promised to send you humanitarian aid. Answer: No, we only got bombs from there so far. Ukrainian soldiers, instead of helping to harvest crops that are more or less the best in years, fly planes and light fields to starve to death. Two years ago, there was an old race down here near Donetsk. And now it's on TV that it's either a work or a separatist villain. I also asked about the presence of Russian troops. They said, "But we don't know that Russian troops would fight here." I said, "How don't you know?" I mean, take it that there's a handful of insurgents out there sweeping up the regular army. They say, "They are peasants who fight for their country." I'm saying, okay, but the hell they are, how is it that they're so good? One lady who did not want to be appointed or photographed tells me: My son was an officer and commander of one of the parts of the Ukrainian army. When he saw the atrocities that Azov and Left Block do, he defected to the separatist side, including technology. Okay, he's defected with the tech. But where do you get bullets, ammo? Yeah, well, Luhansk was making ammo, so that's what we got. And they don't fight for money, they just fight for where they lived and for their families. So that's how I got answers like that from almost everyone. People say to me, we didn't support Majdan, we worked in factories in the fall, and the events in Kiev were more or less no fun, because we wanted us to get to some solid level like you in Europe or our neighbors in Russia. [[18.10 hours]] Look, as the Rus tend to us here more or less, because maybe we'll come here, get jobs, bring our 85-year-old grandmother, take care of us and the doctors. We want us to get involved in the work process. Of course, my presence wasn't completely secret. I note that I went there myself, for my money, for a normal passport, but I was also noticed very soon, so I had the opportunity to speak directly to local representatives at the end of the meeting. According to official reports, 750,000 people fled to Russia. It's official, I'm pointing out. In fact, it's probably double because those who have relatives there aren't asking for help from Russia, and they're more or less living thanks to the help of their possible brother-in-laws, perhaps cousins, etc. The management of the city of Krasnodar, which is currently the center where most people are running, because last time it was the Rostova region of Don, but currently, two weeks ago, the fighting moved south, there was no escape, so the current journey is to escape in Crimea, in Simferopol, there are buses waiting, they will take them to the port of Kerč, from Kerč by boat to Port Caucasus and from here by bus to Rostov to Don. The town hall in Rostovo na Don has separated part of the ground floor, where local officials are already prepared, each of the refugees more or less fills out a questionnaire, converts it immediately into electronic form, each one has a name or a name. undergoes a medical examination, whether someone is sick, has diabetes or hepatitis or anything else, goes to the hospital, divides them by profession and immediately places them where they can be valid. When I was there, it was the end of August, schoolchildren: Yes, you go to that school, you have high school, you go there and there, you study college, you go there and there. I was surprised myself, I call it a representative: it costs a lot of money. We pay about 10 million rubles a day. And I say, "Why are you doing this?" You actually restrict your own people and prefer fugitives. He looked at me like an asshole and said, "But they're people who need help. So I'm going to say, "I know you're all about as surprised as I was that you wouldn't want to believe it." I quote, I do not consider myself called to judge this situation. I just said what I saw and what I heard. And I note that I can document all these words with a film recording and a series of photographs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u5	I thank Mr Holík. Another duly signed up is Mr Milan Šarapatka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not have such an emotional speech as my previous speaker, but I would still like to comment on the course of this meeting in at least a few words. I've almost gotten used to our House's tragic comic show that year. But what happened and probably will still be taking place at this extraordinary meeting is really too much. Theatrical outputs of some Members on the delicate topic of the Ukrainian war are becoming increasingly dramatic. I've been watching and listening to the juggling with numbers, how many soldiers, how many techniques we should send to Ukraine, and more and more, it seems to me that we don't understand what this war means, what the people on whom the grenades fall, whether it's from any side. Therefore, allow me to express my deep conviction here that instead of weapons and soldiers, we should send the utmost assistance to Ukraine and instead of harrassing weapons, we should endeavour to achieve peace as quickly as possible. It would be much more useful if we created an effective aid system for the needy and, for example, instead of criticizing the Rus, they sent their own humanitarian convoy to Luhansk. Or have either of you heard that something like this is going to happen or a convoy from the European Union is going to go? At least I don't. And maybe if we were to offer students from Ukraine to study with us, or the people who live there today, so they could wait out the worst moments. No, we'll send weapons and soldiers. I was interested in the possibilities of study, and I was really impressed by the number. Through the Václav Havel Foundation, we send Ukrainian students 40 scholarships a year. And in my opinion, it would take a few thousand of them today to study here in peace. Of course, there are many other ways to help, but we deliberately give them up. Instead, we are committed to an approach that will not help anyone and only make the situation worse. The idea of helping people by making them worse, I really don't get it. She's very peculiar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u7	I thank Mr Šarapatek. Further, with a point of fact... the Member has already withdrawn it. So Mr František Laudát is also enrolled in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. Just a few comments on the debate, I won't be long. The situation in Ukraine raises a number of speculations, perverse propaganda, emotions, and leads to false conclusions. We are probably facing the biggest crisis since the end of the Cold War, including the collapse of the former Yugoslavia. I'm sorry that some of our politicians, by the way, you just heard it here, foreman, political scientists and journalists are imposing their truth in a country that experienced the friendship of the Soviet Union 46 years ago. I am not in favour of the view that the current Russia and the Soviet Union cannot be identified at all. Only the main Russian protagonist of the crisis Vladimir Vladimirovič Putin served in the intelligence structures of the Soviet Union. Our contemporary communists support this thesis unwittingly. I would still understand that they will support countries that fulfill their ideology, which I deeply disagree with, but it is an ideology. But Russia is no longer a socialist country, yet the Communists mostly approve Russia's approach and not only in this matter, but in virtually all others. I've never heard much criticism from their mouths. Before everyone starts communicating their position on the Ukrainian crisis, I would recommend that they answer, and I have also answered these questions. First of all... I don't know. The Prime Minister isn't here? He's here. Thank you. Perhaps his behavior would be clear and predictable, if even here he could possibly comment on something. [[18.20 hours]] First, which cultural circle does Ukraine belong to, or rather, where we want to see it? Secondly, are Ukrajinec entitled to freedom and democracy? Third: Are Ukrajinec entitled to the hope of prosperity? Fourth: How much does the conflict in Ukraine affect us? There's been a fall, why we're battling or interfering in a crisis or a problem that's not ours. Fifth: what is the real European policy of the Prime Minister, virtually. A government coalition? You know it sounds totally anti-polar from black to white. Mr Telička said something in Brussels, Mr Sobotka appears somehow. Lapsy, not only some Members and Ministers, irons the Foreign Minister. I must say, quite successfully. So what's the real policy anyway? Sixth: Who is to bear the risk of investing and trading in private companies in unstable regions and states? Here I would like to see Minister Mládek here, who showed what he did last time, I would have no other designation than the energy anšlus of the Czech Republic. Seventh: What price are we willing to pay or pay for our freedom and democracy and other nations? That almost none, has demonstrated our political representation under the cloak of a big business with China recently, in order to finally prove that China is offering to build motorways that failed in Poland. And railroad construction. Apparently, we don't have the construction companies that are able to build it. A really good starting point for increasing employment. Eight o'clock, who do we bet on? Ukraine or Russia? The part of you here, too, seems to me that you want to bet on Russia as if you were unlearned about what happened in this country. Not only in the 1950s, but especially in 1968. And nine: are we or are we not in conflict? It sounded like it wasn't our conflict. I've said that again. What exactly is our internal belonging to the European Union and NATO? I think our partners will be able to understand, tolerate, and probably not be too upset about not bowing to banana bends or anything like that. But if someone is acting weird in fundamental matters, fighting, and if we want to join different Orbán and Fic, I have to be on the alert, because that's exactly what I see as a huge risk to our safety in the coming years. In a detailed debate, if someone else does not do so on our part, I will give you here a motion for a resolution which will reflect these points. And I will beg you very much to support this resolution by at least more reasonable politicians with a horizontal perspective over the coming years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u9	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr Holík, Mr Seďa, followed by Mr Holík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry I'm getting off again. I was waiting to see who would come and remember 1968. Yes, it was one of the worst times, and I strongly condemn this invasion! I strongly condemn her! But there's one thing we need to realize, too. In 1968, we were attacked by armies of the Warsaw Pact. So they were Němec, Polák, Maďar, Bulhar, and Soviet Union. I take it I was 15 years old at the time, so I talked to some of them. From the former Soviet Union, they were mostly soldiers from the countries closest to us. They were mostly Bělorus and Ukrajinec. But I don't blame these guys. They didn't do anything, they didn't know where they were going. They've come to fight counter-revolution. But whoever I blame, it was the commander who gave them the order! That was Ukrajinec Leonid Iljič Brežněv! And the only one who got rid of this was Rus Michail Sergejevič Gorbačov, who gave the order to withdraw these troops! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u11	I thank Mr Holík. I apologise to Mr Seďa, but I have two more factual points - Mr Laudát and Mr Adam. So first, Mr. Laudát. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u12	Thank you. Firstly, to Mr Holík. I don't think Brežněv was Ukrajinec, I think he was Moldavan. But that's not relevant at all. After all, the Russian nation was the driving force of the Soviet Union. And what do you want to say, for God's sake! And for another -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u13	Ambassador, I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to ask for some peace in the room and for you to speak up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u14	Thank you. So I'm basically fighting this term, and I'm seeing big parallels in behavior. I'm not accusing the Russian nation, I'm accusing the Russian political elite. If you can still talk about political elites in the 21st century in this manner. And that's just reality. And I think, on the contrary, that the analogy fits very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u15	I thank Mr Laudát. With another factual remark, Mr Petr Adam. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u16	Hello. I will try a little without emotion - but to Mr Laudát through Mr President. Applying historical responsibility just doesn't make sense. If we want to accuse Putin or contemporary Russia of 1968, will we blame Merkelová for the Holocaust, will we blame the current French and British representation for Munich? It doesn't make sense to me. Let's talk about what's happening now, what's happening in Ukraine. People are suffering, and let's not encourage it. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mr Adam. Now, finally, Mr Seďa with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to the representatives of the right and will try to answer two specific questions here last Wednesday. Case of threat to the interests of the Czech Republic. It's Let Kunovice. Kunovice's flight celebrated 45 years this year from the first take-off of the very successful L-410 aircraft, which was just delivered to the countries of the former Soviet Union. At that time he had 5,000 employees, and after November 1989 he lost these markets and ended up with some 400 employees. Today, this company, called Aircraft Industries, is in better shape. He already has a thousand employees and exports aircraft to the whole world, but mainly to the Russian Federation. 'Cause he's got -- he's got -- he's got -- he's got -- he's got -- he's got -- he's got -- he's got -- he's got Can you tell me, if these sanctions are adopted, what will happen to this company? Is this the third audition? Case two, security threat case. There was lamenting again, and I'm gonna do a little bit of what I said this morning or actually this afternoon. The year 2003, the reform of the Army of the Czech Republic was launched in the framework of professionalization. At the time, 35,000 people, 26 200 professional soldiers and a military budget of 2% of GDP, were counted. Today it is 28 200 people, of which soldiers in the profession, I note tables, not real ones, 20 700 and budget 1.08 percent of GDP. So what do you want to talk about here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u19	Yes, thank you, my colleague Seďa. Now, Mr Martin Komárek, for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I still want to apologize for the last meeting. I am sorry that I fooled Mr Kalousek so much that he had to take a break at the club. But I would like to point out in this context that, in addition to the preferential right of abuse of breaks at the club, it is another major mischief in this House. But that's just an introduction. I want to comment, of course, on the point that we are discussing. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is so polarized. It's like one side says - I'll say it with exaggeration - poor Putin, it's not his fault, it's just everybody putting on a dog's head. And the other side seems to want Martin Stropnický on a white horse to lead the attack on Donetsk and hit the Separatists' heads. I think both are a bit of an ideology, because we all know the truth is somewhere in the middle. But beware, there are things that are certain and absolutely indisputable according to morality, conscience and international law. It is absolutely certain and indisputable that Russia is an aggressor. It is absolutely certain and indisputable that Russia has stolen part of Ukraine's free state by brutal rape. There's just no doubt about it. No one can doubt that at all. The fact that they legitimized it in Crimea by referendum afterwards, good. I firmly believe that if Hitler had held a referendum between the Němec there after the Sudeten was stolen, he would have had an even better result. And maybe not even under the pressure of bayonets and tanks, because those people really wanted it. [[Noise in the hall, disturbing in particular two loudly entertaining Members near the town hall.]] Yeah, mistakes were made by diplomats, mistakes made by corrupt Ukrainian governments - and now I'm gonna say pro-Western and pro-Eastern, one worse than the other. But that must not make us forget that Russia is clearly an aggressor. Definitely. There's no other interpretation. Perhaps more people are suffering now in areas inhabited by pro-Russian inhabitants, that is possible. Some say it, others say it. But again, there's one aggressor and one assaulted. That's just the way it is. And the European Union and NATO have no means other than sanctions if they do not want to fight, and we do not yet want that, and I hope we will not. We can either stand by or at least try to impose some economic sanctions. It is good that we are doing this, and it is good that the Czech Republic is joining the sanctions. I hope that this will continue to be the case, and that when we say that we want the impact on us to be as small as possible, which is the legitimate right of every country of the European Union, which is not one state, but a society of selfish states that we will say it in footnotes, but before that, let's say it in capital letters - yes, we want sanctions against Russia, because we are and will always be against aggression, we have our experience with it, so I think it is quite clear that there is nothing to deal with here. But on the other hand, we should not use this to slap each other, but, on the one hand, to join sanctions, and, on the other hand, - and I am very glad that the Prime Minister is here, so I may not even propose it in the resolution, but I am telling him that because I know that he is certainly a prudent Prime Minister. We've already done some humanitarian aid to the wounded on Maidan. I really think that what the Czech Republic can do besides join sanctions is try to provide humanitarian aid and alleviate the suffering of the common people in Ukraine - now I am not saying whether it is Ukraine for the West or Ukraine for the East - to ease the suffering of the people in Ukraine, which has provoked Russian aggression. So I ask the Prime Minister to consider this proposal and, if possible, to implement it in cooperation with humanitarian organisations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u21	I thank Mr Martin Komárek. Now, Mr. Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, who has declared himself in the debate, will take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u22	Thank you. Have a good evening. I would like to respond to the ongoing debate. I'm sorry to be running around like this, but we're trying, because I think you've watched that in the last few hours, Mr. Pohanka was kidnapped and apprehended by the editor of the Czech Radio, the separatists who arrested him when he went to see what was going on at our consulate in Donetsk, who was visited by this very group of separatists. They didn't stay at our consulate, but they stayed at Polish, where they created some kind of post. So, of course, I'm not satisfied with the fact that the Vienna Convention for respect for the space that the representative offices have at their disposal is thus violated, but I think I understand that the complaining will not go far. However, what was even more serious than the occupation of our consulate space in Donetsk, which we rent, is not our building, is that it disappeared during the day by Mr. Editor Pohanka. We've turned to the OSCE mission in Kharkiv, the Red Cross, and we've been developing activities in the last hours to find out what's going on. I can say at this point that I have some very fresh news that Mr. Pohanka is free, as you probably know. At this point, he was even spoken to by a representative of the State Department. So I'm explaining why I couldn't really concentrate on the debate going on. But I would just like to make a very specific point about it. Here it was said that the facts were important. So let me tell you that what seems to me to be the most fundamental thing about the development of the situation in Ukraine now is that on September 16, the Ukrainian Parliament approved a three-year special status with an extended self-government for the area controlled by pro-Russian militants. The Ukrainian Parliament approved the special status of Russian and amnesty for members of the rebel forces. It was approved on the basis of President Petr Porošenko proposal. This proposal, this step, which was approved by the Ukrainian Parliament, is actually part of the so-called Petr Porošenko peace plan, which was agreed in the so-called The Minsk group. I'll tell you its composition, it's a pretty key body right now. The former President of Kučma, representing Porošenko, then Russian Ambassador Zurabov, is there the representative of the OBSE, Mrs Talyavini, and there is a representative of the Donetsk Republic and the Republic of Luhan. In fact, this negotiating team has agreed on a procedure that includes the approval of the law, which is certainly of great importance to the current ceasefire, despite the fact that, as you know, there is a struggle around Donetsk Airport. At the political level at this point, the ceasefire is not questioned by anyone. I think that is a very important report from the southeast of Ukraine. And I would like to link it to what was said here in Mr Komárek's speech, that we should be interested in what we are able to do for Ukraine. So I'd just like to tell you that I'm leaving for Kiev tomorrow morning. I have more, but among other things, I will deal with representatives of the political representation and the Kiev government on this very subject. It's getting cold. It is clear that this winter will be difficult because the infrastructure in the southeast of Ukraine is completely broken. It is obvious that it will be very difficult to cope with the winter somehow. Even if, thank God, it would be possible for a truce to last, even then they are virtually unable to normalize the situation there so that there is enough, I mean water, electricity, etc. And my question to Ukrainian partners will be what they will probably need most at this point. We may have a lot in the material reserves, from permanent food to blankets or tents, which at this point we have in a relatively large amount and what we could transport to Ukraine. So I think what Mr Komárek here said was quite factual, that this is what we should be interested in. And I assure you that these are the questions that I will be asking on the Ukrainian side tomorrow, and I would like to know what the Czech Republic could do for those most affected areas where it lives, I estimate, about 5 million people, which is quite a large mass of people. Just so you know, the government's doing this, I'm discussing it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr Benešík, a colleague, also reported in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Very briefly, in fact. There's been a chance of humanitarian aid. I wanted to say that there are organisations that are waiting for nothing, such as the Charity of the Czech Republic, which has long since organized humanitarian events. So, ladies and gentlemen, we all have that option. I think the Charity of the Czech Republic is not the only one. If you'd like to help the Ukrajinec, we can. And it doesn't just have to be through charity, but, of course, charity is a proven brand. So go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u25	I thank my colleague Benešík. Now, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Thank you very much to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for explaining the situation in Ukraine and the developments regarding the arrested journalist, as well as the other problems we have there. Perhaps one thing would be necessary to conclude the debate on Ukraine. It was never about whether we sided with the Rus or the Ukrajinec. I don't care if Gorbačov was Rus or Ukrajinec or Brežněv was Rus or Ukrajinec. We're talking about a violation of international law. If a piece of the territory of Ukraine had taken Belarus or Turkey or Poland, we would have had to oppose it anyway. It is about maintaining order and international law, and in Europe it is not possible that one power, though more self-strong, has taken over the territory of a neighbouring country. That's what the whole debate is about. And unfortunately, this has happened. It is quite clear to me that the ordinary Rus, whether in Moscow, Novosibirsk or in St Petersburg, is not to blame, just as the ordinary Ukrainian has not been responsible for the unfortunate governments they have had in the last 20 years and have been destroying this country. We need to realise that this is not really about national issues - at least not for us. It is clear to me that there is nonsense nationalism and chauvinism in conflict on either side, but for us it is not a question of nationalism, but a question of law, order and the preservation of treaties that have been violated. We need to look soberly at the problem as to what it really is. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u27	I thank Mr Karel Schwarzenberg. We now have two factual points and then two more applications for the debate. First of all, Mr Tomáš Podivínský, then Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u28	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Government, colleagues, we have been having long hours of debate here about Ukraine, about the humanitarian crisis, about what we should have and how we should be, but basically it is a debate without anything practical and concrete. So I dare suggest one practical concrete step. There are 200 of us here in the House. Let's each give 2,500 crowns on our salary. That's half a million crowns combined. And according to the disposition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will most likely know where humanitarian aid is needed, we can provide specific humanitarian aid to Ukraine for half a million crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr Tomáš Podivínský. And now, Mr Karel Fiedler, also on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u30	Good evening, Mr President, good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I will turn very little, because the topic also concerns Ukraine. I would take advantage of the fact that we have this meeting here today and that the Foreign Minister Mr Lubomír Zaorálek is also present. I would like to ask how it is actually - I say slightly turn aside, but slightly - with the Volyňské Čech, because we have registered that there has been information that President Zeman has put himself into this, that the request they made, as I read in the media in March, has not yet been responded. I would like to remind you, Minister, that on May 7, I asked you here in this Chamber of Deputies about the situation with the Volyně Čech, whether they replied whether they had or were not interested in returning to our homeland. I'll literally read your answer from the tapestry, if you don't mind. I quote the Foreign Minister Luboš Zaorálek of 7 May this year: "I am simply telling you that what we have heard from Čech living in Ukraine and what seems important to me is that everyone is telling us very loudly that they do not feel that they would be threatened by the Ukrajinec living among them. And they say this very loudly and very clearly that they do not feel threatened by the environment, the Ukrajinec they are among. There is no tension between Čech and Ukrajinec." So I would very much like to hear from you, Minister, how it is possible that today we are discussing whether our government will comply with these Ukrajinec when they submitted, as the time sequence suggests to me, they were supposed to ask for repatriation to the Czech Republic, and I would like to know the answer if there are indeed 40 of them, as mentioned, and why you said in May that you had not heard such a thing. If it's some kind of government noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u31	Mr. Ambassador, you have made a point of fact. I must lead you to order. You're out of time. Thank you. With a factual remark or a preferential right? I have two registered for the debate. Minister, will two minutes be enough to make a point of fact? [[Yes.]] So, with a factual remark, the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u32	I can only assure you that I think we have the perfect information about what is going on among the Volyně Czechs. I can assure you that tomorrow, not only am I going to Kiev, but I will also take a car to Zitomir, I will meet with representatives of Volyňské Čech. The people who do this at the Ministry are in constant contact with them. Yesterday you could see on TV perhaps the most representative representative of the Volyně Čech, who even spoke about the situation in public. I want to assure you that, above all, it must be clear that any of the Volyně Čech today has a facilitated approach to the fact that they can request a permanent residence quite easily. He will receive it in this simplified procedure and can be relocated to the Czech Republic on this basis. It's used by individuals, the flow of individuals just doesn't increase. If anyone wants to, they can. No one's stopping that. And I can assure you that tomorrow I'll talk to them about it if the situation has changed. As far as I know, it's quiet and I don't know anything's going on. But it's best to see where it's at. We'll discuss it again when I get back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u33	I thank the Minister for using the factual remark. Mr Marek Benda, now duly signed up. Mr Pavel Blažek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u34	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I volunteered especially after today's opening speeches by some Members at the Dawn of Direct Democracy, which I found totally incomprehensible, talking about as if someone was going to send soldiers or weapons to Ukraine or something. I wanted to return to the original topic, as was the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the sanctions of the European Union against the Russian Federation. I'll take one quote and finally tell you whose quote it is. I hope I don't keep you too long, but I don't do it often, but this time I will. Quote: "Russian politics is unchangeable. Only Russian methods, tactics, maneuvering can change, but the polar star of Russian politics remains the subjugation of the world. Starfleet is standing in the starry sky. In Russia's policy, there is no more striking feature than the one that pursues not only its traditional goals but also the way to achieve them. There is no move in contemporary politics that could not be found in history. The Russian bear will be able to do anything until he knows the other animals won't fight him. There is only one way to treat a power like Russia - not to show fear. If Europe retreats, it will not only mean defeat, but it will be a lasting joy!" In 1856 the London correspondent of the New York Tribune, in the time of the Crimean war, commented on Russia's expansionary policy. The rapporteur's name was Karel Marx. I don't quote Marx very often, but I took this quote on purpose today. [[18.50 hours]] The debate that we started here was whether the Czech Government and especially the Czech Prime Minister acted responsibly when the European Union agreed on sanctions, so maybe next to Fic, we climb out and start saying: But we set aside against what everyone agreed, we reserved the right to veto. We'll consider it. We are really opposed to the power that violated all the rules of international law, has confiscated Crimea and may be about to entertain another part of Ukraine, and we are here playing a senseless internal war, meaningless cheating and overtaking to voters, which instead of - well negotiating in the European Union, however hard you want, but at the moment when we agree on something there, the team must come out and speak as one man: we have said sanctions or we have said no sanctions. But not that we are doing Czech Švejka, that everyone will say sanctions and the Czech Prime Minister will come out and say: we all agreed on sanctions, but I reserve an exception from them. That's what we blame you for, Prime Minister. This is what we consider to be very unfortunate and what we consider to be showing the European Union's weakness towards Russia's expansionary policy, which it is showing us. And I think we should avoid this very significantly in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u35	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now my colleague Blažek - President of the club with priority rights? No. So please, Mr Blažek, then Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u36	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. I'll start by saying something critical to all of us. Not all of them, of course, but some of them. This is a serious subject which, unfortunately, in the way we are discussing this, must not be reflected by the fact that there is an election coming up. The problem is that the situation is so serious, our position in Europe, and I will explain it in a moment, too, that we cannot simplify it so much that whoever knows that his voters may not like Russia or the Soviet Union, so they must be anti-Russian at all costs, those who, in turn, believe that his voters are more pro-Russian, so he has deliberately pro-Russian rhetoric or some other, etc. It's not a thing that's just naughty, that can survive. But the problem is, and here I would regret the government's decision-making or access to these things, then the government has to balance the internal, internal political situation terribly in order to give some opinions. If I'm blaming the government, maybe it's not the marginal things that Mr Sobotka, Mr. Prime Minister, is going to say something somewhere and maybe he could have said it better or worse. The problem is, and now I'm gonna spread it a little bit. Modern states simply and well only arise in three ways. Don't worry, I'll be very short. It's either based on some national principle, historical traditions, or on an international treaty. Unfortunately, Ukraine was the weakest, and this is the third way, which means an international agreement of various forces, including Ukraine. Let me just remind you that the national principle, as it turns out, does not apply here, or national, for the creation of this state, because they themselves, there, are seen not to recognize each other linguistically, culturally and I do not know how. As far as the second method is concerned, let us just remember that the borders of Ukraine, as we confess them today, were painted by Josef Visarionovič Stalin and then supplemented, as we recognize them today, by Nikita Chruščov. It's just reality. So there's only one option left, and these are international agreements. But they always have one terrible disadvantage, that once one of those strong players enters into such an agreement and it is done after every single time in history, it is not the first time at all, and I am afraid that not the last time, something will just start to happen to make this agreement change in some way. Our problem at this point, however, is whether or not we intend to defend the international system that was created on the basis of these agreements and insist on paying or not. But if we insist, we are in the sphere of a purely political decision, where - and I am already blaming this to the government - we cannot buy and count how much we export or import to Russia. It just doesn't work in a situation like this, and it's not even possible. Or maybe it's the second option, which means we're gonna count our own losses, but then we're just gonna automatically resign without another one to insist on maintaining an international system. I'm sorry, there's nothing in between. And the government, and the Prime Minister here, is in a situation where he's in between these two things, and that's impossible. Unfortunately, this is a big mistake, and now, please, I'm not really personal or concrete, some people who come from purely economics into politics, now I'm really not specific that they think it's the same thing. But it's not the same thing. There are political decisions where it just doesn't count because it can't be counted. And as opposition, we're just calling to know the government's decision, and we don't know it. It just counts one week, then we're straight again, then it doesn't count again. Let me just say one more thing that bothers me about this debate. Let us look at the situation that is taking place today, not from the perspective of Vladimír Putin and Mr Medveděv and so on, but from the perspective of a common Rus. Now, what is the ordinary Rus who lives in Moscow, St Petersburg, or even further, but I will say better in the European part of Russia. What's his relationship to the West? You will hardly find a Rus who, in principle, did not lose a relative in the war with the West in the last wars. That's what you have to say. Let us not be surprised that the ordinary Rus, and here I blame the terrible European Union, for not sending any explanation signals to the ordinary Rus at all, that what comes out of the West this time is possible - and it is certainly - positive. Let me say, and again, from the position of a normal Rus, and if we want to be critical of others, we have to start with each other. Repeat with me. What has the Russian nation experienced from the West in the last 200 years? Napoleon's army, World War I was about Ukraine, among other things, when German troops occupied Ukraine, World War II was about Ukraine, among other things. And Marxism is not a creation of Russia, but it was created in Germany and, with the money of the German government, Lenin established the Bolshevik regime in Russia. Why am I repeating all this? We do not think that the Rus who sits at home, and we are concerned that he does not want to war with us, so that he does not feel threatened, has many reasons to think that if something is from the West, we always say to ourselves: it is certainly positive and every Rus must understand it. Historical experience doesn't have that kind of experience. I would ask very much that we do not have different statements of the common type Russia, Rus and so on. Let us talk about Russia's current representatives - but watch out again! Let us not measure Russia by our standards. What is democracy or other systems of governance is not transferable. There is no tradition, and we cannot, and we must not even, unless we want to raise further conflicts with Russia, to measure our standards, because it is impractical and completely wrong. If there is to be a democracy in Russia, it will just take some time, but the Rus have to figure it out for themselves. Modern history - and now I'm going to be really critical of the West, and I know it wasn't easy. The Russian remembers Russia's last representative, who was supported by the West. His name was Boris Jelcin. During the reign of Boris Jelcin, and this is the memory of the Rus, with the support of the West, it occurred, among other things, that Russian property was acquired by several oligarchs, the rest of the nation, however it was, was losing a lot of certainty, and it has it in its head as a Western thing. We have to realize that. And it was Boris Jelcin who shot up Parliament with the support of the West. It's just reality. And now let's imagine how the Russian, when he's the current Russian government, and he's already doing it very cleverly, and we're less cunning in that sense, now I think working with the ordinary Rus, so he's just saying, something like this is coming, a disaster is coming, and something like the patriotic war was once, then there was a great patriotic war, who knows what's going to happen in the West, and who knows what's going to come back to us. But I repeat again. It's not in the Rus's memory that we exported clever books there. We drove the Einsatzgruppen SS there. That's what the Rus just remembers. I was in Russia, not so long ago, and there I found out one thing that fascinates me, and I blame the government and the European Union for that. There's no talking. There is tension with Russia, and no representative of us goes to Russia. Now is the time to talk to the Rus, but not just Vladimír Putin, but the others. What does the European Union pay so many people to foreign policy, what does our state pay so much to foreign policy if it does not communicate? [[19.00 hours]] I understand it might be a tactic that we're not having fun, that maybe it's some kind of tactic. But if a real war threatens, all it can be is attempts at dialogue and explaining. And they don't do that. I don't even ask when the Prime Minister was when the Minister of Foreign Affairs was in Russia. They're supposed to be there now in my opinion. That's my remorse. And to try to convince Russia of our positions, the Russian representative, and to try to convince them of the values we stand for. I'd like to say here, I think this time we're really offering Russia very positive values, whereas in the past, I wouldn't really think so, especially when it comes to Wehrmacht. But for them it's the same thing, for them it's something that came from the West. I would call on the government, in addition to some internal balancing of what is appropriate from the point of view of internal policy and our voters, to take political action to decide whether or not we are protecting the international system - then it can no longer buy and count, that is simply not the alternative. And I think that diplomacy needs to work and not sleep, because that's what it's for, after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u37	I thank my colleague Pavel Blažek. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, who is not here at the moment, so he's going down the line. That was the last one entered into the debate. If no one signs up for debate, I will conclude the general debate. I am opening the debate in detail. In a detailed debate, we have Mrs Dana Váhalová first and a colleague Ivan Gabal will be prepared. I will ask my colleague, before I give you my word, for peace, because we will talk about motions for resolutions. Please listen to the suggestions so we don't have to repeat many times. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I would like to sum up what has been said here in the debate at the last session and at this meeting, on four points in the resolution. So let me load: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after discussing the current situation in Ukraine 1. rejects further escalation of the conflict in eastern Ukraine and supports efforts to maintain a ceasefire, resolve the conflict and stabilise Ukraine as a sovereign state, 2. Considers it a necessary diplomatic solution to the current situation in Ukraine by an agreement between Ukraine, Russia, the EU and the USA based on respect for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, 3. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to do its utmost to safeguard the economic and security interests of the Czech Republic in line with the position of the Member States of the European Union in the forthcoming negotiations on further action by the European Union towards Russia, 4. Asks the Government to inform it of the progress of the negotiations, implementation and effectiveness of sanctions towards Russia in the institutions of the European Union. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Váhalová. Now, Mr Ivan Gabal, Mr František Laudát will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u40	Hello. Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister and Government, I would just rephrase what I was reading during my performance. I will just say the reasons for this, because we are not only dealing with the solution to the situation in Ukraine, but we are also dealing with how we should discuss at home a deeper consensus on such fundamental issues as the military conflict in our neighbourhood and access to it. So the motion for a resolution of the 15th session - I will give two points and I would like them to vote separately. 1. The Chamber of Deputies supports the implementation of planned parliamentary elections throughout Ukraine with the maximum participation of OSCE and European Union observers and without any military interference. The restoration of the democratic mandate of the Ukrainian Parliament and Government is a prerequisite for Ukraine's democratic self-determination and further development. 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Government to discuss in due time key documents and opinions and policies in the field of foreign policy, the European Union, defence agendas and NATO in the Foreign Committee, the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. I suppose that if these questions are discussed in time in the relevant committees, then we will also be discussing a common position in plenary. For colleagues from coalition clubs, I just add that we have a coalition agreement on foreign policy to discuss these questions in the committees. Thank you for your attention. I'll pass on the text.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ivan Gabal. I will ask the House for peace so that we can hear the third motion for a resolution. Mr Radim Fiala will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I submit the following motion for a resolution. This proposal reflects actually the original reason why together with the ODS we asked to convene this meeting. Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic after discussing the current situation in eastern Ukraine 1. Considers the Prime Minister's ambiguous position on another wave of sanctions as an unfortunate and damaging good name of the Czech Republic, 2. Notes that ambiguous positions in such fundamental matters harm the credibility of the Czech Republic with partners in the European Union and threaten the predictability of our decisions within NATO structures; 3. Asks the Government to make the position of the Czech Government clear and uncompromising against any aggressor against the European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u43	I thank Mr František Laudát. Now, Mr Radim Fiala, the last member of the detailed debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u44	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I have waited for a detailed debate. I also wanted to say a few more words about Ukraine, but until then I was very surprised by some of the resolutions that have now been read here and which I have had the opportunity to read from, for example, Mrs Váhalová or Mr Gabal, who are basically the same rhetoric that the Úsvit movement has consistently and for a very long time. Just let me say a few words about the sanctions. Today there have been sanctions - I do not want to unleash it again, I will just say that the Dawn movement is against sanctions, especially at a time when there is some kind of peace ceasefire. We say: Let us agree, press both sides of the conflict to sit at the negotiating table, i.e. the Kiev government and the rebels, and try to reach a peaceful solution, because peace is what we all probably expect to be the result of the entire Ukrainian conflict. However, although the Úsvit movement is likely to vote in favour of some other resolutions after a very short consultation, I will read the resolution of the Úsvit movement, which is very general and basically reflects what I wanted to say here today: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls for a peaceful solution to the conflict in Ukraine. The civil war must be ended by negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u45	Thank you. Now a colleague of Mr Soukup and then a colleague of Mr Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I will return to what my colleague Komárek was talking about. I would like to put forward a supplementary motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Váhalová: the Chamber of Deputies instructs or calls on the Government to immediately open negotiations with the Government of Ukraine on possible humanitarian aid to the Czech Republic in the territories affected by military operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u47	I thank Mr Zdeněk Soukupa. Now my colleague Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u48	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. In the first part of this meeting last week, I informed you that the Committee on European Affairs adopted a resolution which largely reflects what is being said here. I have information that perhaps the resolution of our committee will form the basis for another set of resolutions that will be heard here today. [[19.10 hours]] And one last point about discussing various matters in committees and informing members of the Government of the Czech Republic about these matters in committees. The basic prerequisite for a member of the government to come to the committee to report and discuss anything is for the committee to be convened first and secondly, to be invited there. The Committee on European Affairs regularly invites the members of the Government and, with exceptions that are always excused and excused, the members of the Government will come, including the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u49	I thank my colleague Benešík. I've exhausted all applications for a detailed debate. A colleague of Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u50	I just want to make sure that this is in agreement, what the President of the Committee on European Affairs has said or is not. I have information that no one here has read this explicitly on a microphone, so I just want to make sure that there were six resolutions that were adopted by the Committee on European Affairs that we would vote on them. I'll read them just in case. It's okay. So these are resolution 87 and resolution 88 approved by the Committee on European Affairs. I'll modify them by putting the House in place of the committee. So first, let me combine this a little bit to make some sense: 1. The Chamber of Deputies notes information on the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the proposal for a second wave of EU sanctions against Russia. The Chamber of Deputies condemns Russia's continued aggressive behaviour in relation to Ukraine. - That's resolution 88. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to consistently defend the security interests of the Czech Republic in agreement with Western democracies. 4. The Chamber of Deputies continues to consider it a necessary diplomatic solution to the current situation in Ukraine, based on respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and independence of Ukraine, including the full use of sanctions in accordance with the interests of the Czech Republic. 5. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister to act in full agreement and unity with the position of the majority of the Member States of the European Union in the subsequent negotiations on EU sanctions against Russia. 6. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to inform the Government of the progress of the discussion of this proposal. The rapporteur is interrupting. It says to add this in writing, however, it is the rapporteur's duty to know the committee's resolution, and those resolutions are published on the website of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm just here to make sure there's no chaos in the vote, read it again. These are not new proposals, they are proposals that the Committee on European Affairs has already adopted mostly. Thank you. I then propose that, as part of the vote, these proposals, which we have already set up to assess European issues, be accepted to be voted on as the first, on these six points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u51	I thank my colleague Stanjur. I therefore note that we have exhausted the detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the Prime Minister's final word. It's not like that. The rapporteur? Yes. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u52	I would like to ask colleagues who have tabled proposals to present them in writing so that we can prepare them, and I propose a 20-minute break so that we can prepare the voting process. You can see that there are many proposals. Please submit written proposals and I would recommend a 20-minute break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u53	Okay. Yes, I will comply with the rapporteur, because we will probably have to determine how to vote, virtually. the order, because the President of the ODS club proposed that the vote on the committee's proposals be put first, not in the order of Mr Váhalová, through his colleague Gabal, Mr Laudát and Mr Fiala. I'm declaring a recess until 7:35 p.m. That'll be enough. I ask the drafters and rapporteurs to agree on how we would continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue. Please take your seats and, given that we are only waiting for a vote, I would like you to end your discussions so that I can ask the rapporteur to present the draft procedure first. Since six colleagues with five proposals, with five different types of proposals - more than one, but five types of proposals - have been put forward in a comprehensive debate - the procedure will have to be approved first. Once the situation in the House has calmed down, I will give the rapporteur the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we vote on the individual proposals in order as the proposals have been tabled, i.e. the order of one ink to six, and in the individual proposals, we vote on points. But now to decide by vote that the order should be determined as the proposals for plenary came.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u56	Thank you. A colleague of Stanjura is reporting for the debate. Please. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u57	I have a counterproposal. I think it is logical for us to vote first on the resolution adopted by the committee and then on the others, calmly in that order, as the rapporteur has proposed. I agree that we should also vote on this committee resolution separately on each item, with a total of six points, with complete agreement. I just think that the logical procedure is to deal first with the committee resolution and then with the others that were heard during the debate in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u58	Okay, that's possible, but that's what we're gonna vote on. So first of all, we're going to vote if the order is as he put it... On the counter-proposal, that is, if we reverse the order, or we vote on what Mr Stanjura said. If this does not pass, we will vote on the rapporteur's proposal and we will decide on the voting procedure accordingly either one or the other. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your identification cards, and as soon as the number is stable, I will vote on the proposal made by Mr Stanjura, first the committee and then the rest. I've started a number six vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 6 from 157 for 40, against 78. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the proposal - vote on the rapporteur's proposal because no proposal has yet been voted on. I have begun the vote on order number 7 and I ask who is in favour of the proposal for a procedure, as presented by the rapporteur. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 7 of the present 157 for 96, against 18. The motion was accepted. We will therefore proceed in the way approved by the House, as the rapporteur has put it. Mr rapporteur, talk to the proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u59	Thank you. So here I have Mrs Váhalová's proposal, which says and recommends that we therefore vote - four paragraphs - paragraph by paragraph. Or does the lady submitting want us to vote...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u60	No, rapporteur, my colleague said en bloc, but we're asking if she wants the individual, because that's what we said we'd be in those... Just like my colleague Gabal said. And some of them want to do it individually. But this is where my colleague said en bloc. En bloc, okay. Mr. Stanjura, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u61	The rapporteur has proposed that we will vote separately on each item, and the House has agreed to it. So either you're invoking the proposal made by the rapporteur - it can't be done like this. The rapporteur made it clear that our proposals differed only by procedure, but it was clear that each point was separately. So if you want en bloc, you need to change the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u62	Mr President, I will not argue about the procedure, but I took it the way the proposals were put forward. If a colleague Váhalová said the proposal en bloc, my colleague Gabal's proposal individually, individual points, Mr Laudát also individual points, well, but it will be easier if we vote on the individual points and on what has been said with my colleague Váhalová, because it will be faster than I have two votes here. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u63	Thank you for the floor. So Mrs Váhalová's proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after discussing the current situation in Ukraine, rejects further escalation of the conflict in eastern Ukraine and supports efforts to maintain a ceasefire, resolve the conflict and stabilise Ukraine as a sovereign state."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u64	Everyone understood. I've started voting order number 8. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 8 of the present 156 for 144, against 1, the proposal was adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u65	Another proposal is: "It considers it a necessary diplomatic solution to the current situation in Ukraine, an agreement between Ukraine, Russia, the European Union and the United States of America, based on respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u66	Yes. I've started voting order number nine. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 9 of the present 156 for 117, against 2. The motion was accepted. We can make another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u67	Thank you. The third proposal is: "It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to do its utmost to protect the economic and security interests of the Czech Republic and to comply with the position of the Member States of the European Union in the forthcoming negotiations on further action by the European Union towards Russia.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u68	Yes. Voting number 10, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 10. Of the present 157 for 90, versus 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u69	The fourth proposal is: "It asks the Government to report on the further progress of the negotiations, implementation and effectiveness of sanctions towards Russia in the institutions of the European Union."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u70	Yes. I've started voting order number 11. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 11. Of the present 156 115 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u71	The next proposal is Mr Ivan Gabal's proposal for KDU-ČSL, and in part. The first part is: "The Chamber of Deputies supports the implementation of planned parliamentary elections throughout Ukraine with the maximum participation of the OSCE and the European Union observers and without military interference with their progress, the restoration of the democratic mandate of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Government as a basic assumption of democratic self-determination and further development in Ukraine."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u72	Yes. I've started voting order number 12. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 12. 157 for 101 Members present, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u73	Another proposal by Mr Gabal is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Government to discuss in due time key documents and opinions and policies in the field of foreign policy of the European Union, defence agendas and NATO in the Foreign Committee, Committee on European Affairs and in the Committee on Defence of the Parliament of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u74	Yes, I have begun voting order number 13. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 13. Of the 157 present for 58, versus 21. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u75	Another proposal is the proposal by Mr Soukup of the ANO movement: "The Chamber of Deputies instructs the government to immediately open negotiations with the legal government of Ukraine on possible humanitarian aid to the Czech Republic in the territories affected by combat operations."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u76	I've started voting order number 14. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 14. Of the present 156 for 110, versus 7. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u77	Another proposal is from the Dawn MEP's club: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls for a peaceful solution to the conflict in Ukraine. The civil war must be ended by action."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u78	I've started voting order number 15. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 15. Of the present 157 for 40, against 24. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u79	The next proposal is a proposal from the TOP 09: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after discussing the current situation in eastern Ukraine, considers the ambiguous position of the Prime Minister on another wave of sanctions on the unfortunate and damaging good name of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u80	I've started voting order number 16. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 16. Of the 157 Members present for 29 against 116. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u81	Another proposal: "It states that ambiguous attitudes in these fundamental matters harm the credibility of the Czech Republic with partners in the European Union and threaten the predictability of possible decisions within NATO structures."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u82	I've started voting order number 17. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 17. Of the present 157 for 27, against 104. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u83	Another proposal: "It asks the government to make the position of the Czech Government clear, uncompromising against any aggressor against the European country."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u84	Yes. I've started voting order number 18. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 18. Of the present 157 for 31, against 71. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u85	Thank you. The next proposal is a proposal from the ODS, which is based on the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs, and here is that the Chamber of Deputies...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u86	Oh, well, let's just end the vote. It's okay. Please continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u87	I am giving a lecture on the proposal of the ODS, which is based, once again, on the proposal of the Committee on European Affairs. It shall have the following paragraphs: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the proposal for a second wave of EU sanctions against Russia."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u88	I've started voting order number 19. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 19. Of the present 156 for 47, versus 35. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u89	Another proposal is: "It continues to consider it necessary to resolve the current diplomatic situation in Ukraine based on respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and independence of Ukraine, including the full use of the possibility and sanctions in accordance with the interests of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u90	I've started voting order number 20. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 20. Of the present 156 for 45, against 32. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u91	The third is: "It calls on the Prime Minister to act in full agreement and unity with the position of the majority of the Member States of the European Union in the forthcoming negotiations on sanctions against Russia.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u92	I've started voting order number 21. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 21. Of the present 156 for 44, against 62. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u93	The fourth is: 'Requests the Government to report on the progress of the negotiations of this proposal in the institutions of the European Union'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u94	I've started voting order number 22. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 22. Of the present 156 for 41, versus 34. The proposal was not accepted either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u95	We have the last two paragraphs, the last two proposals that we will be voting on, and that is: "The Chamber of Deputies condemns Russia's continued aggressive behaviour in relation to Ukraine."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u96	I've started a number 23 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 23. Of the present 156 for 47, versus 54. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u97	There is the last proposal: "It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to consistently defend the security interests of the Czech Republic in agreement with Western democracies."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u98	I've started voting order number 24. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 24. Of the present 156 for 73, versus 7. The motion was not accepted. I ask, Mr rapporteur, if all the proposals have been exhausted. Yes, they were. No one has questioned that we voted on all the proposals, so I thank the rapporteur, thank you to the Prime Minister, and before I finish, Mr František Laudát, on behalf of the Chairman of the TOP 09 MEP, is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u99	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, I welcome the fact that the coalition has enabled us to discuss this point at all, on the other hand, I regret to say that the things that have been basal and which have been held by Czech democracy since 1989 have been questioned at least at the last point in the vote and that, next to the Prime Minister, you have sent another terrible bad signal towards the European Union and to the North Atlantic Alliance. I'm sorry. You still have something to say to the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-015-02-001-001.u100	Thank you. Since the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies has been exhausted, the meeting is over, I look forward to seeing you tomorrow. The 18th meeting will continue according to the approved agenda at 9 o'clock, as my colleague interrupted it. [[Seventeen right.]] Have a good evening, and I'm looking forward to seeing you.
