ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u1	139. The draft law amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on public health insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended /German press 307/3/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered to you as House Press 307/4. I welcome both of us senators, Senator Senator Žaloudík, and Senator Plaček. The Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček took the position at the rapporteur's table. I ask that the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček comment on the resolution of the Senate and on the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, allow me to summarize the process of discussing the draft amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, the primary objective of which is to improve patients' access to spa care and, at the same time, to adjust the conditions for payment of this care from the public health insurance system so that the legislation is consistent with the March decision of the Constitutional Court, which at the end of this year repeals the current 2012 decree on the so-called indicative list for spa medical rehabilitation care. The content of the proposal is in particular to determine for selected indications the length of stay of spa care again for 28 days instead of the current 21 days. This is mainly the treatment of diseases of the circulatory, respiratory and musculoskeletal tract, mental disorders, skin or gynaecological diseases. Furthermore, the possibility of extending repeated treatment stays is extended, in particular for children who are restricted by the current decree. The proposal also takes into account the specific needs of individual groups of patients, and so it is proposed, for example, that people suffering from interstitial pulmonary fibrosis as an occupational disease, who were entitled only to one comprehensive stay and repeated stays only as a contribution, can receive comprehensive spa care even during repeated stays. As part of the discussion of a government draft in the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Hovorka's amendment was adopted, which does not concern the indicative list of spa care, but the publication of contracts concluded between health insurance companies and health services providers. As I have already said, this regulation is conceptually not entirely systemic and we are addressing the issue with the Government's proposal for Law No 48, which is already under discussion in the Legislative Council of the Government and should be in government by mid-January this year. This was beyond this in the context of the discussion of this proposal in the Senate concerning the assessment of the impact of the proposed amendment on public health insurance reimbursements. I would perhaps just like to document on this proposal that it is here to show why it is much more appropriate to deal with such a complex issue by a standard legislative process, including internal and external commentary procedures, including in the Legislative Council of the Government, because the Ministry of Health at that time was not able to identify all the secondary negatives that this proposal will bring and, on our question to health insurance companies, whether this would be a major problem in providing health care, it was said that it was not. On this basis, we have also expressed a neutral position. However, at the time this proposal was approved, the organizations of doctors, whether it be the Association of Outpatient Specialists, Practice Doctors and the Czech Medical Chamber, came forward because this supplement makes life very difficult for them because, in addition to the mandatory publication itself, which is dealt with by the government proposal in a similar way, it provides for the effectiveness of these additions and all the agreements of practitioners and outpatient specialists with insurance companies to be made public. In practice, this will mean that in view of the system of reimbursements, when these associations of doctors negotiate detailed matters with insurance companies by way of derogation, it will mean that when they reach agreement in March and when, let's say, in practice, the additions were effective retroactively from 1. 1. that's not going to happen, and that's not going to be possible. Another issue raised by this proposal, which we do not consider too good, is that it gives one party, namely only the health insurance company, the possibility to decide when it will actually take effect from when the contractual arrangement in question, which can also, of course, affect the remuneration. So I would like to reiterate that the government's proposal, which addresses all these matters comprehensively, will be discussed at the government's meeting at the first or second session and basically obliges all insurance companies to publish not only additions but also basic contracts, imposes on insurance companies multimillion-dollar sanctions on non-compliance. We believe that this is sufficient. [[11.30 hours]] As far as this procedure is concerned now within the Chamber of Deputies, I must say that I consider it crucial for the spa to have a valid indicative list. Therefore, I suggest and recommend that we vote in favour of the wording of this law in the Senate version, which thus removes the problematic sticker. In the event that this did not happen, of course, I also consider the adoption of the original proposal with the negative effects on thousands of doctors, because I simply think that the impact on tens of thousands of employees of the spa is more significant for thousands of patients. But if the Senate version were accepted, it would be without any impact, and I will therefore ask primarily for the support of this option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček and ask if Mrs Soňa Marková wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. It's not like that. So, before I open the debate, I will make an apology. From today's meeting, Mr Ivan Gabal, Minister Karla Šlechtová, Mr Karel Tureček and Mrs Zuzana Kailová apologizes for health reasons. I am opening the debate and recall that amendments are not admissible. At the same time, I remind the Senators to whom I will give the floor first, that I will not be able to speak after the end of the debate, as Vice-President Jermanová has done, given that I would also not want to lead them to the point. So, senators, who's the first one of you? Please, Senator. Senator Jan Žaloudík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, I think it is a solid start with an apology that, in the last working days of the year, we are making life difficult for a standard that could have gone very easily. I'd like to apologize for that, but when we have the role of insurance, you don't know about insurance when there's no short circuit, and you only know about them at home when there's a short circuit. Plus, I think we're all happy to celebrate The New Year as a feast of hope and reason, and that we will contribute to this day's decision. The amendment of Act 48, which is very flowery, complex and not perfect in everything, I would say even watered, is undoubtedly necessary and will be necessary. At this stage it was necessary to decide or find the Constitutional Court, which defined the conditions for the adoption of legal provisions in spa care. That's what we've been working on for months, you've been in the House since 3. 9. then on the Senate Health Committee from 2. 12 and 10. 12. we would have been very happy to approve this amendment regarding the spa with everything, even with additions, if there had not been an amendment, I would not have said the sticker, I will say an amendment which was discussed completely atypically and related to the area. So I repeat, the Senate has absolutely no problem with the part that was the subject of a government proposal, and I think we should all support this part. And we even insured this part as an insurance policy by proposing a provision in case it was possible for 1. 1. the standard could not be approved, so that neither the spa nor the patients could suffer. And now, on top of that comment on the parliamentary supplement at third reading, the supplement was not discussed in the standard way, so it did not come through the ordinary legislative mechanism, but appeared twice in the House's Health Committee, which did not agree with it, and then it was approved here, perhaps not after a long discussion at the third meeting. I would just like to remind you that, at the same time, very intensive preparations are under way for the so-called transparent amendment to the Health Insurance Act on the initiative of the Ministry, which we will certainly be discussing here, and undoubtedly in the Senate, and we should focus on this as Parliament all of us, and which will at all relate to corrections in funding. And now: Here these supplements, one has three words in that first article "individual contractual arrangement," and the other part has two sentences, where it is said that contracts between the provider and the payer must be published within 30 days, which only determines one of those contractual partners, there is already a bit of a defect in law, and it is not said whether the second day after the conclusion of the contract, or until the 30th day, which has considerable financial consequences especially for small ambulances and for smaller medical facilities. And the second sentence says that the contract will not be effective until the day of publication, which is, in a way, a legal precedent as well. Certainly none of the senators - and we attach special importance to it, therefore we are here also two of the 81s, because we did not dare to come all - none of the senators do not think that contracts should be transparent and that they should not be published. But for your information, those who don't move in the field of health so daily, they're tens of thousands of contracts, even estimates last year say the number of 120,000, from the level of really small village ambulances to the contractual arrangement of large hospitals. Now really try to tell me or try to tell me whether the transparency by publishing all the eggs in the pond will be very clear, which of these eggs has a genetic flaw, or whether we can correct the rules of football by showing all the matches from the county championships to the world championship. We are very much in favour of discussing the first months, even in the media, even in the expert forums and then in the parliamentary forum, these amended rules, which will cover broader aspects than mere disclosure. The publication will also be there, there will be penalties for non-publication. We should all insist on that. But with these two sentences, we can't fix many years of different deformations. Because we are currently operating in a relatively atypical system, where the agreement of the payer and the provider will never actually happen, and we're sort of counting on it, so we're drawing up a payment decree by the end of the year, better before Christmas, but we've already had 31. 12. And now the correction of the system to hold on at all, because the imbalances are significant there, and I have a problem with the transparency that I don't know what I'd find new than the statement that there are significant imbalances, so only then are they fine-tuning, and they will now be fine-tuning until the date of publication, that is, the effectiveness of these contracts will be up to the date of publication. I have no doubt that Mr Hovorka, whose activities in recent years are very attractive to me, is really trying to introduce, to correct some of the mechanisms in the health sector, that they are very well intended, are completely different from the many stickers that have been in the past. But he - I think it's a little impatience, and I wouldn't dare sum up this fundamental issue of health funding this way before Christmas, under pressure from spa care and 1. One, and two sentences, and then we'd be leaving it slowly. I would like to call you, above all, to the great attention that we must all pay to the very transparent amendment that is about to be made. She could make up for a number of the mischief of the past few years. Plus, I have a doctor to defend. Please, not all doctors are bad guys. I almost think there's Gaussův's distribution of villainy as in other fields, and I almost think there's fewer villains, which comes from the nature of the discipline. But most of these contracts are made to maintain the stability of the system, and their simple disclosure doesn't have to tell you much. I signed a contract a week ago for a medical facility where it was that KKOP in the MOU diagnosis C61 increases or expands by ATC group L 0.2 BB. You can have this on the Internet, I can send it to you. Will this help you to see if this institution has any other payments from the insurance company? 188 hospitals, thousands of offices, seven insurance companies. And in this system, simply posting transparency on the Internet doesn't mean much. [[11.40 hours]] Let us try to easily adjust or correct the rules and then insist that all these contracts be properly published and even sanctioned if they are not published. But let us not consider the effectiveness of the publication of these contracts, because then the one contracting partner can also determine a little bit of the terms of the contract completely asymmetrically. I don't want to talk anymore because those who are in the system know why the Coalition of Private Physicians, the Czech Medical Chamber Convention, the Czech Stomatological Chamber questioned this quick and rapid provision very much without problematic the need for publication. But the problem is much wider and much more complex. And it is not a promise that it will be dealt with in a few years. Indeed, the preparation of this amendment of the law is in progress. Let us be patient for a few weeks, months, so that we can be very thorough about this. So this is a message from the Senate that was agreed by all members of the Health Committee without distinction and also 61 of the 65 Senators present, with others abstaining. So the position is fairly consistent. And it doesn't mean, I'm stressing that in the end, no retreat from transparency. I am grateful to Mr Hovorka that he has put this subject on the table in this way, so that we can devote ourselves to him in that promising year 2015. I wish you all good health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u5	Thank you, Senator Jan Žaloudík. Now Senator Jan Žaloudík will speak, Mr Leoš Heger will prepare himself. Please, Senator, you have the floor. - Sorry, Vladimír Plaček. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u6	Good morning. Mr President, Madam Government, honourable Members, many have been said in the mouth of the Guarantee rapporteur from the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Senate. I'd like to add a postcard from the Senate Constitutional Legal Committee. The draft amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act is a response to the Constitutional Court's decision on 31. 12. 2014 canceled the 2012 Decree, which issues an indication list for spa rehabilitation care. This was done on the basis of the proposal of 21 senators and senators and the finding was announced on 2 April this year. Public Health Insurance Act - or this amendment was intended primarily to address spa matters. If that were the case, there was no problem with the Constitutional Legal Committee, which met the week before the meeting of the Committee on Health and Social Policy in the Senate. We have already discussed on our committee the issue of the supplement that the Chamber of Deputies has adopted on the basis of Mr Hovorka's proposal. We saw this as a problem, but we perceived an even bigger problem if after 1 January 2015 the spa was in a legal vacuum. For this reason, we have assessed the matter as better to propose the approval of the proposal as amended by the referral of the Chamber of Deputies. However, the debate was the same as it was on the Senate's Health and Social Committee, and as Mr Žaloudík said, the vote in the Senate plenary was then quite clear. I would now like to call on you to support our Senate proposal so that the spa can really work after 1 January 2015 on the basis of the rules that are proposed in the draft law on public health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u7	Thank you, Senator Vladimír Plačka. Mr Leoš Heger will also speak in the debate, Mr Rostislav Vyzula will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Honored Senators, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. Given that the debate that was raised here about the proposed amendment on public health insurance, which concerned both the spa and the amendment which was submitted and approved by the House, and given that the discussion was relatively unilateral, I took the liberty of speaking with a certain defence of the amendment, which was said by many. I cannot be considered as some non-critical defender of Mr. Hovorka's colleague, and also when he submitted the amendment in two versions, which were very extensive compared to the current state, so I spoke against them several times on the Health Committee, given that the versions were quite difficult to administer. When he submitted the amendment for the third time in the House, I was in favour, because the amendment is simple, straightforward and leads to a very quick result in terms of transparency of the contracts. The fact that certain contractual guarantees would be called into question was sufficient here. I just have to remind you that the contractual security of care providers is not due to whether contracts will be published and whether publication will be made in time so that the contract does not delay, but those uncertainties are mainly due to the fact that care providers are in a very asymmetrical position vis-à-vis strong health insurance companies and, in practice, this often in the past has led, and so far, to some insurance companies, that payment additions are signed with a very long delay, and there are no rare situations where, at the end of the year, providers do not have signed additions more extremely at the end of the year. But on the other hand, I have to say that in most cases, insurance companies will end up agreeing with providers, and given that the supplement doesn't determine payments quite definitively, but it determines them within one year or half a year for outpatient providers, then those six months or years are settled and everything is settled from the beginning of the year. A number of opponents of this type of transparent contracts, that is, the validity of the contract only after its publication, and a number of lawyers argue that it is right and that it is better, because despite the large sanctions that Minister Němeček has mentioned here, it can very easily happen that the additions that should be published will not be published and will never be discovered if they do not know about it, and it will be some sort of secret agreement between the insurance company and one provider, which may not be one ambulance, but it can also be a giant hospital and a huge financial supplement. I would just say that the interesting thing is that, as Senator Žaloudík argued here, so a very substantial part, I do not want to say a larger part, but a substantial part was devoted to the fact that if tens of thousands of contracts were published here, it would not lead to any transparency. This, I think, is a very bad idea, I have to criticize it, and it raises concerns in me that if the Senate considered it that way, from this step of reasoning it is very close to the fact that in the end no publication of contracts is prescribed by law, even though the Minister has promised it. But the legislative process in the new amendment, which has not yet been in government, will be quite long. To close this part of my act, I declare at least that I cannot vote for the Senate version, and I prefer that the amendment be there. Otherwise, I have already voted in favour of the bill, although I do not agree with a number of things regarding the indications for the spa. [[11.50 hours]] Part of the things that return to the original regime, which the Ministry, where I was, prepared as a certain correction of things that came out of application practice, but not all the things that are now returning to the old regime, are dealing with the law. I would just like to finish by reading Article 13 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 under the Public Health Insurance Act, which states what is covered by public health insurance: If the performance corresponds to the health status of the insured person and the purpose to be achieved by the provision of it, and these benefits are reasonably safe for the insured person. No one at the spa is questioning safety. But the other two points say that the performances that are paid for must be consistent with the current available knowledge of medical science. And thirdly, there is evidence of their effectiveness due to the purpose of providing them. I would just like to remind myself that there are a number of important countries with a high-quality health system where the spa is not covered at all. There is certainly no way to talk about the fact that they are medical systems that are inferior, and it is more likely to be feared that, as after almost 20 years of use of the notice decree for the spa, the Constitutional Court has declared it unconstitutional despite all the experience it has had with it, there may be a situation where a law quoting some reimbursements of spa care can also be declared unconstitutional at this point. Thank you for your attention and I repeat that, despite all this, I will vote for the law at least in that part of the spa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u9	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. Mr. Rostislav Vyzula is performing. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Hello too, Senators. I would just like to mention a few words to the whole situation in such a way that we do not unnecessarily spread the panic that we are hurting the doctor. I'm a doctor myself, and I certainly wouldn't want our colleagues to be harmed. First of all, I am pleased that the Senate has dealt with this issue very thoroughly, and it is a demonstration of how the Senate should function as a certain insurance policy. No one here is questioning what the amendment to public health insurance says, this is a spa issue that we all want to support, but we are dealing with one supplement here. As has been said, the amendment has been discussed twice on the House's Health Committee, it has been returned twice, and only the third version presented by Mr Hovorka here seemed beneficial and we have therefore also voted in favour of it. I would just like to briefly summarize that you realize how the health facility is financed by contract, according to the contracts. It is, above all, a so-called framework contract, a five-year contract that a health facility has with an insurance company, where there is simply a framework information about what services the provider will provide. Then it's actually a contract under the payment order, which is issued every year to 1. 1. and it is basically a law whereby a health facility must be financed. And then it is these problematic and controversial individual payment additions. What's that? Firstly, these are contractual amendments, which are often signed only during a given year, that is to say in April, May, June, there are no exceptions to the fact that they are not signed until October, November. That in itself is wrong. That in itself is a mistake. The amendment should be agreed at the beginning of the year. Individual supplement. Why don't you... Why is it so late to be signed? It may be for various reasons, but of course, the idea is that a health facility or provider is waiting for an appropriate situation to occur that will allow him to sign a more advantageous contract for the performance or performance, or even performances that do not exist in the list of performances. The advantage will be that it will have a higher remuneration than competition for this performance. So he can wait on personal contacts for several months. What, then, will arise if Mr Hovorka's amendment is adopted? Certain contracts will be able to be published and certain contracts will not be published. And those that won't be published, that's the framework agreement, that's the payment add-ons under the payment order. There's no need to publish that. Then these are the payment additions so-called, which are predicted by a payment decree, these are different hybrids, which can only be published in part. So basically, only the individual payment additions will be published. And it was said here that the validity of such a contract would be based on publication. Not validity, but efficiency. I've learned that lawyers fundamentally distinguish between efficiency and effectiveness. So it will be effective when this contract is published. If this Treaty is published in April, does this mean that January, February, March will not be paid by doctors? No. It still works and there is a payment decree and will be paid under the payment decree. There was a good point that not all doctors are bad guys. I'm sure it is. And I believe that those contracts that will eventually have to be published will not be as much as we expect. Some claim that these are even three quarters of the contracts. On the other hand, I asked insurance companies, and they say it's between two and five percent. I don't know what the truth is, but we'll know if we accept this amendment. The Minister here says that we do not have to accept this amendment because the transparency amendment solves everything. But the amendment is only now in the legislative process of the government. When she comes to us, we don't know if we'll agree with her. We don't know if it'll contain what it should contain. It's supposed to work, or it's supposed to be effective from 1. 1. 2016, but this proposal addresses the situation now, from 1. 1. 2015. [[12.00 hours]] Yes, not all doctors are bad guys. But those who are villains, that year, they're gonna get more out of public money and they're gonna take advantage of the decent doctors. That is why we should apply to this proposal as we did at the first meeting at the third reading. I'd like to say who actually called. Who's heard from this proposal? It was a coalition of contractual doctors - specialists, Czech Medical Chamber. Any word from the big hospitals, the hospital associations? I haven't. I asked insurance companies whether they would have problems signing contracts on time, i.e. before the beginning of the year. Insurance companies don't have a problem with that. He'll make sure the course is properly carried out before the beginning of the year. So I'm convinced we won't damage most doctors. But I'm sure those who have made significant profits from the system won't like it. Thank you for your attention and I wish you all a wonderful Christmas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u11	I thank Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, with his speech in the third reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Senators, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, thank you for this discussion of the Senate law and its guarantee committees. I would like to say that I have carefully followed the debate in the Senate, and I have also taken up the Steno Protocol and, in principle, have noted several fundamental reservations about the amendment that has been approved in the Chamber of Deputies. The first one was that it was a sticker or, as Senator Žaloudík said here, an amendment. The second was that it was not properly discussed in the Health Committee and in the Chamber of Deputies that it was very urgent. Another reservation was that it would make it difficult for doctors, especially private doctors, and that the Ministry was preparing a much better, comprehensive amendment concerning transparency and the publication of contracts. The other reservation appeared rather in the media from Minister Němeček, that when this amendment was approved late, the right to receive spa care will be threatened. I would like to make a brief comment on this. Firstly, it is not an adhesive in the legislative sense, because it is an amendment to the existing law, although it is an indeterminate provision relating to spa. For your information, in 2007, the amendment was adopted quite extensive, which had twenty parties that did not pass the Health Committee at all, and which comprehensively changed the method of pricing and paying medicines. Part of this amendment was also a proposal which, in this section 17, which I, too, amend the amendment, stated that it is possible for health establishments to agree with health insurance companies by way of derogation from the payment decree. Today, the practice is that three quarters - three quarters - of payment arrangements between health insurance companies and health institutions are outside the scope of this payment decree. Then we can ask what the payment decree is for when only one quarter of the payments are made under the payment decree. Another thing is that the Ministry is preparing a comprehensive amendment. We were able to get acquainted with the first draft or the first version of it on the subcommittee for the economy in health, health insurance and pharmaceutical policy. There is indeed one paragraph that says that a health insurance undertaking will publish all contracts and additions. And then there's also a provision that if he doesn't do that, the health insurance company can get a fine between 0 and 10 miles. Crowns. All I want to say is that we know very well the case of the proton center, when one person, who was actually a forced insurance company manager, signed a contract for a future contract with a proton centre, which assumed a remuneration of 1 billion. crowns a year. Basically, if the structure was such that only the contract would be valid, but the insurance company would pay 10 million. CZK, so from this point of view it is a negligible fine. But if there was a condition for the effectiveness or validity of this contract, then there would be no arbitration and the future contract would automatically be void. But in general, there are a number of facilities, large health facilities, and both senators and the minister certainly know it well and securely where payment additions are within large amounts that exceed a fine of 10 million. Crowns. On the reservation of doctors and on the administrative complexity, I would like to say that the amendment was actually tabled in three variants. He gradually evolved as he was presented to the Health Committee and the Chamber of Deputies. In the first version we even suggested that individual additions to smaller practices, i.e. into a contractual relationship of 2 million. CZK with one insurance company did not have to be published. Unfortunately, this came across in the Health Committee's view that this was an inequality before the law. From this point of view, it was then in the conclusion that the health insurance undertaking was obliged to publish the payment supplement and subsequently through publication it became effective that the health insurance undertaking had to do so within 30 days. Here I would like to say that we also consulted the resulting amendment to the Ministry of Health legislation at the end, and there was a requirement that the validity of such an arrangement be changed to the effectiveness as it is in the final approved amendment, and the deadline changed from 15 days to 30 days. So we actually complied with the Ministry of Health legislation. On top of what was said here, I think the greatest concern that was in the medical public was that information was given that all payments received from health insurance companies would be made public. This has indeed caused great disgust and concern for doctors. Unfortunately, that is not the case. As Senator Žaloudík said here, it would be the publication of the non-standard remuneration or the deviant payment or the negotiation of a certain performance derogating from the payment order. Only this would be the subject of publication. And if it has brought any effect, I think the amendment has already brought an effect. It was not customary for some doctors to have payment supplements before the end of the year. And this year, practical doctors and practical doctors for children and adolescents were already given these payment supplements before the end of the year. Only when it comes to outpatient specialists, then I know they've been asked not to rush it, because there's plenty of time. So some positive developments have also brought about this amendment. And I think that this is really the way, as my previous speaker, Mr Heger, has said here, through Mr President, how we can get to the point that there will be unification of payments, that there will be no such significant differences between the remuneration of individual health establishments. I consider this to be the most valuable thing that this amendment can bring. To the law itself. I don't think it was absolutely necessary to translate the entire spa decree, the indication list, into the law. In my opinion, the Constitutional Court merely considered that there are no rules in the law to determine whether the specific spa treatment should be comprehensive or contributory, and that there are no clear parameters for whether it should be a stay of 14 days, 3 weeks, 4 weeks or more. [[12.10 hours]] So I think that there were fundamental reservations and they were enough to treat in this law, and otherwise the indication list itself could have stayed in the decree. The Ministry has decided to go this way. It is, of course, his business and the indication list will be in the annex to the law, but I would like to say that there is no threat to spa care. For these reasons, I would like to ask you to remain on the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u13	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr Igor Nykl, Mr Jiří Běhounek, will be prepared for the factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u14	Good morning. I respect Senator Žaloudík, by the way, we're seniors from the same high school, I'm very fond of reading his philosophical considerations. I'm not gonna agree with him this time. I say that, in simplicity, there is strength and beauty, and that is the strength and beauty of Mr Hovorka's proposal. And two. Better than nothing. He says in his articles that, unfortunately, there's so little that it's not worth it, let alone transparency through the crack. Essentially, we must realise how we pay for health care in the Czech Republic. It is either by individual contractual arrangements that have no rules or by payment decrees. The úhradový decree, as the Minister of Health himself said last week, is based essentially on the so-called DRG system, and he said it was built literally on housenumers. So the payment order doesn't work. It will take five years, according to the Minister, to remodel. So we have individual contractual arrangements, which are, of course, possible corruption, and we have a payment order that doesn't work. So let us be happy for each of these proposals - beware if it is in accordance with the legal order of the Czech Republic, and this is the proposal of Mr Hovorka. And we are not at all opposed to the fact that the Ministry will continue to work on its transparent law, but we have a unique chance to simply move forward after seven years, since Julínek and Šnajdr created the so-called corruption paragraph in 2007, our struggle for the transparency of the droplet further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr Jiří Běhounek, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u16	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I am very surprised to hear what we are all saying here. Mr Hovorka, with his stamina, of course, makes proposals, not once has it passed on the Health Committee, yet it has passed in the third reading. I just want to point out that those who make a living hoping that the publication of contracts will improve the issue of health funding and improve transparency in it are in grave error. I'm convinced, and let's all feel the heart of who we're moving in, that we're not telling each other the truth. Let's call it. And I strongly support Senator Žaloudík's position and the Minister's position, because there will be even more confusion. And let us remember that we have rejected many steps here that could have brought much better transparency. Merry Christmas, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u17	Thank you, Mr Běhounka. Now with a factual remark, the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček, then Mrs Langšádlová's factual comment. Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not comment on the debate, I have expressed my opinion. I just need to correct Mr Nykl's words, which have been said here. So the payment decree works, the DRG system only applies to bed care and it doesn't work, and that's why we pay on a flat-rate basis. So it certainly cannot be said that it is not possible to finance under the payment decree. It can be financed. You can't use the DRG system because the last garniture didn't do anything about it, and now we have to catch up. It's just to set some facts straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u19	Thank you, Minister. Now, Mrs Langšádlová, on a point of fact. I can't see it, but I had it electronically logged in, so I'm gonna erase it. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda on a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a very classic opinion. I am convinced that spa care is not what general insurance should pay. It is a care whose healing results are very debatable. I've said it repeatedly. It's not rehabilitation care, it's spa care, it's ensuring a pleasant stay. That's what I'm trying to say. As for the proposal that came back from the Senate, I consider this proposal to be better and more appropriate and we will vote for it because it actually removes the contractual problem that is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u21	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Yes. I'll ask the House for peace! The Minister's final word on paragraph 139. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I do not want to go into the details of which form of publication and transparency is better, but I would like to appeal to this Chamber of Deputies on one thing now. I think it is crucial that from 1 January the spa should have its indicative list, so that it does not occur that doctors are worried that there is some provisional, that there is no reason to indicate spa care, that they would stop indicating it, and that we risk tens of thousands of spa employees and tens of thousands of patients. I would like very much to support this, and I would ask you, this Chamber of Deputies, to amend Act No. 48, indication list of spa care, supported that we should not produce bad Christmas holidays for thousands and thousands of employees of the spa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-002-139.u23	Thank you, Minister. Final word, rapporteur? He doesn't. That is why we are going to vote. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. First, I'm gonna check you all out, I'm gonna ask for a new I.D. Please sign up with your cards. I will continue to ensure that all those who want to vote on this bill come to the House. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, according to House Press 307/3, as approved by the Senate, according to House Press 307/4.' We will decide in the voting order number 251 which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 251 of 165 for 92, against 55. The motion was accepted. [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the senators. I'm done with this point. At today's meeting, we had only these points firmly included. I have received a motion for a procedural resolution and I ask you to return to it. We have one reading, 33 first reading, one statute of the European Foundation, six international treaties at second reading, ten international agreements at first reading, one law at third reading and 27 unnegotiated reports. In view of the proposal I have received, there is a need to vote on the proposal to remove pending items from the approved agenda of the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[12.20 hours]] I will vote on this without debate in the number 252 vote, and I ask who is in favour of the elimination of unnegotiated points. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 252. Of the 167 present for 116, against 39, the proposal was accepted. With this decision, we have exhausted the approved agenda of the 23rd meeting, and I am ending this meeting. I wish everyone a nice Christmas holiday in peace and quiet and I look forward to meeting you in the new year 2015. Members of the Organizing Committee are not yet free. It means that in five minutes, at 12.26 p.m., the meeting of the Organizing Committee will begin. Thank you.
