ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 206/ - second reading We interrupted the item after the speech of the Chair of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Jiří Zlatuška - thank you for the peace - and after presenting his procedural proposal to interrupt this point by Thursday 17 July. [[speaks very slowly to draw attention to the noise in the hall]] The vote was not due to the request of the ANO and the Civic Democratic Party for a break at the club. The opinion of the legislative department that we requested as Members was distributed on Tuesday, 15 July to individual clubs. I ask now that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Marcel Chládek and the Chairman of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Jiří Zlatuška take the position of the rapporteur's chair. I am asking Mr Jiří Zlatuška if he wants to take back his proposal for an interruption or if we will vote on it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u2	Mr President, I take him back. We had a meeting on the committee yesterday -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u3	I'm sorry, I don't even understand the honourable Member. Quiet in the courtroom, please! We'll continue when it's quiet. And I believe it won't be seen as obstruction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u4	I take it back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u5	Thank you. The Chairman of the Committee shall withdraw his proposal. With another application, Mr. President of the Civic Democratic Party MP Zbyněk Stanjura signed up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am glad that the chairman of the committee has withdrawn the proposal, because when you read the opinion of the legislative department, and I respect it, he tells us that the old practice that has followed does not have to stick. In many other cases I can hear - that cannot be done because this has not happened here in 20 years. If we follow this legislative opinion of the legislative department, this means that we can do what we want with an emergency meeting programme and with a ranking of points. We can reschedule it with the Institute of Breaks, we can sort it out completely differently, and we can change it every day. I respect that. I'm just warning you. When someone first uses the procedure, they can't be surprised if someone uses it as a second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask now that the chairman of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Jiří Zlatuška, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u8	Hello, Mr President. I'm glad my colleague Stanjura is happy, and we can all be happy. Yesterday -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u9	I'm terribly sorry, but I really can't hear the Prime Minister. I'll ask everyone in the courtroom to keep their voice down. Looks like it was a hot summer night, but we're working now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u10	It is a law on pedagogical workers, so it is quite stylish that the chairman must behave a bit like a teacher of soothing disobedient pupils. We attended the committee's meeting on this matter yesterday, or it is fulfilled that the committee was sitting on it. I would state in this that as regards the draft amendment of the law on pedagogical workers and the amendment of certain laws as amended by other regulations, as the Minister said here yesterday, this is a solution to the problem that arose from the inactivity of past governments, virtually. the previous Ministers of Education since 2004, when the previous Act was adopted. There was a legislative provision that allowed unqualified workers to operate for a period of ten years. Originally it was five years, it was once extended to ten years, and that period will expire. As we have been informed, an analytical report has been drawn up on the basis of an extraordinary inquiry by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports about unqualified teacher teachers, which has shown that the situation is indeed very alarming. Among other things, the report shows that 50 percent, or almost half of those unqualified teachers have neither a university education, has only a secondary education. At the same time, this resulted in a large geographical imbalance of representation of these teachers. There are areas in which there are a large number of unqualified teachers, but elsewhere there are fresh graduates of teaching faculties who are in the register of employment offices as unemployed. However, it was not possible to find a simple way to deal with these remote imbalances here. From this came the proposal, which we have at second reading, which, on the one hand, assumes the waiver of some of the qualification provisions originally foreseen by law, and also addresses several things, I would say, of a practical nature, where experts especially in relation to artistic professions or artistic pedagogy plus the teaching of foreign languages in native speakers ensure in a way where it is not reasonable from the point of view of the Ministry of Education to prolong formal education. [[9.10 hours]] At yesterday's committee, we looked at the possibilities of how much discussion that took place at the meeting of the subcommittee on regional education entitles us to do so at this time with amendments to the government proposal. Motivation of why to change the government proposal in some way can be found in a very dramatic debate about whether this proposal changes or does not change the basic paradigm that has been established in the Czech Republic around teacher education. The state guarantees education. The state gives the conditions for what formal education teachers must undergo. In addition, we have compulsory school attendance, where parents send children to schools, and the state here guarantees a certain level of formality. [[There's a jamming debate on the benches.]] The debate surrounding the possible changes concerned, among other things, the extent to which the recognition of qualifications to the head of schools undermines this principle here. More or less, if I were to sum it up with a simple analogy, as was the case at the committee's meeting. It is a question of how satisfied we are in other areas, such as driving vehicles, we are satisfied that a person who knows how to drive a car may not have a driver's license, or how satisfied we would be that in a hospital the treatment will be used or the medications will be decided solely by the director in the sense that he will not notice clinical trials, he will not notice lege artis and will simply judge only from his own experience. The analogy would be "only 15 percent of our patients died," so this treatment, although generally considered charlatanism, is good. This is one of the positions that was actually discussed in the long debate. Just a passage between scylla's duration on strict requirements of the current law, where many teachers are not qualified, pupils are satisfied with them, school directors too, and there is no reasonable way to complete formal education, and charybda's partial dislodgement of the situation. I do not bring a resolution from this debate, it would not be possible for us to act, but I have a recommendation from the committee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u11	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Although we are dealing with unqualified pedagogical staff, I would like to point out to the honourable House that I am a qualified pedagogical worker. And if the House doesn't really quiet down, I'll proceed to the appointment of known jammers. It's a medieval method, but I assure you, it's still effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u12	Then it's no wonder you miss qualified teachers in schools. [[Smile.]] I come from the committee with a recommendation to support Mrs Berdychová's amendment to sign interpreters. It is a problem that is not solved in the original proposal. Although the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports had the view that it would be more appropriate to deal with this here in some other amendments, the horizon of the next two years clearly seemed insufficient for most members of the school committee, so this is the recommendation here. For other problems relating to material shortcomings in the proposal, the opinion prevailed that the promises of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, that some of these things will be dealt with in the upcoming school law or that these are things that can be solved at the level of the school inspection, that they are sufficient, so there is no recommendation to change anything else except the sign language. I would also like to say that, in the context of the process, I consider the problem of qualifications and the qualification of teachers to be a problem which clashes with the authorisation that is now in the Higher Education Act. Practically, the content of teacher education is determined by faculties that educate teachers. That is a total of fifty faculties in the Czech Republic. A in the Higher Education Act § 1 letter. (b) the exclusive right of a university to obtain adequate professional qualifications is provided for. From this point of view, I can say that it is a little unfortunate that this matter has not been dealt with as meritorarily as it would have been, with universities from the point of view of their material mission here. At the same time, we received comments from the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education to the amendment of the Act, where on points 3, 4, 7, 8 and 12 are comments which are - it is signed under the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education by Professor Trna 4. 7. 2014 - listed as unacceptable. From this point of view, the fact that the amendment is based on the consent of the teaching faculties cannot, unfortunately, be taken as true information. However, as I say, the committee's recommendation on this here is to be adopted in the text tabled and modified by Mrs Berdychová's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u13	I thank the President, who informed us of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. I now wanted to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Václav Horáček, but he is excused from today's meeting. I therefore ask if there is a member of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development who could give an opinion as rapporteur. He's Mr. Petrů. I will therefore formally ask the House to approve the amendment of the rapporteur from Mr Václav Horáček, who is absent, to Mr Petrů. I'm opening the vote on this. Whoever's the rapporteur for a change, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? 158 Members and Members are registered, for 128, against none. Thank you to the honourable House, we have changed the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, you have all received House press number 206/1. It is the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development number 50 of 25 June 2014 on the Government Bill amending Law No. 563/2004 Coll., on teaching staff and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended. This resolution was adopted by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 11th meeting following the reasoning of Dr Petr Mlsna, Deputy Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, and following the report by Mr Mgr Václav Horáček recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the number 206 in the submitted text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u15	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Petr Fiala, President of the Civic Democratic Party, first of all, came forward with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. On this amendment, I would like to make a few comments not only as a qualified educator, to whom I am, too, in favour of calming Mr President, but as the former Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u17	I have no doubt about you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u18	The submitted amendment addresses the problem of about six to eight percent of our teachers, who do not meet the necessary qualifications as prescribed by the law adopted by this House ten years ago, and therefore could not continue to teach. It is important to remember that these people have had more than ten years of time to prepare for and adapt to new conditions. In fact, we allow other exceptions to the exceptions proposed by the amendment, and the question is whether those concerned will believe that the state really means it this time, will begin to complete the necessary qualifications, or will rely again on the fact that, as many times before, they will be granted another exemption. And there is also the problem of those who believed that the state meant it, and often with great difficulty and at the expense of their family, they finished their qualifications. If the state behaves like this and we act like this repeatedly, we grant exceptions, we do not respect what we have approved ourselves, so let us not be surprised that citizens often do not trust the state. On the other hand, I understand and agree that the Ministry of Education is trying to address the situation of a lack of educators and wants the state to provide a good education service. That's okay, of course. Another question is whether the original intention adopted in 2004 was good at the time when the Ministry of Education administered the Social Democratic Party. It turns out that in terms of state and within the law, it is not possible to determine whether the teacher is good or bad, whether he has natural authority, the ability to impart knowledge, has a relationship with children. And since we're unable to establish it, we're resorting to formal criteria. To get out of this situation, it is not enough to accept this amendment, to solve the problem of six to eight percent of unqualified educators, but it is necessary to finally proceed to a systemic solution that will allow us not to judge teachers on the basis of formal criteria in the law. This solution is the introduction of a career system, a career order for teachers, so that teachers have real motivation to educate, grow, improve and specialize. Only in this way will we have in our hands a clear instrument that will give the educators confidence and make their profession more attractive and guarantee society that those who have something to offer our children will be taught. Finally, I would like to say that the Civil Democratic Party will not propose to reject this amendment at this stage, and we agree that it will continue to go on to its third reading and the House will deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u19	I thank the President of the Civic Democratic Party, whose pedagogical authority is obvious, because the House has really been very quiet. Thank you. The Minister of Education Marcel Chládek also signed up with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor. After him, the rapporteur, Jiří Zlatuška. [[The rapporteur is going to the speaker's desk.]] After him, please, the Minister, the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to shorten some other contributions by my speech, because yesterday there was a debate on the committee for about two and a half hours, and we finally found that the government proposal we have on the table was a really balanced compromise on which the experts on school legislation, who were cross-cutting, whether there is a left or a right, were working. It is really prepared to give a clear signal that the teacher has to complete his qualifications. The exceptions that are here are only made for a particular group of persons, for which it was recommended that, based on a debate with the professional public, not insist on qualification, because they already have the qualification obtained in another way. Since the law has been here for ten years and virtually no one has dealt with it, I agree that it can also be dealt with by a career order. For your information, he's in preparation for next year's piloting. At the same time, we agreed with the teaching faculties to extend their offer because it was found that in some localities and in some fields the offer was not sufficient. For example, there was a presentation study, there was no distance study, so he could not attend the educator who was in the educational process. At the same time, I would like to point out that the committee proposal was supported and recommended by an overwhelming majority of Members across the political spectrum, and all the other proposals that were there, in addition to the said proposal concerning the deaf - and there we were talking about the possibility of not putting it more into school law - so all the other proposals were supported with one voice. At the end of my speech, I would like to ask for a reduction in the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours because teachers must know what the resemblance will look like, and the directors are already building a schedule and since the effectiveness of the law is from 1. 1. 2015, but the school year is from 1. 9. this year, we are really very pressed for time and I will be very happy if we will be friendly not only from the coalition, but also from the opposition to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u21	Thank you, Minister. Another duly registered rapporteur is Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, followed by a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u22	Mr President, I am on what the President of the ODS said here about the time that was possible or could not be addressed in the Ministry of Education, I would like to stress that what had to be known was the fact that there were not enough qualified teachers and that there are many teaching that 50 percent of those unqualified or 47, who have only secondary education, is an alarming problem which is in sharp contrast with all the declarations about how the preparation of teachers should look. I agree that formal education may not be considered as the only criterion for assessing teachers, but that has been the case here ten years since 2004 in order for the previous ministers to address this and come up with an alternative concept to what the President of the ODS mentioned here as the proposal of the previous social democratic government. This didn't happen. And regardless of whether or not it was possible to solve the problem of unqualified teachers, at least those ministers and the Ministry of Education and previous governments should have worked to make a different concept here and not have to deal with it in 2014 during the extraordinary meeting during the holidays in the time pres, which was now mentioned in the immediately previous minister. This is a fundamental problem and it is a problem of how education is conceived, what guarantees the state gives parents, that it really cares about this, and to what extent not only teachers can rely on it, that the rules that are set for them are respected. I fully agree with the reservations of all those who have completed their formal education, and now they have colleagues with each other who do not have this here, and they will be forgiven. But at the same time, it's a de facto lack of interest to the previous department management to make this work conceptually. [[9.30 hours]] And one last small remark: The analysis does not show that all those unqualified are those who have been in school for ten years. At the moment you read it, there may be people who have been away from education for a while, returning, there is a clear criterion that concerns a single thing, and that is the total learned time, overall practice and their age at the moment of gaining efficiency, respectively. There's a date 1 right there. 1. 2015. Not all of those here today who criticize the use of this exception had to be constantly in schools for ten years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u23	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u24	I couldn't do it. I think we should use true arguments. The Minister has requested a reduction of the deadline to 48 hours. Why not? We're ready for this. But the reason isn't that it didn't make it to January 1st. Whether we're doing this this Friday or next Wednesday, it won't change anything about the term of this Senate law. If the minister said, "I'd like it to be over quickly on Friday," I understand, but it's not like there's any delay between Friday and Wednesday after January 1. I said it at first reading when we were having fun, and it doesn't matter which member of the Chamber of Deputies says it from which side. The question, people, unqualified teachers, they knew that for ten years. And even very qualified people here said, "What did the state do to make these people do what the law tells them to do?" I find that question completely inappropriate. We're supposed to ask these people why they didn't make it. Some may have objective reasons. I heard they didn't open the fields they needed, etc. But I don't think we can turn that question around - what he was doing standing up. We have to ask, if we want to ask, those people who didn't have a legal obligation, why they didn't do it. President Fiala rightly said that this is unfair to those who have fulfilled that obligation, they have completed their qualifications very often during employment, very often under difficult conditions. And I have to say that I've been approached recently by qualified teachers who don't have a job and write me e-mails, I'm sure they're calling you, too, and I'm saying don't allow it, because they have a legitimate feeling that if we don't extend the exception, they're gonna have a better chance of getting into school from the employment office. And we shouldn't forget that either. I know it's not quite easy, one for one, there are different qualifications and so on, but according to my information today, we have 5,000 qualified teachers at the employment offices, and by extending the exemption, we're not going to be able to help each other find a job.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u25	Thank you. With another factual remark, the rapporteur, Jiří Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u26	I would like to respond to Mr Stanjura. On the question of why ask what the state was doing, if it was clearly the problem of teachers, I would add that it was also the problem of their directors. Those who will have the authority to recognize those qualifications today. These were the same people who were supposed to impose on their employees to complete their education. But the question of why I said the state neglected something. Mr Stanjura will certainly understand the example of the traffic situation. The moment there's a crash on the highway and there's a calamity, the rules of road traffic apply. Everyone knows how to behave. Yet, at the moment when the police don't come and direct traffic, and they don't start to care that traffic towards the detour is in some way smooth, the calamity that will arise from the accident will be much worse than it will be for the foreseeable assistance of the one who watches over the traffic. And in this case, it's the same thing. There was a calamity, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is the authority, the ministry that is in charge of the education system, and the moment it did nothing, the equivalent of a blocked highway was made without traffic policemen helping to eliminate the calamity. This is a problem for which I claim that it is the mistake of previous ministers that they did not pursue this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u27	I thank the rapporteur and we come to proper applications. Mr Andrle joined the general debate first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u28	Mr President, honourable Members, yesterday I took the liberty of making an amendment to this amendment to the law, and the amendment was that I tried to delay this problem by two years with regard to the teachers concerned, who would lose their jobs, etc. There are a lot of other and other things that I have consulted with various experts, and I have been told, or we have come to the conclusion that this problem is not completed and that it is necessary to continue working on it. After yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Science, Education, Youth, Culture and Sports, I did a little bit to improve my opinion, given that we were informed by the Minister and the Headmistress Kácová and others about the situation that is being or is being prepared for this amendment, and Professor Zlatuška and Minister Chládek also informed you very well about these changes, and therefore I have no choice but to agree with these amendments, because I believe that it will benefit those affected in quotation marks because they have a slightly softened law or amendment, so that it will also benefit those who do not have education or qualifications to complement it. That is why I am withdrawing my amendment to postpone the amendment by two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u29	I thank Mr Andrle. With another proper application, Mr Jan Zahradník is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u30	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to comment on this proposal from the point of view of my pedagogical experience. I was a high school teacher for 20 years, and then for eight years I was also a director of a bilingual grammar school, and I know that school is a very diverse environment, inspiring, which is its main mission. In this environment they have a place of school established by municipalities, of course schools established by the regions, schools established by the state, in which they also have a place of private schools, religious schools. Of course, I know that from a long time ago, the main requirement for being a teacher was qualifications, that is, education. It's a teacher's education. I must say that in the schools where I was, this request has always been 100% taken into account. Nevertheless, I also know that in this diverse environment there may be teachers who have excellent qualifications in the field, but who lack the qualifications of teacher, pedagogical. Therefore, I support a certain percentage of the exceptions to my experience. However, I would like to focus on another part of the law, and that part concerns the employment classification of the tutor. In particular, Section 16 of this Act, where in its paragraph 2, which deals with the required education of tutors who directly perform pedagogical activities, i.e. also in educational establishments for the performance of institutional education or protective education, which is a segment of educational care regulated by Act 109, and in this Act 109 there are described different types of care, diagnostic institute, educational institution, children's home, or children's home with a school. In particular, I would like to address the children's home, namely the type of device that governs Section 12 of Law 109. [[9.40 hours]] This section says that a child's home cares for children according to their individual needs, especially in relation to children performing educational, educational and social tasks. The purpose of a child's home is to provide care for children with prescribed constitutional education that do not have serious behavioral disorders. These children are educated in schools that are not part of a child's home. Children can usually be placed in a children's home from three to a maximum of 18 years of age. Minor mothers and their children are also placed in a children's home. Which is therefore the type that is included in the other educational institution for the performance of institutional education or protective education. These tutors are required either to receive higher education in an accredited study programme, that is to say (a), and (b) to undergo higher vocational education, or (c) to receive secondary education pedagogical and to supplement their education in the form of lifelong education at a university. And I would like to address the fact that I would like to make an amendment that would reduce this rigor a little bit. I consulted this proposal with the Association of Replacement Education, an institution that brings together 100 representatives of institutions for the performance of institutional education - it is a association under the new Civil Code. This association cooperates with all bodies in the education sector functioning, including the Ministry of Education. The aim of my proposal is that only secondary education of the pedagogical type, i.e. education that can be obtained at a secondary school of such a type that we South Bohemia know well for example. as a secondary teaching school in Prachatice. Why am I doing this? Why can't I be satisfied that such an educated teacher can complete his qualifications with lifelong learning? Imagine a governess aged between 50 and 60 who raised in a children's home, where most of her life is active, a number of people who had been through her hands since childhood, went to life at 18 years of age, went to school, and she and her coworkers replaced their family, which they did not have for some reason. This lady should therefore continue her work now, to complete the lifelong education at the Faculty of Education. I don't think it's necessary to push her like this and to allow her education to be sufficient. I have brought this proposal into the system as House document 1092, and when the detailed debate is opened, I will allow myself to sign up to this proposal. I don't think it's such a big change. It's nothing systemic, nothing that interferes with the structure of the law, and that's why I took the liberty of making my proposal in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u31	I thank Mr Zahradník. With another proper application, Mrs Martina Berdychová is registered. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am coming up with an amendment, at the initiative of the Association of Deaf ASNEP. It is not, as the Minister has already mentioned here, the issue for which the amendment to the Education Worker Act is being presented here is completely unrelated, but it is related to the Education Worker Act. I come up with this because the issue of deaf people is constantly being postponed. The Ministry hasn't dealt with it in the long run, and the deaf always get the answer: wait until there's a new law, wait until the law on teaching workers opens. They were also not included in the external commentary procedure, which is why we are de facto coming up with this proposal at the last minute. The deaf people's education system in our Republic has almost changed since the 1990s, and it is a poor and inadequate system. The deaf children are isolated from normal life, taught by people who do not understand and educate them in their mother tongue. Quality translator of Czech sign language is missing. The interpreter, he is an intermediary, is fully involved in the pedagogical process and without an interpreter of sign language it is not possible to perform his own pedagogical activity at all. The aim of our society should be to integrate children, not to isolate them from normal life. They should be independent personalities, and education should certainly help them to do so. The current education system, however, does not fully manage this function. The amendment therefore introduces a new category of pedagogical worker, an interpreter of the Czech sign language, and also specifies the requirements for his professional qualifications. I have divided the amendment into four points. The first and third points relate directly to an interpreter of the Czech sign language, because, in the current wording of the law, interpreters are incoherently led in schools either as non-teaching workers or as pedagogical workers, as assistants of the teacher. However, both of these variants prove to be completely inoperative in practice. In cases where sign language interpreters are led as non-teaching workers, this does not qualify for financial remuneration and their own work. The management of interpreters as an assistant teacher is also inappropriate, given the different tasks of work and the non-systemic requirements for prescribed necessary pedagogical training. Sign language interpreters are educated in specialized trade unions related to interpretation in the school environment. Claims for completion of the standard pedagogical education required for teaching assistants are not effective for them. They need to be educated in what they need to do their job. It is therefore proposed to introduce a new category of sign language interpreter. The amendment also concerns the acquisition of the professional qualifications of teaching staff. In practice, it has been shown that it is not necessary for only someone with special pedagogical education to teach in schools and classrooms set up for pupils with auditory disabilities. On the contrary, graduates of special pedagogy often do not understand sign language. The character language is not a mandatory part of their special educational education, and children often fail to understand. At the same time, these educators do not have any application which is appropriate in schools for hearing-based people who are educated according to the framework education plan and at the middle level of education. Therefore, special educators could face the problem of not reaching agreement with children, while at the second grade of primary school and in secondary schools they would not have sufficient qualifications with the exception of a specific subject of expertise. Yet, according to the current wording of the law, they are the only ones who can learn children with hearing disabilities. The required qualifications are designed to be supplemented by other appropriate vocational training which will enable the school director to receive, according to special circumstances, a qualified teacher who is not a graduate of a special pedagogy but another appropriate related field, while having other skills that guarantee the ability to work with children with different needs. [[9.50 hours]] The last point of the amendment concerns common provisions on professional qualifications. The current regulation does not ensure the real control of the necessary communication system for teachers. According to current legislation, it is not necessary to demonstrate that the teacher actually controls the communication system, but only that, for example, it is not necessary to demonstrate that the teacher actually controls the communication system. has completed a short-term course of any communication system. Furthermore, the law does not provide sufficient guarantees at present against the situation that the teacher communicates with the children in an hour with a system that is not suitable for the child or which the child does not understand. According to information from the Office of the Public Protector of Rights, I know that there is currently an investigation into suspicion of discrimination against pupils with auditory disabilities in access to education. One aspect is the provision of an interpreter of Czech sign language. Moreover, the status of interpreter is not yet sufficiently legally anchored. At the same time, the involvement of a sign language interpreter in education is a key approximation within the meaning of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to which the Czech Republic applied in 2007. The Czech Republic undertakes, among other things, to make it possible to acquire practical and social skills that would ensure full and equal participation in the education system and in society's life, i.e. to study sign language and support the language identity of the deaf community. The deaf have the right - they have the right to education in their native mother tongue and that is the sign language for them. The 2010 Brussels Declaration, which is an important document for the recognition of sign language in Europe, says that sign language is a full language with its own grammar and sentence composition as spoken languages. Each Sign Language User must have the right to use his native Sign Language without restriction or discrimination. Communication in the native language, i.e. the sign language, and its use is a fundamental human right. That is why this submitted amendment. We, too, discussed this amendment at the Ministry of Education, where we were offered an amendment to the school law to resolve this situation. I am not fully convinced of this, because the amendment to the School Act in Section 16 newly includes support measures for the education of disabled people, introduces a sign language interpreter, which is of course a good thing, but does not address the qualification of a sign language interpreter. However, a quality interpreter is necessary and is currently lacking in many places. Therefore, let us not be deaf to the problems of the deaf and listen to them. The deaf can't scream, they can't hear, they can't see, because we don't want to hear them and we don't solve their problems. The proposed amendment is one of the few steps to address their isolation. And I thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u33	Thank you, Mrs Berdychová. With another application with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u34	I would like to support Mrs Berdychová with one more argument. In addition to the general arguments that result from citizens' rights, I would add a prosaic thing that, at a time when deaf people communicate with sign language and society do not have a sufficiently qualified structure to really understand that language, it is in fact a barrier to accessing education. When I set up a student support centre with specific demands at the university a long time ago, especially deaf university students found themselves in a very absurd situation because, as we are used to caring for the blind, we are used to needing some special means of communication, etc., and around deaf people in the education system alone, the infrastructure is not built up in access to education, and if we look at it strictly economically, then at a time when we do not give people the opportunity to get to the qualifications that enable them to apply in their lives, it also bears the unnegligible financial costs of society. This is another aspect that I would recommend to consider, and I highly recommend that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u35	Thank you to the rapporteur. With another proper application, Mr František Vácha is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to make a few notes first on the procedural matters in the House. I find it very unfortunate to convene a committee so late. I just can't. It is not possible for the Organising Committee to put an item on the agenda that has not yet been discussed in the committees. It's happened several times. I think we should think about changing the Rules of Procedure. There is no way that an item could be discussed and then a committee was convened. It is not possible for us to receive amendments during the meeting and we had a committee right after the meeting. This means that when we work at a meeting, I do not have time to read the amendments, I will come to the committee and I will discuss them and vote on them. It's just not possible. On that committee we saw a certain one - I have long sought a word to use, I do not want to use the word split, but I finally chose the word no deal, I mean no deal in coalition. It would be good if the coalition, first of all, agreed on a uniform version of the law and we did not lose time, perhaps sometimes by embarrassing situations during the negotiations of our committee. Now, about the law. I am, of course, an opposition member, but I have decided to support this law because education should be political and we should make decisions according to our promise. We heard a promise here yesterday, which means according to our best knowledge and conscience. I was skeptical at the beginning of the draft, the government's draft of this law, but I have to say that after the speech of the director of the legislative department, after she showed her erudica, after she demonstrated that she understood the problem, after we were warned that making or writing school laws was a very specific discipline, so I decided to support this law. I would like to draw the attention of the House, as has been said here in several speeches before me, that this is not an exception to the exceptions, it is not a breach of the original law. The Minister has already mentioned this - it is basically just four groups that will be exempted. These groups are native speakers, without whom the teaching of foreign languages at our schools simply cannot be done. They're practical experts. If you imagine that the bank manager is willing to teach an hour at economic school, he won't be willing to do any more pedagogical minimum. They're coaches. Once again a coach, a football coach who, when he decides to teach at school, also does not do any pedagogical minimum. And they're artists. There's a similar situation. [[10.00 hours]] Another thing that the Minister stressed and convinced me is that there will be one exception, and these are unqualified pedagogical workers over 55 years of age. Because if they started to do lifelong education, they started to do the pedagogical minimum, they'd end up retired somewhere, or just before retirement. With them, there's no point in finishing the pedagogical minimum. What is important in this law, and I think that it is very important for a right-wing Member or right-wing citizen, is the fact that we rely on high school directors, we rely on their judgment that he will take high-quality teachers and, of course, control the school board, inspection and founder. So I decided to support this law, and I recommended it to the members of our club and, of course, I will also support the shortening of the deadline proposed by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u37	Thank you, Mr Vách. With Mrs Nina Nováková's point of view. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also one of those who have decided to encourage him to go further through the bill. But there are a few things that lead me to do it. First of all, there is no new law. When we heard from the previous speaker commendation on the work of the principal at the Ministry of Education, it's not something new. This worker worked there before. So basically, from my point of view, it goes on, what should have come into force on January 2015. That means we don't recognize the qualifications of someone who isn't qualified. I would point out that we don't even recognize her for those who are over 55 years old. We don't just exclude them from the teaching process, but the director has the right to replace them with someone more qualified if they don't continue to study. So I support it because it is actually with cosmetic modifications, and it is intelligent, e.g. The requirement of small-time experts in schools is the requirement of our high school students. They want a lawyer to come in, but a craftsman to come in. And, of course, he's not going to be teaching school. It is therefore the same and I do not see cosmetic modifications as negative, it is not contrary to what TOP 09 wants, it means, we do not discount the demands of teaching staff in schools to be as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u39	Thank you, Mrs Nováková. With another proper application, Mrs Marta Semelová is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u40	Mr President, colleagues, I think we all wish we had a quality education system secured by qualified educators. However, it is necessary to respond to reality. The situation is that there are a number of unqualified people in schools who should leave school as of 1 January 2015. We must also realise that there are around 650 schools with more than 50 percent of unqualified educators. Which, of course, would cause a big problem if all these cantors had to leave the school. Yes, I agree that they had ten years to complete their education. They did not complete it for various reasons - subjective and objective. Some just didn't want to. Some wanted to study, but the field wasn't open. There were organizational problems in schools, etc., and I don't want to discuss it and delay it. However, I do not think it would be right for us to constantly postpone this law. We've been pushing him off for ten years, and there's something we need to accept. Because if there's another move, it won't force the teachers I'm talking about to enter further education at all. Otherwise, of course, the law is not ideal. Some also ask - some groups ask to tighten the conditions. Others, on the other hand, ask for further relaxation. However, it is a compromise, and it has already been said here, which provides for some exceptions. This means that it does not generally reduce qualification, it does not generally lower the standard that we put on the qualification and application of teachers. At the same time, it should also be part of other laws, whether they relate to the reform of regional education funding or the school law, where there should be a register of teachers, which I consider very much necessary to know what qualification is in different regions, what is needed, etc. I think that over the years, the cantors deserve to thank whether they're qualified or unqualified, because the unqualified are often very high-quality and what they've been through, all those experiments on pupils, teachers, the school system that they've had to handle, so I think they deserve respect and recognition. However, I do not want to question the fact that they should not have the necessary education. I would like to say that we will support the law. We also support shortening the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours. But at the same time, we think it is necessary to take further steps to attract teachers to schools. We know that many graduates do not enter or leave schools from the faculty of education or from other teaching disciplines of higher education. So we should definitely be dealing with this, including the fact that the 6,000 teachers who are at the employment office, and here it was said that they could take the place of the unqualified, here's the problem, how many times doesn't account for and or are in a region other than where they're needed with that commitment. How they are to ensure this - the apartment is hard to get there, to commute, because other family members will not get the job there either. So they're bringing teachers to schools from faculties, qualified, and I see one of the major recipes for bringing them in, just the cantors to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u41	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. With another proper application, Mr Petr Bendl is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was motivated by this speech to discuss this legal standard on the Public Administration Committee, where I tried, I will say, to ask questions to the petitioner, who was more concerned with the view of the founder, rather than the view of the mayor and representatives of the municipality, which concerns competence and teaching work at all as such. Because even this is a look that needs to be paid attention to. Several questions were raised during the debate. Among other things, we also discussed the issue of financial cover, let me say, the wages of those who sub for those who are learning. People who are in the Chamber of Deputies and have experience in school management say that it is quite objectively true that they did not always have enough funds to provide qualified instruction at a time when people who were not qualified and would like to complete it would have to be out and should have the right of law, let's say, to qualify. And it wasn't always objectively possible. Therefore, my question to the Minister of Education is whether he is aware of this and whether this situation will not happen again. Because it's a good thing that we're going towards opening up new fields of study, that we're just going to create the conditions for people to be able to quickly qualify in the fields where development is moving forward, and our teachers have this chance. At the same time, it should not happen that there will be an objective reason for the headmaster of the school, because he would not be able to provide teaching at the moment when he will be qualified by some cantors. That is a question for the Minister of Education whether he is aware of this and whether he is prepared to do something about it. [[10.10 hours]] And the second thing we talked about was the use of existing experts, where the director may not have had a chance to get a qualified expert in education, but he had an expert in practice and was able to use it, and there was no one on the labour market who would still have a pedagogical education for this. The moment the director finds such a person, he is certainly well and in favour of the quality of teaching to engage in the trial and to work at the school. But then I would also like to hear - I think that those who have worked at that school for a very long time and can be 49 and a half will not be 50, they should be treated politely so that the financial award will simply correspond to some, I'll say, higher standard, if possible. Whether the Minister of Education is also counting on it. Otherwise, I support what Mr. Zahradník here said, some exceptions. Because there are fields in business, business, in the field of new technologies, IT technologies that go very quickly forward, and even if we have qualified people in this area and, for example, university-educated, it is often in two years that some areas move so far forward that we are not able to ensure the full development of education. And in the field of practical teaching, it might be worth turning a blind eye to that, I'll say, teaching skills and wanting professional qualifications. Sometimes it just doesn't pay the experts to go back to teaching, because they're better paid to do what they work for. And this clash, where we're looking for qualified experts, needs to be captured for the sake of the quality of teaching. And then I wanted to say one last point that I very much support Mrs Berdychová's amendment, which improves access to the education of deaf people, etc. I think that this is the right way and that it is not necessary to wait for the amendment to the school law, that we can deal with it now, and then possibly the amendment to the school law to resolve the problem definitively. But if we have a chance to do something for the deaf, let's do it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u43	I thank Mr Bendl. Furthermore, with priority rights, the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I will allow myself briefly to answer Mr Bendl's questions. This was one of the reasons why teachers mentioned that they were not qualified, that they were not able to find an offer at some decent distance that would be a distance form. And the principal couldn't release them - either he didn't have subs for them, or it was otherwise complicated. That is why we agreed with the teaching faculties that they would open their branches even in the outermost regions, and at the same time there will be a wider offer of distance education so that a teacher could be included without having to sub for it. We have just discussed your experts on the fourth point, precisely because we also think it would be wrong to force an expert, who needs to be somewhere an economic director, to go to a secondary vocational school to teach two or four hours, into another teaching qualification. That's why we gave him this exception, that if he's part-time, he has the opportunity to teach without being forced into the next qualification. I completely agree that the teacher should continue to be educated. He is counting on the career order that some Members have already mentioned. At the same time, the qualifications and further education must be not only in the pedagogical part, but also in the vocational part, of course. There must be further deepening, because it would be difficult to justify that a teacher does not introduce students or students to the new knowledge that they have in the field. So, of course, we're counting on it, and we think it's crucial even in the career order. It's conditional on the next step. So that's what it's all about. If in short, that's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u45	I thank the Minister for his quick response. With another proper application, Mr Petr Kořenek is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u46	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I was a participant in the joint meeting of the subcommittee on pre-school, primary, secondary and higher vocational education, where there was a detailed debate involving both representatives of teaching faculties and the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Towns and Municipalities, representatives of the Czech Moravian Union of Workers in Education and other representatives, where the issue of this amendment was discussed very closely. For me, there have been some fundamental things. Everyone has agreed that it is not possible to give way to teacher education requirements for one simple reason. I think we're all constantly talking about education and prestige as a teacher. Basically, we trust teachers with the most valuable things we have, and they're our children. The fact is that the situation is not only caused by the teachers themselves, but I think that it is a bit of a blame to stand up, rather college and a little bit of a teacher, because it cannot be said in one sentence - yes, we will reduce the funds for the schools, and on the other - send teachers to education and enable them to be educated. Schools are faced, and eventually directors, with big problems. They don't have anything to buy supplies for, they don't basically have to do things they have to do by law. On the other hand, they must pay 200 percent for absent teachers. a countless hour. So all of this drives schools and teachers themselves into almost unsolvable situations. Therefore, from this point of view, of course, this situation needs to be resolved so that we do not put the director in another difficult situation where he has to consciously break the law to ensure that he is taught. Besides, of course, even if we take into account that we have qualified teachers, we are able to provide teaching, so we also have small-class schools. Example: We have a educator of a school group who has a full-time of 0.7, and the school principal has a full-time of 0.2 or 0.1 courses. Tell me how this director is supposed to provide a fully qualified educator in accordance with Law 563 so that he can teach him. That would take five or six schools to fill his time. That's also unrealistic. So there are a lot of things that this amendment will, of course, sort out. Even as CEOs, I'd like to say that directors need clear and timely rules. And of course, this is where the time is played very strongly, because at this time most directors already have their schedules drawn up, at least their shots, will be tuned in August. In my own experience, I know exactly how I reacted when the ministerial order or some legislative regulation came in at a time when I had everything ready. Do not wish to hear what has been said. From this point of view, because of course I have received a lot of comments, topics that should be worked out, how social educators, interpreters should be introduced into the law, but then we would have to change the whole system of education, determine what positions, why we need them. There are special educators, psychologists, in the Education Worker Act today. And please, if we didn't get the money on them in those normals, we could never establish that function. So basically, we'd just play something again. Today, in the context of current legislation, the majority of things are solvable, of course, but it will always depend on the amount of funds available to the Director. [[10.20 hours]] I would also like to point out that things are constantly evolving and, of course, laws cannot be permanent in the way they were approved 10-15 years ago, and they will need to be amended, to respond to the present. Therefore - and I will repeat what I have also said on the subcommittee and on the committee - I support the current government amendment in this form, because, as we know from the past, every intervention, albeit well-meaning, but unthought-out, breaks down what has been set up, interferes with the ideas of the translator and then the consequences that will occur must be dealt with by the terrain. Let's not put the terrain in more trouble than it's supposed to. And I dare say what I also said on the committee yesterday, even though it didn't trigger a negative or positive reaction. You know, our teachers can handle different situations, different laws, and they have to deal with them because they respond to the everyday needs of their pupils. And it didn't matter who sits in this Chamber of Deputies and who sits in the Ministry of Education. Because they have to solve their problems on their own. So let us not make this difficult for them and set them such conditions that our education works and that the proper financial framework should also be created for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u47	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. With the last proper application to the general debate, Mr Adolf Beznoska is still on the list. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u48	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There's been a lot of readings in those two. I'll just add a little bit of insight. First thing. I never thought I'd agree with Mrs Semelová on this microphone, but I agree. The key to the whole debate is to pay the cantors properly. Nothing else will ever work. We're still gonna drown here and look for word-telling to ensure proper teaching at our schools. We all say how important children are to us, and we're all looking for some kind of hobby, and we're going to join it, too, because we're going to agree to make it possible for the unqualified to work. I understand very well that we have about 8300 fully counted posts, which are not occupied by qualified cantors. Zbyněk Stanjura listed the number of 5,000 qualified teachers outside of work. The reason isn't that they don't want to do it, it's because they're not properly paid. kantořina, if paid well, becomes the first choice. It will become a professional objective for these people, and education will sort it out on its own. The question is, what were the directors doing at the age of ten? And especially the directors who work in the school for a long time. I was once the head of a business academy, a higher vocational school and a state language school, a pier, 73 cantors, and then some other staff, and I had unqualified only native speakers. It's just because I told those teachers that if you want to keep working here, you're just gonna have to complete your education. There's no other way than a little punch. I understand that there are four groups here. I can imagine a native speaker, that's very good, an artist. Of course, I have a little problem with the experts, because I was taught by experts in higher education. I shouldn't have said it, but it was the director, and there was talk about it, insurance companies, banks, etc., but the key in school isn't what you have in mind, what you know in your profession, but also how you can pass it on. And at the moment that we're cursing ourselves to the experts, we're not saying that it must be a good cantor. I guess we all have to realize that at this point too. So I'd be careful about this. Yet, of course, we will confirm the law in this form, however it does not solve anything at all. Because there's a phrase that the director can use unqualified cantors if necessary for an absolutely long time. And every director who's comfortable and wants to make it easier in his own decision-making, he just hides behind it. It's more like a quick question - I think we understand each other. Money is the key. A brief question for the Minister. Minister, only if you have the numbers or if you have the numbers. Now we have very strong grades in kindergarten. We've got a bunch of extra kids coming to primary school. And so I wanted to ask if we have exactly the qualifying structure of the first grade of primary school mapped out, or how many jobs we will probably miss in the next two, three, four years and how ready we are for it. And the last short remark. I think my colleague Bendl's very good question was whether or not we were prepared for this at least. If there's no trouble with education being strangled as usual. You said you didn't, so I'd like you to confirm that for me as an ex-cantor and probably even a future cantor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u49	Thank you, Mr Beznosk. The Minister Marcel Chládek is going to answer another registered priority. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u50	Thank you, Mr President. The numbers are also listed in the proposal. When you look in detail at the table, you even have it layered not only in regions and districts, but even in areas, if it is 1st degree, II. degree or secondary school, with the fact that of course the numbers change over time, because to fulfill the law it is enough to enter the education. So we've created the conditions for this, we've increased the faculty's budget by 23 miles. CZK to open more courses so that more educators can sign up. Of course, I agree that this is all about money. We now have two billion extra in the draft budget for teachers' salaries and one billion, which is about increasing the number of pupils to kindergartens and primary schools. But, of course, I do not mind at all when the Chamber of Deputies proposes yet another increase in the Czech education budget, and I will be only happy. So I'll welcome it when the budget goes up another five billion across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u51	Thank you. With another proper application - please, Congressman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u52	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Government. I'll be very brief. I've re-listened the law on the qualification of teaching staff. The explanatory memorandum, which is presented here today to this law, states that roughly, if I remember correctly, about 8.5 percent of teachers are unedagogical. I would have a question for the Minister, and since I have not been in school for six years now, whether this law on pedagogical workers, on their qualifications, will be adapted in some way, because I have re-listed when, for example, a teacher is qualified for the first degree, kindergarten or II. degrees and so on. So qualification for I. degree is a teacher who graduated from a teaching school with a focus on I. degree. This means that a teacher who graduated from university teaching with a focus on II. degree, not qualified. Unless I'm wrong, unless there's been an amendment. That's why I'd ask the Minister if he can explain this to me. If it has not occurred, I think there should be an amendment to this law, because a number of problems where a teacher is currently not qualified would be eliminated. Personally, I don't think a teacher who is qualified for high school, for example, could teach at II. degree of primary school of physics and so on. I just said physics, but I think in general any other subject. So that's my question, and I really think that a whole range of unqualified teachers would suddenly become a qualified teacher and this problem would fall away from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u53	I thank Mr Novotný. With another priority right, Mr. Minister, who obviously didn't know he was going to interpel tonight. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Well, yes, it is, because if you remember, I specifically spoke about this case at first reading, that an unqualified educator does not necessarily mean that he is a high school student. He even has a high school, even a high school pedagogical focus. But since he's at a different level and he's teaching at a different level, he's considered unqualified for that grade. However, we are preparing, according to the legislative plan, another amendment to the law on pedagogical workers, which should, I suspect, in a year and something to see the light of day, where other comments from practice will be reflected, because of course the comments that are there, so the teacher at II. the degree cannot have sufficient qualification for I. degree, therefore it has to complete some specialization course etc. So this is in the solution, and in a year and a few months, there should be another amendment. This amendment only addresses the problem of unqualified workers from 1. 1. 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u55	I thank the Minister and ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. If no one signs up for the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I do not have a registered bill to return the law to committees for discussion, so I am opening a detailed debate to which Mr Jan zahradník is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u56	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for an amendment which has been introduced into the system as House document 1092 and which consists of a simple adaptation: In Section 16 paragraph 2 add a new point (d) after point (c), as follows: "the training provided for the tutors under paragraph 1 (f) and (g). This applies only to a tutor who performs direct pedagogical activities in a child's home." [[§ 12 of Act 109/2002 Coll., as amended]] Thank you for your attention and I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u57	Thank you. Mrs Berdychová is another party to the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for an amendment which has been introduced into the system under the number 1090 and addresses the problem of an interpreter of the Czech Sign Language and the education of the deaf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u59	Thank you. At this point, I am not seeing anyone enrolled in the detailed debate, in which case I am ending the detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška? No. Neither does the Minister. Okay. I have here a proposal to shorten the discussion to a maximum of 48 hours, so we would vote on this proposal. I'll check you all out at the beginning, colleagues and colleagues, and I'll ask you to rejoin the system. Thank you. I am now opening the vote and asking who is in favour of shortening the deadline for 3rd reading to 48 hours. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 8, there are 129 Members present, 113 for this proposal. The motion was accepted. At this point, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I have Mr. Sklenák's priority right here, so you have the floor, Mr. Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At this point, I would like to make a procedural proposal on behalf of two members of Parliament - social democracy and YES - to negotiate today, and to vote in terms of territorial and procedural terms on all proposals even after the 19th and the 21st hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-001-005.u61	Okay, thank you. As this is a procedural proposal, I shall put it to the vote immediately. Anyway, I would like to ask - I have here with a factual remark registered by Minister Zaorálek. [[Wrong.]] You don't have an actual comment. No. So I'm going to erase it. At this point, I am opening the vote as presented here, which means that we should act and vote after 19 and 21 hours. (Vote number 9.) Who's in favour of a proposal like this? Who's against it? [[Member Zavadil gestures that he can't log in.]] I apologise, fellow Members, but I have called into question the vote that the vote is not working, so I declare the vote confusing. I'm sorry, I'm going to sign you all off one more time, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. I ask if we can proceed to the vote. Mr. Zavadil has a problem with his card, so I'm going to ask you to be patient for a moment. Ambassador Zavadil, shall we? Just a moment, okay? I think the solution will be if you go get a spare card and try a spare card to make it work. Nobody else records the problem with the voting card? It's not like that. I'm glad for myself! [[Messenger. He's already got a vote.]] Excellent, the problem has been solved, so thank you. At this point, I repeat the vote and initiate it. It is voting number 10 with the House of Deputies acting and voting after 19 and 21 o'clock. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? I'm done voting number 10. There are 154 Members present, 111 Members for this proposal. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Thank you. Initiating item number
