ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u1	40. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on the amendment of certain related laws (budgetary rules), as amended (the German press 295/ - first reading) I ask, under the authority of the Government, that the proposal put forward by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the main two changes that the proposed law brings to budgetary rules are, firstly, the strengthening of the role of subsidy providers in identifying the irregularities committed by their beneficiaries during or in connection with their use, and in correcting these irregularities and penalising them, and secondly, the authorisation of the Ministry of Finance to issue government bonds to cover the budgetary deficit of the state budget and to repay the principals of the state debt. Strengthening the role of subsidy providers will help to resolve errors more quickly in the subsidy process and abuse of subsidies, in particular subsidies containing funds from the EU budget, and thus to improve the smoothness of their drawdown. With regard to government bonds, the laws on the issue of bonds to cover the budgetary deficit of the State budget represent a duplication in law, because the authorisation to issue them always contains the relevant law on the State budget. The authorisation to issue bonds to cover the principal payments may not always be given by a special law, since, in the continuous deficit of the State budget, the principal cannot be otherwise paid and the issue of bonds to cover the principal does not increase the state debt. The draft amendment contains further amendments, such as a clarification of the definition of the concept of state financial assets and liabilities, a new definition of funds from the budget of the European Union following the new Union legislation in this area, simplification for legal aid applicants, who will no longer have to report only theoretically occurring final beneficiaries, which can practically not be legally defined. Furthermore, the possibility of using the Ministry of Finance's foreign exchange accounts for budgetary expenditure so that the conversion of the koruna would not be necessary if it were disadvantageous. Do not deposit contributions for breach of budgetary discipline into thousands of crowns and some others. The proposal for an amendment brings about changes which do not fundamentally change the state's current financial management system, but should lead to a more rational functioning. In a detailed debate, a proposal will be tabled to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u3	I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Roman Kubíček to introduce us to his news report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u4	Hello, Mr President, honourable members of the government, and ladies and gentlemen. The Minister of Finance submitted a comprehensive proposal for printing 295 amendments to Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws. I would just add that the current legislation contains different provisions for subsidies granted from the state budget which are not co-financed from the EU budget and for the same subsidies co-financed from the EU budget. In the present legislation, the subsidy provider is not allowed to request the recipient to repay the subsidy or part of it if the provider considers that the rules on the management of the subsidy have been infringed. As regards the reduced contribution for breach of budgetary discipline, it is proposed that, in addition to the percentage margin, the State Budget subsidy provider may also set a reduced contribution at a fixed percentage rate. The need for this adjustment is based on EU documents which, in some cases, account for a fixed percentage, which the current regulation of budgetary rules does not count on. Moreover, this adjustment should also apply to subsidies not co-financed by the EU budget. [[13.00 hours]] The amendment is submitted to meet EU requirements. These requirements by the EU cannot be reflected by any other means than the proposed amendment to the budgetary rules. The EU requirements were expressed in an action plan to improve the functioning of management and control systems for structural funds in the Czech Republic. Compliance with the requirements of this Action Plan was a condition for unblocking payments for operational programmes co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund. Furthermore, without amending the budgetary rules, it is not possible to modify the regulation of the definition of the budget chapter of the Operation of State Financial Assets or the definition of state financial liabilities and sovereign debt. The regulation of the issue of government bonds also requires this adjustment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate to which I am not registering any application at the moment. Mr. Vilímec reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, today is such a day when everything is discussed effectively. There is always something to be read, and then the Volný Member reads a reduction of the deadline to 30 days. I think that what the Minister of Finance said in particular should not fit in with this so-called large budgetary rules, the proposal that is being submitted, also means the transfer of the legal authorisation of the Chamber of Deputies to issue government bonds in many cases into the regime of authorisation of the Ministry of Finance for such operations and, in principle, the authorisation to increase debt. The explanatory memorandum states, and I think it is good to read it and to hear that the legal permission for these operations "is a mere time-consuming and unnecessary formality, there is also a risk that the law authorising the Ministry to issue government bonds will not be approved". "For the same reasons, according to the proposed provision, the Ministry's authorisation to issue government bonds to cover the budget deficit of the state budget is also included. The State Budget Act," I quote from the explanatory memorandum, "must go through the legislative process, and the creation of another law that would cover the deficit" is, according to the explanatory memorandum, "only an excess process." This is how the Government, the Ministry of Finance, judges - and I must underline - the legislative powers of the Chamber of Deputies. We can also look forward to the proposal that the Chamber of Deputies should authorise the Ministry of Finance to set tax rates on the basis of an approved budget, because there is a risk that any failure to approve tax laws may jeopardise the implementation of the state budget. In short, and I must mention this here, the Government and the Ministry of Finance are trying to put the legislature, the 200 honourable Members, on the sidelines. Yes, from the Ministry of Finance's point of view, it's effective. We are unpredictable and time-consuming to the Treasury and the government of their godly intentions. I just want to point out that if we had come up with such a proposal in the past or the previous parliamentary term for a government coalition, I don't even want to imagine what the opposition would do in protest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u7	I thank Mr Vilímc. The rapporteur is also reporting. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask that the time limit for committee discussions be reduced to 30 days, so that the Volný Member does not always take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u9	That's very kind of you, Mr rapporteur. I'm registering a request to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days. I wonder who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur about the final words. Not interested. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion, and I'm looking at the left in particular, so I don't forget it. No one else has a suggestion. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote on ordering this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 311. Registered 130 MPs, 116, against none. Furthermore, the rapporteur proposed to shorten the deadline for discussion by 30 days. Initiating vote to shorten the deadline for discussion by 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 312. 130 Members and Members are registered, for 73, against 11. The proposal to shorten the deadline was accepted. I note that we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets and have reduced the deadline for discussion by 30 days. I'm ending the first reading of this bill and handing over the management of the meeting. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-006-040.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, we will continue with the next item according to the approved agenda of the meeting. This is about
