ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-002-035.u1	35. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification The Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on mutual recognition of equivalence of evidence of education issued in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic signed in Prague on 28th November 2013 /German press 134/ - first reading The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek. But he is not present, so he will be taken over by the Minister of the Environment. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-002-035.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you may be surprised to see me at this counter in this context. You'll be surprised to see me in another context. I was asked by the Minister of Education Chládek to mention this point, so I am happy to do this. The Government of the Czech Republic by its resolution No. 784 of 16 October 2013 agreed to negotiate a Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on mutual recognition of equivalence of educational documents issued in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. This treaty was signed in Prague on 28 November last year and is now submitted to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to its ratification. In particular, the Treaty provides for the recognition of equivalence of evidence of higher education, evidence of scientific qualifications and titles, including the right to use this title in the territory of the other Contracting Party's State. The contract also provides for the recognition of equivalence of educational completion documents at primary, secondary and higher vocational schools which entitle their holders to access a higher level of education in the State of the other Contracting Party. At the same time, the contract allows holders of educational documents with a title to use the relevant title in the State of the other Contracting Party. The Treaty is intended to replace the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Slovak Republic on mutual recognition of the equivalence of evidence of education issued in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, published in the Collection of International Treaties under No. 33/2001 Coll. and it's still valid. The reason for negotiating the contract is in particular the lack of update of the existing agreement due to the different development of education systems and changes in legislation in the countries of the Contracting Parties. Proposals for the conclusion of equivalence international agreements aim to facilitate the situation of individual applicants and to remove the significant obstacle to further development of academic mobility, which is an important educational priority in the context of the European Union. The international treaty presented is in accordance with the generally accepted principles of international law. It shall not infringe the rights and obligations of the States of the Contracting Parties arising from international agreements concluded. The submitted contract must therefore be classified on the Czech side and discussed nationally as an international treaty of presidential character. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according (a) The Constitution of the Czech Republic requires the approval of both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic to ratify the Treaty. The implementation of the contract will be ensured mainly by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports on the Czech side. The scope of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health will also be affected. The implementation of the contract will not call for further demands on the state budget or on other public budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-002-035.u3	I thank Minister Brabco and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Rom Kostřica. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-002-035.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, actually Members, I believe that the Minister has explained the principles of this point in very detail here, and I can only say for my person that I recommend this discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-002-035.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which I am registering Mr Zlatuška's application at the moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-002-035.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the proposal for this interstate treaty seems quite innocent, and even in those points where it will actually change the current situation, it may seem that these changes are favourable. What I would argue with the draft agreement is that it will have an effect in its effects, which is comparable to the amendment of the law, while there may not be any relevant analyses presented with the law. The one point at which the legal situation will differ from the present will concern the recognition of habilitation and appointment procedures by the professor, who is released from this new in the future by the abolition of the interstate contract of 2001 and is not expected in the new interstate contract. It is logical, because professors and professors in the current higher education law are neither as a degree nor as a rank, or in a way it was countersystemical that this was included in the interstate contract of 2001, and it also has the logic that it is not the result of education, or at the time when it is an agreement on recognition of evidence of acquired education, there is really nothing to argue about from a formal point of view. On the other hand, professors and professors are required by law in terms of guarantee of accreditation of study programmes or fields of study. In the law they are required at the time when they are occupied by the Commission on State Examinations in Higher Education and are disciplines that have either a monopoly in our country, which are schools that do not exist in Slovakia or schools that have been established in the past through the division of schools, even schools that have been dislocated only in Slovakia. I'm talking about traffic, for example. In such areas of ratification of this Treaty, the possibility of those who have not undergone domestic habilitation or domestic naming proceedings will cease to be able to perform here in these roles. Unfortunately, the Minister of Education is not here to ask him, and asking his colleagues is not entirely kosher, because of course he will not know these effects. I do not know this either, although I am moving in a higher education environment, but the impact of this kind and the impact assessment of how accreditation will have to change, how it will have to change the occupancy of the testing committees, to what extent it will have an impact on the functioning that is prescribed normally in the Higher Education Act, I lack this here. I will therefore demand the commandment of this press also to the school committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-002-035.u7	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. Another registered priority right is Minister Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-002-035.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely going to join the warning voice of my previous speaker, Mr Zlatuška, because I think that these impacts are much greater than we are now aware, and for this reason too, it is necessary that the committees deal closely with this, because I, too, personally, am not able to see over all the consequences that it will have in the event of ratification, or could have for certain fields where we are also dependent on experts with accreditation in Slovakia, or even in Slovakia. who have obtained docentures and professorships in Slovakia. You know, in the past, there has already been a problem with a school called UNINOVA, now it is Pan-European University. Unfortunately, the problem is not solved until now. In a nutshell, it is a school that offers a study programme of law, and at this school it teaches professors from the Prague Faculty of Law and at the same time students, graduates are currently denied the opportunity to apply as an associate and after successfully passed exams act as a lawyer in the Czech Republic, just with reference to the fact that it is an accreditation which was awarded in Slovakia. I do not want to mix these two areas now, but in the event of ratification of this Treaty, I can well imagine that there will be even more problems than we have now, and I wanted to illustrate this only by this one example, which unfortunately is very eloquent, and we may be dealing with it here in the Chamber of Deputies in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-002-035.u9	Thank you, Minister Válková. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no application, I will end the general debate and we will consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Committee of Foreign Affairs. Does anyone else have a suggestion, please? He's not like that here. Who agrees that this proposal should be ordered to discuss the foreign committee, please press the button and raise your hand. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? It is the 110 vote, 181 Members and Members, for 130, against none. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee, and that concludes... [[Objection from Secretary War and Messenger. Sweethearts, there was a request for the commandment of the school committee.]] Sorry, yes, I'm sorry. In that case, I ask Professor Zlatuška next time to propose this not only in the general debate, but also when I ask about the committees. I will therefore put to the vote that this proposal should still be directed to the school committee for discussion. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 111, with 180 Members registered, for 127, against 6. I therefore note that this government proposal has been directed to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Education, and I conclude the first reading of this bill. Now we're going to look at point number
