ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u1	55. Current situation in Ukraine and the attitude of the Government of the Czech Republic The item is interrupted in the general debate. I ask that Mrs Miroslava Němcová and the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek take their place at the rapporteur's table. I'm asking if the Minister wants to speak with priority rights at the moment. Yes, he's about to. Then there are other duly applied Members and Members. I'll ask the sněmovna for peace! The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good morning. If you don't mind, I would try to bring some new information into the debate, because since we talked about it, some time has passed and some decisions have been taken and perhaps it would be good if I just mentioned them here. The European Council of Prime Ministers also met yesterday, and I would just like to tell you what the conclusion of these negotiations is to make it clear what is on the table for the debate. Even before I start talking about Europe, I would like to start by reminding you that President Obama signed a third executive order on Thursday to further extend US individually targeted sanctions, such as a ban on entry into the United States and the freezing of property against specific Russian natural or legal persons. Names are already available, I've at least seen them in some foreign newspapers. Most of them are major representatives of the financial, energy, coachwork, mining and construction industries. From the names I remember, which I registered there, it's like President of the Duma Naryškin, there's the head of the Presidential Office Ivanov and others. So much for the United States. I will still get to the decision taken last night at the European Council meeting, but before I get to it, I would mention another important fact that the Russian State Duma, the Lower House of Parliament, ratified on Thursday the agreement to join Crimea with the Russian Federation. The vote took place in the Duma by 443 Members, one Member abstained, then it was further specified that he was against it. It was Ilja Ponomarjov on the part of Fair Russia. Then I would say what I think has happened and is worth noting that the Rus seem to have seized the Ukrainian military ships docked in Sevastopol's port because the flags were withdrawn from the Corvettes of Luck and Chmelnicky. The Rus seem to have withdrawn these flags, but they didn't put up their own flags. According to the spokesperson Selezňov, the target of the Russian attack was also the anti-submarine corvette Ternopil, on whose board between 15 and 20 armed soldiers penetrated. Then I have information that I would also like to say that according to the information we have from Kiev, the number of refugees from Crimea, according to the UNHCR liaison office in Kiev, is about 2,000 and they assume that the number of refugees from Crimea could still rise by thousands. So much for the events of yesterday. Now let me move on to what's important. Yesterday, the European Council of Prime Ministers acted, and I would now like to sum up the results that were achieved at the meeting of the premieres that ended in the late hours of the night. It has been decided that the list of persons to whom restrictions will be imposed as regards the entry and freezing of assets, property, will be extended by a further 12 people. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you their names, because until the official part of the European Council decides, the names will not be published. I assume the names will be released during the afternoon. I have to respect that, and I can't tell you. I repeat, it has been decided that the list will be extended by another 12 names. At the same time, it was decided at the Prime Minister's meeting that a massive OSCE mission must be created and assembled, that the European Union will support the deployment of this mission. If this fails, it has been decided that a civilian European Union observation mission will be prepared, which should be prepared in the next few days, where I can say at the moment that if this were the case, I can say that the Czech Republic will participate in this mission. At the same time, it was decided at the Prime Minister's meeting that an analysis should be carried out on the effects of possible economic restrictions that would be triggered in connection with the possible release and launch of sanctions under package number three. At this point, an analysis of the effects of these sanctions is to be carried out. If I had to afford some speculation, I think the result is that these sanctions would be applied if Russian troops moved further east of Ukraine or south. I think that's more or less how it was understood by the premieres that if there was a further movement of troops, a third wave of economic sanctions would be launched, the effects of which are being analysed at the moment. At the same time, the outcome of the negotiations was a decision to abolish the planned EU-Russia summit and to freeze contacts at the highest level between EU Member States and Russia. At the same time, it was decided to accelerate the signatures of association agreements with Moldova and Georgia. I hope I haven't forgotten anything significant. I would add that in this context I would like to inform you that on Monday the Security Council of the State will meet here in the Czech Republic, and as far as I am aware, ministers should provide some information and inventory of what the current situation means for the work of individual ministries, so that we are prepared for possible other alternatives to developments, whether in the area of further development of restrictive restrictions, or as far as possible further escalation of the situation in Ukraine is concerned. There is also under the Security Council of the State the Coordination Committee of Foreign and Security Policy, which runs the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and here I would like to tell you that we have decided to prepare a certain plan and concept of the strategy of what this situation means for the Czech Republic at this time, in two basic items - what this new situation means for foreign policy and what the implications are for foreign policy of the Czech Republic and, secondly, what it means in terms of internal policy. We started working on this text and this particular analysis of changes that could occur in Czech foreign and internal policy. [[10.50 hours]] I would like to respond to something that is also quite much discussed in connection with this situation and with the consequences, and this is the question of Volyňský Bohemia and the request that was referred to here by the President of the House in the last debate, where he informed about the information he received from some of the citizens who visited him, the Volyňský Čech, and informed him of the supposedly dangerous conditions of life in the area of Zitomir. I may have told you here, and I have also said publicly that we did not have information until now confirming that Volyň Čech would be exposed to any significantly increased danger in the area of Western Ukraine, nor could we confirm that the official regional associations we are communicating with have confirmed the increasing risk of the situation, however, given the information that has been provided here, I can inform you that one representative of our representative office in Kiev and two police officers will be heading directly to the area of Zitomir tomorrow and we will deal with the situation on the spot. At the same time, Mr Karel Kühnl is ready to leave in the next few days to see what the situation looks like. Because I don't think there's any point in comparing different types of information here, and it's best to verify the situation on the spot. I would like to inform you, however, that as far as the Volyň Čech are concerned, the procedure for them, the possibility of obtaining Czech citizenship, is easier than anyone else. This means a special regime for them and I believe that we have already created a relatively simplified form for Volyňské Bohemia in the past to apply for Czech citizenship. It is indeed a process that is relatively simple in their case, so there is no particular obstacle, especially if it is confirmed that the risks are increasing, so we are prepared for it. But I don't think this is about getting any easier access to Czech citizenship, because, as I found out, one of the women who was here already has Czech citizenship, but maybe they want some other forms of help that they want to be released. But these are things we have to judge. I can only assure you that we will consider this carefully, that we will go, as I said, to the place that is being discussed, and that we will certainly not leave anything here merely with any conjecture or inaccurate information. So much for this thing, and I'm ready to answer other questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u3	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek for his up-to-date information. We will continue the debate. Mr Šarapatka is now in office and I ask him to take the floor. Mrs Kateřina Konečná will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members, I have been following the Ukrainian crisis from the very beginning and have repeatedly spoken about the situation in Ukraine. More than ten years ago, I read the book of one of America's most important political scientists, Zbigniew Brzezinský. It's called the Great Chessboard, or what it's binding America to its global superiority. In this book, the author's theory is that if Russia succeeds in separating Ukraine, Russia will cease to be a world power forever. I believe that this is why we are now witnessing the Ukrainian crisis, the efforts to remove Ukraine definitively from Russia's influence and the weakening of its geopolitical position in Eurasia. This is therefore primarily an effort by the United States to deflect the long-term balance on the Eurasian mainland and push Russia away from Europe. By declaring Ukraine's independence in 1991, the Russian border moved back east to the level around 1600, where they were on the governments of Ivan the Hroznyj. It is not that this situation does not suit the countries in Central and Eastern Europe, certainly not in the light of recent history, but it is also unlikely that Russia would just like it. Ukraine and Ukrainians are in this big game only pawns, with which they move on the chessboard real players - the United States and Russia - well, and we, I mean the countries of the European Union including us, with our loud protests and empty gestures we are the ones who pull hot chestnuts from the fire for others without any positive outcome. On the contrary, we will pay hard for this in the future. In the situation of Russia's new power strengthening, weaknesses and risks to the world after the collapse of the Soviet Union begin to emerge, that is, at a time when Russia has virtually ceased to be a superpower. Ignore this fact, however, can be very dangerous. Russia is, above all, once again considered a power, and its national interests and ambitions are now estimated in advance. The path of return has begun among the leading powers and is beginning to declare its interests openly. It is natural and we should not react hysterically, even though we have a negative historical experience with Soviet domination. Maintaining stability in Ukraine, not its internal disruption and destabilisation, should be a priority concern for those who want to maintain the current status quo. Unfortunately, Western policy has done the opposite. Today we are witnessing the crisis, the escalation of the crisis, the imminent disintegration of Ukraine, the growth of international tensions and the return of the Cold War atmosphere. Especially in countries like us, who carry frustration in their historical memory from experience with the Soviet era, anti-Russian hysteria and fear of a new threat to Russia are returning. I would also like to say a few words about my widely mediated journey to Crimea. I remind you that I was not alone on this trip, but that our fellow Member Mr Berkovec and former Member for ČSSD, Mr Miloslav Soušek, also participated in it. I went to Crimea so that I could follow the course of the announced referendum and, above all, to see what I could think about the referendum, virtually. On the questions to be answered, and on the situation in Ukraine and Crimea, those concerned - ordinary Rus and Ukrajinec living there - are thinking. After all, they have to decide whether to live in Ukraine or Russia, and no one should talk to them about it. As for the result of the referendum, well, I don't know. I may have some education, but somehow I still don't understand why anyone, for example. Russia, forging elections for which it was clear from previous surveys how they would turn out. All mainstream media, of course, wanted us to hear from us during the trip to Crimea and after returning about the ugly Rusec and good ukrajinec that are getting hurt. And we, who had the opportunity to see the situation in Crimea with our own eyes, spoiled it for them, which, of course, is not forgiven in the Czech Republic. And hands on hearts, colleagues, and colleagues, when we heard here two days ago from the President of Parliament about the position of Volyňské Čech in Ukraine today, do you think that they are asking the Czech Parliament for help and are fleeing Western Ukraine from Putin? I don't think so, do I? Then who are they running from? Furthermore, I can add that if it were true that I was in Crimea for Russian or some other money, that I was going to Brussels on Sunday for NATO seminar, so I'm probably going to go back for US dollars, or maybe for Brussels euro, I don't know. And as a final point, I would just like to say briefly about my idea of what I think Ukraine might expect in the future. There may be an occasional increase in international tensions and verbal attacks by both Russia and the West, but that will probably be all, as Russia and the West are so closely bound economically and politically in today's globalised world that they cannot afford a real conflict between them. Instead of dividing Ukraine, there will probably be some kind of finlandisation, where the US and Russia will share geostrategic influence in the country, as was the case during the Cold War in Finland or in part Austria. Of course, the European Union will pay the bill for this solution. However, I fear that Ukraine will be a much greater bite than Greece is currently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kalousek signed up for the debate with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Don't worry, I won't hold back by repeating the position of the TOP 09 MP to the situation in Ukraine. This was communicated by Mr. Ženíšek for the TOP 09 Club and delivered a resolution. I would just like to give an opinion on Mr Šarapatka's speech. It is certainly a matter of every citizen's taste whether to go or not to go for Russian intelligence money in Crimea and to try to intensify the appearance of a democratic process in the so-called referendum. That's every citizen's business. I'm not gonna talk to him about it. But as far as I think we are concerned, the attendance of members of this honorable congregation is. We as the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic did not send any observers anywhere, and I do not feel really comfortable when there were a lot of them in the discussions, and I hear - it was okay, it was democratic there, the Czech Republic had its observers there, and you as the Chamber of Deputies also had your observers there. I'm saying we didn't have any observers there. I ask that we distance ourselves from this, and in this sense I will also propose a motion for a resolution in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u7	Thank you. The next one is Mrs Konečná. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, the game of the United States of America, the European Union and Russia has been played in Ukraine. All at the expense of the Ukrainian people. Let us remember when the crisis began. It was an unreasonable offer by the EU to an association agreement which was perhaps not even meant to be serious, because it was not a financial aid to ensure Ukraine's ability to sign such an agreement at all. Even before the EU-Ukrainian summit itself, EU officials walked among anti-government manifestants, encouraged and deterred the government from negotiating order. The detonator of instability was so ignited. Ukrainian demonstrations, originally perhaps meant well, turned into nationalist fury. The best example was the lifting of the language law immediately after taking power by a new political guarantee, but also sending oligarchs as representatives of new power to the east of the country to pacify the population there. It is quite understandable that Russia's people were threatened in this situation. After all, they know about the treatment of so-called non-citizens in Latvia and Estonia, where about 300 000 Rus, but also Polák and Bělorus, are deprived of a quarter of a century of political rights, such as the right to vote in parliament and local councils. And we are talking about the countries with which we are in the EU. Today we have chaos and sharp interference with foreign powers in Ukraine. The only way out of this chaos can be to act on everyone who has allowed this crisis. I mean, the United States, Europe and Russia. Sanctions and weapons harassment won't solve anything. It must be known that chaos has brought about both violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and international law. If we do not like the way Russia is progressing in Crimea today, we must see that this violation was preceded by a violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. If, on Wednesday, Minister Zaorálek referred to the Ukrainian Constitution, that the referendum was contrary to this Constitution, fine, but, contrary to this Constitution, President Janukovyč was also deposed and the government was removed. And that kind of doesn't bother us. If I insist on upholding the Constitution, I must go on all counts. If I tolerate one violation, which the European Union has tolerated and supported, I cannot be offended by another breach of the same document. Because then in your hands, only propaganda sticks change. After all, everything began in 2004 with a failed orange revolution, when a guarantee acceptable to the EU was established, but not to the Ukrainian people. If the Czech governments have long tolerated double standards not only in the EU, but also in the Council of Europe and other international institutions, they must admit part of the blame. It's our fault too. And now we have to ask which international law actually applies. The one that the U.S. administration, through Mr. Zaorálek, explains to us, or the general one that the UN is creating? Who is the body of international law to us? I would remind you that the right to self-determination is expressed in Article 1 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 both the Civil and Political Rights Pact and the Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Pact. That is, in valid documents that co-create an international human rights charter. Chaos in international law has triggered such aggression as the bombing of Yugoslavia, and the Minister is strengthening it by choosing only what is appropriate for its propaganda. That's when the borders began to change by force. And it wasn't decades ago. I would remind you that this year a referendum is to be held on Scotland's independence. Last year the Brit organized a referendum in Malvinách and Falklandy and three times in Gibraltar, last in 2002. The total incompetence of ministers not only of the Czech government, but also of the EU has shown that Europe creates chaos and incompetence. The telephone of the EU Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Estonian Minister for Foreign Affairs demonstrates the tragedy in which the EU is located. Why doesn't Minister Zaorálek invite whoever they were to investigate the mysterious snipers of Maidan? Why does Moscow have to demand this, and Brusel and Washington are quietly silent? Since the beginning of the crisis, Western politicians, including those in the Czech Republic, have been instigating developments whose consequences have not been seen. Here I recall the participation of some of our Members in the demonstrations in Maidan. The same Members, through the President, Mr Kalousek, who also drove there as Members. There was even a chairman of the Foreign Committee, and the Foreign Committee did not give him any permission to represent the Czech Chamber of Deputies there in any way. [[A round of applause for Members of the KSČM.]] Instead of calming the situation, many children enjoyed escalating demonstrations. And it didn't end today. Comparing Putin to Hitler and such actions will not help to calm the situation and rationally resolve conflicts. Why isn't the Minister bragging on the phone to the Ukrainian minister and calling the Russian? When he talks so much about the need for stability, he should address both sides, not support just one. And say whether it supports the federalization of Ukraine, which would ensure the rights of all residents. That's what we'd like to hear from you, too. Who is the EU supposed to deal with today? How could the EU sign even the first part of the Association Agreement, even if it is a political part, with people who have not been elected to the Ukrainian people in any way and who have only been put into office maybe - let us ask - some intelligence services, perhaps some will of the oligarchs who have their power there today. We must ensure the security of our citizens and not demonize Russia. And the help of Ukraine, and I would really like to ask that, must be tied up to the Ukrainian government arising from the free elections. Otherwise, it will be a lost investment and we will not really know, and now I am talking not only about the Czech Republic but also as the EU, to whom we are sending the money. So we have been doing this since 2004, since those color revolutions that the EU has also been very fond of supporting, but now we are talking about completely different money. And forgive me, if Mr. Zaorálek now says we're going to be making analyses of our actions, I mean financial, I'd like to ask him not to speak. Each word in this crisis costs the Czech Republic at least one job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u9	Thank you, Madame. The Minister of Culture is claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u10	Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have a compliment to make to my colleague. Finally, it has an admirable gift, although many times I think that I will not go to a certain point that I cannot get off. I think that what has just been said here on the ground of this respectable congregation simply has to be commented on. I think the Member here has presented what I have said to the media several times and in recent days, that the Communist Party is simply unable to reform that it is anti-democratic. The words spoken here defend the anexi of the territory of a foreign state, which is comparable to the anšlus of Austria of 12 March 1938 or the occupation of Czechoslovakia of 21 August 1968, are simply unacceptable. And it was the communist power of the Soviet Union that entered into a shameful treaty with Nazi Germany on 23 August 1939, a treaty that entered into history as the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact. Only then did the Communist Party replace the unacceptable philosophy of international solidarity and stand up to the side of democratic forces in the fight against Nazism. That's something to remember. I think it is necessary to raise the voice clearly and say a clear 'no'! trampling democratic traditions and occupying foreign territories. And I am very happy to be proud of Czech foreign policy for its clear position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u11	Thank you. I have three factual points here. With the first point of fact, Mrs Konečná will speak. You have the floor, two minutes to make a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u12	Thank you. I don't know. This reminds me a little bit, I'm sorry, Minister of Culture, I know I've been giving you a hard time lately because most of the time you're reacting to me, but I'm very disappointed in your performance tonight. That's what the team's political training used to be called. [[Let's hear it for the Communist MPs.]] And I only presented if you listened to me that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia wanted to respect international law, and I was just asking politely what international law we respect. Whether it was prepared and presented by the US administration or the one that was adopted in the basic documents on human rights and presented to the United Nations. I'm up for the other one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u13	Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Opálka is registered. So you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, who want to beat the dog, find the stick. I understand the Minister of Culture that he is his own subject of hereditary sin. But I ask all those who are interested in reading in the screen recording of the speech of the Member Final and the speech of the Minister of Culture. I'm talking about a cart, he's called a goat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u15	Thank you. Another factual point I have here is that of Mr Kováčik. So that's canceled. Next, with a factual remark, is Mr Koskuba. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, this is Ukraine. And as you could read in the press, it is considered rude for individual ČSSD Members to express their opinion because we have our foreign minister. So I'm going to limit myself to just one thing. Yes, we are discussing Ukraine here, and I understand that part of this House has proper toads on its lapels. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have it, but I would like to remind you of something: yesterday there was an interruption in the negotiations on a treaty with a country that has not been established and does not exist under very democratic conditions, and I admit that I am not personally interested in the matters of this country, and I am thinking of Kosovo, as I said at the club, because our hospitals are not taking the authorities they export from this country. That's the first point. The other thing I want to remind you of. When you went to the House, you noticed that a Tibetan flag was flying across from the building. If you want to be so radical here in just one thing, please, sew the Tibetan battalion on your back and consider how you will deal with the representatives of the People's Republic of China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u17	Thank you. Mr Jandák came forward with a point of fact. I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to turn down the noise level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. [[He speaks at the same time as the last sentence of the President.]] I didn't want to perform, but I have this feeling that maybe you need to put a little cold rag on your head and realize why we're sitting here. And to realize the size and importance of this republic and the size and importance of this minister. You think by talking - pardonfully - here, and it's talk, I've been listening to it for days, we're gonna help the people of this country? No, these people aren't waiting for us to watch Maidan, but what a party we've had here in 20 years. That's what people watch. And I think people expect us to start worrying about things that are probably not noble for you. But that's the health problem, the problem with education and everything else. I'm sorry, come to your senses, and remember why you're here. And, Daniel, through the President, don't destroy our minister. What you're saying here will completely destroy him in social democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u19	Thank you. I have three registered with priority rights. The first is the Foreign Minister Zaorálek, the chairman of the Mihola Club and...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u20	Well, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u21	Minister, I'm begging you. I thought this was a proper sign-in with priority rights. A real point, that comes first. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just a very brief response to Dr. Koskuba. The Tibetan Battalion isn't a bad idea, we'll consider it. It just doesn't belong on the back, it belongs on the heart. However, my colleague, the comparison with Kosov, although I did not vote for his recognition, is fundamentally limping. When Kosovo came into being, the state divided without changing its external borders and without any usurper gaining part of that territory. In the case of Crimea, there is nothing other than that the aggressor acquires part of the territory at the expense of another state. And that's the crucial, absolutely fundamental difference. And it's in imperial politics to countries of former Soviet satellites. And if you want to be next, I don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u23	Thank you. I have another factual point here. Mr. Mr. Kováčik. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Have a good day. Have a good Friday. I'd like to respond to a little bit of that, but with Mr. Kalousek, we're used to the fact that he's actually very good at juggling concepts. When Kosovo came into being, external borders changed substantially. Serbia's external borders have changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u25	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Novotný of the ODS. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u26	Maybe I'd like to challenge us all to some sort of drop under the boiler. Similarly, our predecessors in this House in the 1920's, 1930's, had spiritual debates about our state's foreign policy orientation. Some relied on a certain orientation, others relied on another. Then, after the war, the famous train headed by the portraits of Stalin, among other things, came the Košice government program and such matters. Let us not demonstrate in front of the world that we have very different views on the foreign policy anchoring of this state. For me personally, this whole debate is just a clear reminder that the pragmatic lesson from what worked and didn't work in the 20th century is the most important thing that we should all have in mind. I am deeply convinced that this means clear support for this country's Euro-Atlantic links. But I don't want this debate to get any further. I don't think it's a good idea for us to demonstrate in front of the whole world here that there's such a fatal difference of opinion on the anchoring of this country. It will not help this country and its security in particular. I find it awkward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u27	Thank you. There is no further factual point, so I will ask the Minister of Zaorálek Affairs for priority. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u28	Thank you. I would also like to appeal to my fellow Members to discuss this point, if possible, without anger and fury, and to be able to discuss it in a way that we would not be unnecessarily distraught because I think it is unnecessary. But not because we are representatives of too small a country with too little ministers, because I think that is also a mistake in thinking, but because only if we are able to achieve a common result, if we are able to agree on values that we respect, and if we are able to make the Czech Republic have one foreign policy, can we have a vote in the present world at all. So I'd put in a good word for that. And I would remember a British London professor who once told me in London how surprised he was that in the Czech Republic and Czechoslovakia earlier we liked to talk about our country as a small one. And he warned me that there are countries that are smaller than Czechoslovakia and than the Czech Republic today, and that would never use the small adjective. Because they are all convinced that smallness is not simply given by how many people you have and how large your territory is, but is given simply by how you are able to act, how you are able to manage your country, how you are able to have culture and things like that. When these things are obvious in Denmark, Holland and other countries, I would like us to feel the same way in the Czech Republic once. To avoid talking about the insignificance of the Czech government, about the insignificance of Czech ministers, not to talk about the insignificance of the Czech Republic. Because we can only do this ourselves if we are unable to take opinions that will be understandable, that we will be able to argue and that it will be clear that we have been able to agree on them. This is what I'm offering you, my friends, and that's why I'm here to get through this. I've always been convinced it was possible. I have always been convinced that we are able to have a debate in this country about what is the interest of this state. And that if we're civilized people, we have some culture, we could be able to do that in this House. That is why I appeal to you, as we have appealed in Ukraine, put those extremes away and try to reach something that we can agree on. Because of the joint resolutions, there is also this House. And because of the common positions that we are able to take in Europe, there is also this House. So don't tell me this isn't a subject that doesn't matter. And don't say foreign policy is something we can put aside and ignore. In the 20th century, it happened to us several times that it turned out that foreign policy and forces had just invaded us from the outside, which decided that we did not have to and could not make decisions about ourselves. And even for decades. So maybe it's worth noting what's going on in Ukraine, and having a cultural conversation about it. To know where the interest of the Czech Republic is. I'm still convinced we're capable of that. I went to the minister's office because I am convinced that we are able to have a unified foreign policy, and I am prepared to do everything for it. And that's why I'm not gonna argue with anybody here, and I'm just gonna start by fixing some inaccuracies. It is not true that it was someone else in Kiev, Ukraine, who raised the question of examining what took place on Majdan in the most dramatic days. I can assure you that it was I myself who turned to the representatives of Ukraine on every occasion that these are the things that must be examined. And when I was a member of the delegation of Ministers V4, i.e. a member of the delegation in which the Hungarian Minister, Slovak, representative of Poland and I were, so we officially answered when we were dealing with the Prime Minister of the country, with ministers, practically with the President of the House, even with opposition representatives. We all stressed the same way that the first thing that has to be is to investigate this case. And it was clear from all of us. We weren't waiting for someone else to say that. It's not even true that I'm only dealing with someone. Please, that's not true. I can assure you that I am communicating with Minister Lavrov, that he himself showed me that he wanted to meet, and I invited him to Prague. It's just not true that I only communicate with one side. And I'm glad to be able to tell you right now, so we can get this straight. And then about the constitutionality. That's a long debate, I'll make it short, but I'll tell you something that seems important to me. The debate is that it doesn't have an end. The meeting that took place between Mr Mustafa Džemilev - which is, as I once named him here, a very respectable figure. Mr Mustafa Džemilev, I mentioned here once that he was in prison because he protested the occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968. He's a character so respected that Mr Putin is also speaking to him as a representative of the Crimean Tatar. And in his interview with him, according to Mr. Džemilev's testimony, Mr. Putin said - when Džemilev told him that Crimean plebiscite was illegal, Mr. Putin replied to him: But Ukraine also violated the laws in force by leaving the Union State. That means he told him that in 1991, when there was a referendum in Ukraine, it was also a violation of the laws in force. Friends, this is a very serious fact, and we have no reason not to trust Mr. Džemilev. In the end, the Russian president didn't deny it either. This is quite the basic thing. That means Mr Putin clearly told him that we can now blame the referendums, but then I don't accept yours, which means I don't accept Ukraine's independence... You see, that means that I don't even recognize the whole break-up of the states of the former post-Soviet space, and I take it we, as he says in his speech in the Duma, were robbed of you, you were stolen from us. And you had no right to vote in that referendum about wanting to be alone! Well, folks, where are we gonna get a result here? So what are we gonna do about it? Mr Putin does not accept the referendum of Ukraine, we do not recognise the referendum of Crimea. How are we going to get out of this? There are often arguments here that something was not 100% according to the Constitution, and in this debate that something was not regular according to the Constitution. I myself, when I think about it, what was in my life according to the Constitution and what was not, will remember that in 1989, at the beginning of 1990, I was co-opted as an MP at the Federal Assembly. You see, I was a member of the Federal Assembly who was co-opted, who was not elected by anyone. I replaced some MP who had to leave. I have a feeling this wasn't according to any constitution either. I can barely brag about it, can I? To become a Fed MP by being sent there, you sit there... And that's where you vote to be a member of... That's very peculiar. So I have experienced a limited number of coups and velvet revolutions in my life. But I've been there. And I know I wasn't a federal MP under the Constitution. Am I supposed to say that it was all invalid? Was Václav Havel's choice invalid? Was the decisions we made there invalid? You know, everything's on the water as soon as we take it that way. On the water is independent Ukraine, on the water is the Czech Velvet Revolution, on the water is Crimea. So what I'm saying is that it's a purely constitutional point of view, if we were to apply it to the events of Ukraine and what's happening around us, as if nothing would stand. And you can use it any way you want, and we can bang our heads in the way we can. I am telling you that a purely legal constitutional aspect in assessing situations such as the political crisis will not stand in me. Therefore, when we were in Ukraine and we acted there on those excited days, we were interested in such a thing that the decision of the Ukrainian government, Parliament - and now do not laugh, but that was all we could say - was as close to the constitution as possible to be near to the laws. You see, that's all that's left. Get as close as you can! [[11.30 hours]] Just like my co-opting into this parliament to get as close to the constitution as possible. Because in situations of political crises, in situations where you even have dozens of dead, thinking that everything will be clean is a bit of an illusion. I have read somewhere that the situation in Ukraine resembles the situation in Russia in 1917 when, in fact, all the state administration is falling apart and almost anyone can get to power. In fact, the purpose of similar situations is to cope with them so that the crisis does not deepen, that the situation escalates, that the state collapses, and that even God does not give them more and more death. So that is why I believe that the debate that has been suggested here, the debate about what has been or has not been constitutional, is a debate that will not lead us to any outcome. You know, we're not gonna get any of those. I myself tell you that in the case of Kosovo, I was the one who claimed that the procedure that he had chosen was extremely dangerous and very controversial. We haven't gotten any results either. Therefore, if I am to look for a common denominator on which we will agree in this House, I have suggested that we not examine the extent to which it has ever complied, the Constitution has failed to comply precisely, because that is probably not what the individual protagonists agree on according to which side it stands, but that the Czech Parliament should comment on what immediately concerns it. And I believe that in the case of what happened in Crimea, it was not only about the violation or integrity of the Constitution, but that foreign troops, foreign soldiers, entered the territory of a sovereign state. And whether Mr Putin acknowledges or does not acknowledge the vote and referendum in Ukraine in 1991, in 1994, Russia signed an international resolution, an agreement, a treaty whereby it undertook to respect Ukraine's borders also on the grounds that Ukraine gave up nuclear weapons. So there is evidence that there are international commitments and principles of international law that have been violated in this matter. So I don't feel competent to speak to anyone who has respected the constitution in one country or another, but I feel competent in the Czech Republic to comment on the fact that someone has crossed the borders of a foreign state in this way and placed their soldiers there and made their own territory from another. And I have the impression that this is the denominator that we could all agree on in this House and have it as an opinion that is essential to us, because I think that's something we have a deep experience with that we can actually talk about here for a long time. I think this is the interest of the Czech Republic. The interest of the Czech Republic is clear that it is not possible to hold referendums on borders. That it is not possible, on the basis of the designation of national minorities, to claim some territory as their own. For me, it is simply terrifying what political parties, what political currents call for what happened in Crimea. The terrible thing for me is that such hard nationalist parties, such as Jobbik in Hungary, and I could name others in Europe, are now enthusiastic about how national self-determination has been raised. It is before the elections to the European Parliament. And they say, these are the principles that we have always tried to apply to, and finally somebody has made it clear and finally we can see that this is how it can be. That it is possible, on the basis of the fact that there is a national minority somewhere, even to occupy the territory, even if it is foreign! But these political parties say this is something they support. This has become part of the debate. And I think that's dangerous. This is dangerous for the Czech Republic and this may concern us! I think so. So there's ten million of us, but I'm saying that the way we're standing here at these borders and with these people, that he should be able to say clearly that something similar is something that we have to condemn. And no matter whether we're sitting there or there. Regardless of how we are going to have a debate here on the situation in Ukraine, we should stand on this issue clearly and clearly. In my opinion, the Czech Government should also be guided. And that's why we're having this debate here. 'Cause I'm also making you an account here from the way I'm acting as a minister at the Council, at the European Council. You know that at this moment the Prime Minister is sitting, and I think this Parliament has every right, and even it has to do so, it should comment on what it thinks about this matter and give its opinion in this Czech government. And I say that the debate we started here is a debate that can be conducted on committees. I am prepared to come to any committee and talk to him about the situation in Crimea, Ukraine and so on, but I wish we had a clear position here on what seems relevant to me right now and what I said here last time. It must be unacceptable for the Czech Republic that someone is holding referendums on borders. It must be unacceptable for us that the principles of international law are not respected. And the fact that international treaties are not respected. Because if this were to apply and we actually entered an environment where borders would dissolve like this, then we would live in an environment in which the right of the stronger will be exercised above all. Where countries will be decisive depending on how many people they have, how many soldiers they have, how many territories they have. And a country like the Czech Republic will only become small. Just like we were in 1938, I'm afraid. And I think that is something that could be the subject of a certain agreement and agreement in this House. I appeal to you, fellow Members, let us not now argue about a number of things where we may disagree for various reasons, but let us try not to hold a debate for hours here today, let us lead it in committees. But let us give a resolution here, in which we will clearly say that there are things that are unacceptable for the Czech Republic and the Czech Parliament. And I wish that the debate would go well, so that it would have a clear outcome.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u29	Thank you, Minister. I have two factual points here. Mr Foldyna is registered with the first in fact. No? So, Mr. Jandák, in that case, I misspelled my name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u30	I, Mr President, will be very brief. I would like to thank our Minister, and I hope that the ANO also realizes that the Minister is working. He works very hard. But you, Minister, have said one thing - I listened very carefully - that everything is on the water. So let's go to the next point, that's air protection. That's where I think we agree. I'm not so sure about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u31	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Opálka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Once again, I would like to respond to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He's exposed the situation to its complexity, and I'm not denying that it's complicated. But there are so many historical precedents that have happened in the past, and we're always talking about one side. We are called on to adopt a political position, but here is such a rich game of intelligence interests not only by great powers, but also by individual states within the European Union. So, who are we gonna do the service to? I would almost say that we should take advantage of the challenge that Jandák has made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u33	Another point in fact, Mr Kostřica is registered here. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u34	Thank you for the floor. I wouldn't want to disrespect this House in any way, but imagine what the situation would be if all four armed transporters invaded the Zakarpatsky Russian and announced here a referendum on whether this country should be allocated to Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Ukraine, or Russia. I think these are things that we should also be aware of. That there was a first violation of integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u35	Thank you. Before I give the floor with a factual remark to Mr Grospič, the Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes for business reasons from 11.45 pm. I will now ask Mr Grospič for a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, through the President, the one thing that has stuck with me now in his story, which has told us here about the situation in Ukraine and the whole Ukrainian problem. Which, of course, I am not saying that I do not appreciate the seriousness of the problem, and I would just like to say to those who actively supported, for example, the recognition of Kosovo that sometimes well-meaning intent and well-meaning path paved into hell. [[11.40 hours]] In the second context, I would like to ask what kind of mandate he had in Kiev, he as Foreign Minister of one of the Member States of the European Union, now that he has admitted that he has advised opposition forces in Ukraine, how to overthrow or conquer a legitimate government, because this is quite a crucial moment, which preliminarily determines the position of Czech diplomacy and the Czech government, regardless of what this House will achieve at this point in its negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u37	Thank you. It's a real point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u38	I would react immediately to what was said, because maybe it wasn't quite understood. I said here that I dealt with opposition representatives, but I meant the Party of the Regions. I meant the opposition that remained in opposition to Mr Jefremov at this point, because I was convinced it was good for this opposition to be part of the government. As part of the requirement of inclusion, I was bothered by the fact that the position of the European Union was originally such that Mr Janukovyč should also be part of the government, and our role was that we wanted to create a government as far as possible without extremes, but with the broadest possible representation, including the Party of the Regions. So the conversation with Mr. Jefremov as a representative of the opposition was about why they didn't actually go into this, and I wanted to see if anyone would let him. He told me that no, that it was repeatedly offered to them. And he gave me the reasons why the Party of the Regions didn't go into government. And I told him I thought it was wrong. He described to me the situation in the party and the fact that the situation was such that for them this had enormous risks. The party will have to make a convention, maybe it will have changes in leadership and so on and so forth. So, to be clear, I spoke to these opposition representatives because I even hated that they were in opposition. I don't think I have any special mandate to tell them how to build a government. That was a normal conversation with people who were willing to talk to us and who were ready to explain it to us. I never understood it by going to Ukraine to tell the Ukrajinec what to do. But given what was going on there, I think they understood that our interest was legitimate. And with regard specifically to the ministers of the V4 and especially the Czech Republic, I would like to assure you that the position of the Czech Republic and its reputation in Kiev in Ukraine is such that everyone across the spectrum, including representatives of the Party of the Regions, was willing to talk to us. I could appoint the ministers of the European Union they have not met, my friends. I wouldn't want that. It would be unfair. I'm just saying I didn't force myself on anyone! I didn't give any advice! [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I hope that's clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u39	Thank you. I also have an application with Mr Mackovík's point of view. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the liberty of speaking on this issue with one crucial point. If Czech foreign policy is to be a sovereign state policy, it cannot be a copy of the White House press release. First of all. Two. If we're sending our troops to fight terrorism, then we need to realize that the most radical forces in Majdan that really used force resources are terrorists who are now suddenly democrats. Are you saying that people who killed, killed, so suddenly we have a different perspective, a different view? There are fascists who were also one of the most radical. Again. Will we take such positions and, if necessary, tolerate the election of fascists to the new Ukrainian government? Are we going to tolerate this? Where are we going? To the level of the 1970s, when certain so-called democratic forces tolerated the fact that he was a fascist dictator in Chile and destroyed his nation. There is a need for differentiated and differentiated approach to individualities, not across the board to say that the revolution in Ukraine is purely democratic. Please do not copy the foreign policy of the Czech Republic's dedicated policy of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u41	Thank you. I mean, at 12 o'clock, Mr Karel Pražák apologizes for his work-related reasons. In addition, Mr Grospič and then Mr Kalousek are registered with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and express my personal conviction, but I think that the conviction that will probably be shared by a large part of you, my fellow Members, that, in future, the essence of Czech diplomacy should not be to determine the personal wishes of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but essentially the Government and Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u43	Thank you. Furthermore, with a factual remark by Mr Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u44	I wanted to remind you that our point is about something else - about the position of the Czech Government within the European Union in taking over the Crimea. One usurper is simply occupying part of the sovereign territory of another state, and we are here trying to discuss this position. I want to say for TOP 09 that, in the previous steps of the government, when it expressed its voice on the so-called referendum and legitimacy of the annexation of Crimea to Russia, the Czech government has our confidence, the Czech government has our support and we believe that we are able to reach a unified position across the political spectrum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u45	One more point of fact. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u46	I would just like to assure everyone that in no way today the European Union or the Czech Republic is writing its position from the statements of the US President or the US administration. I may have spoken in more detail on this subject on the European Committee. I'm just pointing out that this is such a big subject that I could talk about it for a little longer. On the European Committee, I was talking the other way around that the question is that our positions should not differ. It certainly does not, because the interest of the United States, when we try to define it today, is not the same interest in Europe, and therefore there is no a prior reconciliation or copying. The American list is produced separately because the American rule of law is different from European law. I could explain here why there are other names. I just don't agree. And then, about who is or is not in government. I'd like to appeal - let's save a little with the word fascist. At this time, we are in a state where both sides are referred to as fascists, as I'm sure you've noticed. I feel like we should be a little more careful about this. I'm ready to come to the committee and talk about the composition of the current Ukrainian government. I myself have reservations there, but I wouldn't use those words. And if someone says that, they should prove it. I guess the problems are for a longer debate. And I repeat: on the committee I am prepared to discuss these matters in detail!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u47	Thank you. I have two more applications with a factual remark. The first is Mr Benešík, the second Mr Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u48	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that it is possible to justify infringement of international law in one case by breaching international law in the other case. KDU-ČSL has the luxury of saying that there has probably been a violation of international law in Kosovo, and the luxury of saying that there has also been an infringement of international law in Crimea. Very interestingly, Vladimír Putin says in one single speech: "There has been a violation of international law in Kosovo. We used the exact same procedure in Crimea, but there was no violation of international law in Crimea. Everything is in harmony." I think that Vladimír Putin can afford it in Russia, but not us in a democratic country called the Czech Republic. So please, let's not just read the information from one side, but read the information from the other side. Let's be impartial. In our interest, the annexation of Crimea is certainly not Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u49	Thank you. I have two applications for the debate with priority rights. I'm sorry, there's one more point of fact. Mr. Polčák from TOP 09 and the Mayor. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u50	Mr Vice-President, I merely want to point out that the International Court of the Hague has decided on Kosovo and the action brought by Serbia has been rejected in this case. This means that I do not know that any international authority would say that there has been a violation of international law on this matter. Therefore, I would like, if necessary, to say that if an action has been brought against the very establishment of the Republic of Kosovo in Serbia, the case has been dismissed by the International Court in The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u51	Thank you. I have another factual point here. Mr. Foldyna. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u52	I don't like to talk about Ukraine, but you can see everything's going through here. Mr Polčák spoke about the Hague Tribunal, he spoke about the Winners' Tribunal. Well, I don't want to question him. There, of course, we all know that the fundamental cause of the Hague Tribunal and the fundamental guilt is when they prove to you that you are a Srb, and you are condemned. Did you notice that, Mr. Polčák? Sorry, Mr President, through you. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Bartošek: Through me. That's right.]] If you've noticed. So I have significant doubts about the Hague Tribunal. But I have no doubt that UNSCR 1244 is in force, which says that Serbia's integral borders, including Kosovo, have been violated. So I think we're getting into some relativization terms, and I wish we didn't have to do this anymore because I think the public is looking at us, and so they must be very confused about what law is and what isn't law anymore. It is a pity that there is no former Minister of Foreign Affairs here who has made all this happen because he has persuaded the Czech Government to recognise Kosovo in violation of its resolution, its parliament. It was Mr. Schwarzenberg! It wasn't Luboš Zaorálek. It was the TOP 09 that now married him, and unfortunately because you went through the people's side and now you're like the TOP 09, so you have a little bit of a problem with that too. I have a major problem with that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u53	Thank you. I do not have another factual point, in which case Mr Mihola has priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u54	Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that after that I am rather surprised and disappointed by the speech of many of you colleagues. To justify Russian actions, the Russian annexation of Crimea in the internal political situation or instability of Ukraine and other similar arguments, I consider it very reckless and unfortunate. With such a view of what is happening in the world, I believe that we can soon be afraid that the world map will change again soon. So I am not one of those who would see the situation in Ukraine in black and white and internal politics in this country divided into the fact that one is good and the other is evil. To think that we have a lot of our own problems and concerns, which is true, and so let us not worry about what we do not have to do anyway, or at least, I also consider unfortunate and, above all, even if it is also a possible position, in my opinion, an unworthy democratic country which is part of the European Community. As president of the club, I would like to say here that in relation to the situation in Ukraine, the KDU-ČSL Club fully supports the position of the Government of the Czech Republic, rejecting the annexation of Crimea as a violation of international law. Already in previous discussions, numerous historical parallels have been mentioned, including those well-known of our own historical experiences from 1938 and 1968. Russia added Crimea this week, and by the mouth of the head of state, it mentioned that it did not have any other territorial claims. At the same time, however, it said that Rus's rights in the world will be hard defended, which is fine, only after the Russian approach, because with the Russian approach, we can expect further developments, especially with regard to the pro-Russian part of Ukraine and other countries. Even in the press it was possible to notice concerns, and I would say legitimate concerns, especially the Baltic Republics. Volyně Čech were also mentioned here. I know a little bit about the problem. Coincidentally, my colleague from the faculty is a leading expert in the history of Volyňských Bohemia and I regularly go with him every summer to Nový Malín, where the tryzna takes place with the participation of Members to commemorate the burning of Czech Malín in Volyn, and I have written a number of reviews on professional books with this issue. As far as I know, there are about 10,000 Volyňské Čech living in Ukraine at the moment, and it is therefore not a mass flight, no matter what. I also fear and will try very carefully to find out which arguments the Volyan Čech use. I certainly wouldn't just simplify it to some unstable situation in Ukraine. I would say that at least as serious is the fear of what will happen on the part of Russia. Of course, the Baltic countries are very concerned, as I said. It must be noted here that conflict in Ukraine can also significantly strengthen separatist tendencies in Europe and the world, whether visible or latent. Things seem so serious to me -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u55	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. [[To the interrupting Members:]] If you want to deal with other matters that are not related to the subject, leave this room! Thanks. Keep going, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u56	The matter seems so serious to me that I would welcome, in addition to the clear opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Government of the Czech Republic, if the relevant committees, in particular the Foreign and Defence Committee, were also made clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u57	Thank you. I have two factual points here. The first is signed in by Mr Zavadil, the second Minister Stropnický. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I would like to apologize to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr. Hamáček. I just got a note. He apologizes for work reasons for the whole day. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u58	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike my previous speaker, I believe that most of this Parliament condemns what happened in Crimea. Here they only offer the different parallels that happened here once and to which you here - I must say you did not express yourself because I was not here - in this way. That was perhaps the bigger problem of this. On the contrary, I am proud to be Evropan, because I believe that the sanctions that are now being imposed are based on a fairy tale about a smart mountaineer. And I am glad that Europe has read it because neither dressed nor naked nor on a cart nor on a goat. So there's a certain list of names - I'm not criticizing it, I'm just stating it - there's a certain list of names. I miss Putin there. Why isn't Putin there? Because they're afraid to put it there! So, given some of the views that appear here on our political scene from the point of view of sanctions, I am glad that I am Evropan and that sanctions are not what they call themselves from various political parties. I have no problem with that when it comes to different flaps. I don't have that kind of taste, but I don't blame my colleagues on the right that they're gonna put that badge in there. [[TOP 09, note. Stenogro.]] Maybe it'd be bolder in the Crimea to get started and take some firearms. Then I'd sign up for it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Minister Stropnický is registered. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, it took me a while, but after a while I too realized that in a number of cases of discussion posts, I found myself more likely at a pre-election meeting for the Euroelections. But that's not what I was gonna say. I wanted to say that I would like to thank the part of the opposition that supports government policy at the moment. I wanted to say that there are moments when it is necessary to forget the difference of opinion in other areas and forget the screaming and to allow this House to speak with a strong majority voice, and that is precisely this moment. And otherwise, through the Vice-President, I would just like to make a small remark to Mr. Foldyn that the public is looking at us. I think that's underestimating the public. The public has already shut us down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u61	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Filip is entered into the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u62	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will return to what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said. Okay, there's been a revolution in the streets of Kiev, and we'll forget about constitutionality for a while, which is what happens in revolutions. I do not agree with this, I have an opinion on this, but I will respect that there will be new elections in Ukraine and that there will certainly be some new political representation to be dealt with. What's bothering me? That at this point, we should be dealing with someone whose word doesn't apply for 24 hours. When I remember - and I tried to study it from the pages of the UN Security Council - on 21 February this year, at a meeting of three foreign ministers with President Janukovyč and then with Ukraine's political representation, there was some solid basis from which another Ukrainian policy, European policy against Ukraine, and Ukrainian policy against Europe were to be developed. It didn't even last 24 hours. I'm asking how long the deals they're making are gonna last. A moment ago, a report came from the Czech Press Office that the Prime Minister of Ukraine signed an agreement in Brussels - an association agreement with the European Union, its political part. Will Ukraine's current political representation respect it? And will she be respected by the political representation that will take place after the election? I'm just asking. Exactly what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said here. Because the purpose of our debate is to clearly express Czech national interest, the interest of one of the Member States of the European Union in relation to the neighbour, and forgive me for saying this to the neighbour of Ukraine. Yes, there is still Slovakia among us, if someone would take my word for it - and when I have already forgiven myself for quite respecting international law, full respect for constitutionality, I will also forgive myself for not being direct neighbours, but nevertheless we are neighbours, because here we have a large number of Ukrainian citizens in the Czech Republic, either for a short or long stay. They're busy here, and we're expecting a solution. So what is the interest of the Czech Republic? What does the Chamber of Deputies have to say to the government in this negotiation? The interest is both political and economic. It is an interest not to break ties between Čech and Ukrajinec, between Čech and Rus, whether they live in Ukraine or live in the Russian Federation or in any other state. In this respect, we may continue to recognise the principle of a good neighborhood. I do not think that I would ever violate in my parliamentary capacity the way in which foreign policy of the Czech Republic is presented. Although I am an opposition Member, I have always respected foreign policy and I have spoken to it from a position of opposition within, not beyond the borders of our state. But I want to hear what the interest is. If we are to continue with sanctions, forgive me, which draw up some lists of people who cannot or cannot come to the European Union. The Russian Federation's answer is simple - we're not gonna make lists of people who can't come to us, no matter who comes here. Because, forgive me, it is only that those foreign ministers, the Presidents of the European Union, don't make fools of themselves, because they don't know how long the agreement that they've just written in Brussels will apply. That's the whole point of the thing. And I ask about the national interest in how the Czech government, its foreign minister, its Minister of Industry and Trade will act about the energy security of the Czech Republic. If, instead of delivering from the Russian Federation, we secured supplies from Arab countries, for example, by what means, whether we are satisfied with the Adria pipeline, which, among other things, has an outlet in the Slovak Republic, if we have any agreement with the Slovak Republic that we will get about 30 percent of our consumption through Adria to Czech refineries and whether we will even get them into Adria in a situation where we have allowed the disastrous foreign policy of past governments to argue with most of the Arab world. Yes, we can talk about making arrangements for oil and gas supplies from the Caspian region. Finally, thanks to the way the 2009 energy conference was managed in Chabarovsk in June, we managed to increase supplies from Azerbaijan at least because we did not agree in Kazakhstan. I think that those who sat in governments, whether they are in opposition today or are in government now, know this very well because we took the liberty of selling our chemical industry to a Polish state enterprise that has no resources. And in this respect, I want to hear from the government of the Czech Republic what will be the national interest, where we will ensure the energy security of the Czech Republic, supplies, so that working companies can still work today, or whether we will shut them down energyally, whether we will restore some coal power plants, or whether we will really announce the outcome of the competition for the Temelín nuclear power plant without a winner, we will make a new tender and say that we need different conditions and a much faster construction, because this is a crucial thing. If you don't want to talk about it, just say so. Okay, we'll talk about it on the committees. But that's what we want to hear here after what happened in Ukraine, because all the energy problems were always because there was no agreement between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. The Russian Federation said that it would sell any amount of gas and oil through the pipes that go further through our territory to Europe, because we are not the final station of both the Družba pipeline and the transit pipeline in all those parts. So in this respect, I ask what else you have done besides going to Ukraine. Excellent idea, we will probably not make the trip planned for Ukraine by the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. As long as it's not there after the election, it doesn't make sense either, because who would we even be talking to there - those who are leaving or who don't even want to come? And it wouldn't make any sense, or we'll probably make a slight change in our plans in the Organizing Committee. But I am convinced that this is a question that the government should answer. Since I think the chairman of KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 said that we are not dealing with Majdan, we are now discussing the position of the Czech Government in relation to Ukraine and the Russian Federation because it concerns Crimea. And I'm not going to repeat that for me, the fundamental question is what boundaries we're supposed to defend. Whether we should defend Ukraine's borders in 1654, or before 1917, or in 1922, so-called. Leninian, or 1939, so-called. Stalinian or Stalinian two from 1945, or Khrushchev from 1954. I am not willing to defend the Stalinist borders of Ukraine, and I must therefore assume that there have been some agreements, such as I have not defended the borders of Georgia, which have also been only Stalinist. [[12.10 hours]] In this respect, I want to know clearly what the position will be. And I said that here in my first speech, that I am deeply convinced that those who are behind this unfortunate development in Ukraine have ignored not only those political forces that have sought a referendum, the national referendum on further direction that have sought the federalization of the country, in order to avoid such excesses as the removal of their own mother tongue to those nations living in Ukraine, because it is not a single national state. But development has gone the other way around. In this respect, I may not be surprised at what the Foreign Minister said that the Party of the Regions said that it was not going into such a government. Our goal is to stabilize as soon as possible. So if the Foreign Minister comes and says - yes, after signing the association agreement that the Prime Minister signed in Brussels, we have 60 days to vote and there will be a presidential election and there will be a situation, so of course we can have other options for our progress. But we don't have them now. I now do not know what the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and other ministers are doing on ministerial councils to protect Czech national interests within Europe. I am glad that the Foreign Minister has acknowledged that Europe's interest is different from the United States of America, and that is why there is no need - and I hope that we do not write down lists of those who are to be those who do not receive visas from the United States of America. Among other things, do you know what will happen if the Russian Federation does not introduce any visas for the citizens of Ukraine? That we will have a great but really great emigration from Ukraine to the Russian Federation. That's what's going to happen, because they're going to be the ones who are going to offer people something better than they are inside that state. Is that what we wanted to achieve? I don't think so. I would therefore ask, in addition, that the Government of the Czech Republic express itself on the situation in Ukraine and against the Russian Federation, that we in particular guard our national interest, that we guard those ties that allow the Czech Republic to act as sovereign countries as part of the European Union, because otherwise, in terms of energy security, Europe will become a Europe that will be economically governed only by the Federal Republic of Germany, because the only one that has protected its national interest in advance, because it has brought another transit pipeline to the bottom of the Baltic Sea. And they are independent of how much gas flows through Ukrainian, Slovak and Czech territory to Ingolstadt. Yes, they're independent on this route. We don't. We depend on this route. It is still a fundamental question, therefore, whether it is in our national interest to treat these countries in a way that is inadequate to the situation. I only said that because the Foreign Minister took the liberty of taking a small turn on the fact that constitutionality and international law are not actually taken into account at certain moments. I wanted to look at them. That was my first performance here. But in this case, if we don't want to look at them, I just want to know these fundamental economic things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u63	Now I have several actual applications here. I have Mr Heger with Mr Kalousek with Mr Kalousek and Mr Benešík with Mr Benešík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u64	Dear Members of the Government, Madam President, thank you for the floor. I will allow myself to respond briefly by your means to Vice-President Filip. There is no doubt that the problem we are discussing here is that our national interests and questions about how we are to continue our foreign policy, our geopolitical positions, our defence policy, our energy policy. But the main reason why we are discussing this so hard is that the fundamental problem that we need to discuss first and on which we should agree or to which we should take a stand is whether the cast of Crimea was an international crime or not. And if we learn from the Communists that this was not an international crime, we learn, among other things, that the Foreign Minister behaves almost like Che Guevara, we learn that the invitation of the Soviet army to citizens in Crimea was highly justified, so we can say that it was just as justified as the invitation of foreign troops in 1968, so in such a situation where it is said that our foreign policy is perhaps even worse than our policy towards the health system, that we do not have relations with Arab countries, with the European Union, then the basic matter of whether it is an international crime or not is discussed very badly. And we insist that this is the case, because if we don't say it today, we're about to learn about the annexation of other former post-Soviet countries, and maybe in time, the attempts to anectate back the Central European countries of the former Soviet bloc, and it's just a question of whether this will be earlier, or whether an attempt to anexist Alaska, which was once Russia's traditional territory, which Russia lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u65	Mr Kalousek is one of the other ones who has signed up for action, after which Mr Benešík will be prepared for the de facto Member and then Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u66	Thank you for the floor. You see, Vice-President Filip, through Madam President, the difference between us will also be that we both remember the occupation. In both of us, however, the memory clearly causes us to feel diametrically different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u67	Thank you. Another de facto Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I think that this matter should indeed be discussed, particularly in economic terms, but preferably in committees. And in those committees, I would recommend considering whether they should not be closed. I certainly wouldn't dwell on these things in detail in plenary, because I don't think we should give this information to people connected to all sorts of intelligence services in other states this public. If some other committees, such as the Foreign or Defence Committee, did the same thing as the Committee on European Affairs, that they would invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs to consult and receive the information we have received, this discussion would probably be shorter and there would not be so many questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u69	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Stanjura's microphone, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u70	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask my fellow Members from the democratic parties not to waste any time convincing the Communists. The Communist position is clear. Communists haven't changed, they're just like they used to be, it's a waste of time. They have a right to their opinion, I don't take it from them. You can't convince them, we can't convince them. Let's deal with it. [[12.20 hours]] The question is different - what are you wondering when the Vice-President of the Czech Parliament said a few weeks ago that there are different views on the occupation and invitation letter today. Do you really blame them for their opinions? I just don't blame them. I just consider it a waste of time, but we can debate for a long time, and there is no problem with that, that you are trying not to lead the debate to whether we support or do not support the steps of the government - and we have already clearly said in that first part of the debate as opposition that we support the steps of the government, and we will vote accordingly when we get to the vote. But wanting to get to the same Communist level of opinion is just unnecessary work. We really can't do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u71	I thank the honourable Member and with another factual request to the microphone of Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u72	Thank you. I just want to clarify the President of the ODS. You mean, Mr. Chairman, Communists in the KSČM Club or Communists in other Clubs in the Chamber of Deputies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u73	With another de facto Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u74	I, by your means, would reply to President Kalousek. I mean all of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u75	Thank you. Since I have no more factual remarks, please refer to the microphone with the priority right of Secretary of State Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u76	I'd almost like it to be the final word. So I have this ambition that seems a little crazy or naive right now, that I'm really trying to get everyone on one ship and I'm not excluding anybody from that ship and from that deck, and even now I'd like to point out that I don't think it's that difficult. I listened carefully to Mr Filip, and now it is about what is actually being said here in a matter of fact. If I understood him correctly, Mr Filip said that he saw certainty if there were elections in Ukraine if there were presidential and even parliamentary elections in Ukraine. So don't be mad at me, but it's not so hard for me to build a deal here, because if we unthink how we see each other, that everyone has a different assessment of historical events, which I would like to look away from now, because that's a debate that doesn't end, then I'd like to focus on who's saying what. And I can tell you that - and I am not saying it here to say what I, I, I, I said - but because you may be interested in hearing what the Czech Foreign Minister has said, and I am therefore saying that I have repeatedly raised the question of when the elections will be held at a number of meetings of ministers of European countries, even in the presence of the Ukrainian Minister. Are you guaranteeing us the presidential election on May 25th? Can we be confident that the government will seek parliamentary elections in the fall? I asked the Prime Minister about it. I asked the Secretary of State about it in the presence of other ministers. And the resolution adopted by the Foreign Ministers Council stands precisely, and I can read that it is imposed - not imposed, but that the European Union's position is to make efforts to ensure free fair elections, to prepare constitutional reform, so that - and this might also interest you here - all violations of human rights, acts of violence, have been properly investigated, and measures have been taken that will not allow anyone to remain unpunished. This is directly part of the resolution. This means these requirements, which are mentioned here - even for this reason an international panel is to be set up. It is said here that the Ukrainian government is to ensure full protection of the rights of persons belonging to national minorities. There is even a call for cooperation from the Council of Europe, etc. This is part of the European Union's position. I don't blame you for not reading this because I can't ask you to, but remember, these are demands - not only have I repeated some things like the election, but it is in the resolution of the Council of Ministers. And that means, if he asks, for example, what guarantee do we have that this government will fulfil, what certainty we have, well, of course, we don't have that absolute certainty, but I completely agree with the assessment that if we are doing any help, if we are offering financial assistance, etc., then we also have the right to talk about these conditions under which we will release it. And even here it's written. When we talk about the economy, it says here: in the area of combating corruption, measures relating to transparency in the treatment of public money, it is all part of the resolution. But it is also directly stated in the general political area that we believe that the best way to consolidate Ukraine is to make fair free elections as soon as possible. So I have no reason to argue with Mr. Filip here, because I actually share it deeply. I believe that if there are no presidential elections, because unfortunately, I have noticed from Mrs Tymošenková and others such opinions that potentially really question the possibility for me, because I have already seen arguments that might begin to consider that the presidential elections could be postponed, but that is why I have also spoken about this in all those forums that we want guarantees that the elections will actually be held on 25 May, and I even agree with the other view that I think that the parliamentary elections in the autumn would also be very desirable in Ukraine. And so I have no such problem saying that this is a thing that we don't have to argue about, because the arguments are for that, and obviously we're able to ask for them. So I really don't feel the need to argue here at all costs, and it doesn't matter if it's from the right or the left, because maybe the common denominator isn't nearly as impossible as it would seem. And I consider these arguments to be very serious for the election. The question, of course, is, and you can ask me how confident we are that this will actually work. And I can guarantee you that the theme, that we want a road map, that we want a timetable, that we want a timetable, that it always sounds in those conversations, that we want to have an idea of what's going to happen next, how long is this government going to be there - or is it going to be there for three whole years until regular elections? And we don't have a very clear answer to that, and I feel that it's not clear. That means the doubt, and that when we do something, we want to hear that there's a certain guarantee of progress from the other side, that's what we're trying to do. I can tell you that the dispute about this is pointless at this point, because I feel this way. As for the other topics, that is the economic readiness, the readiness in the case of NATO, if things actually start to take place in the worse, perhaps even worse way, that is something that the Czech government is constantly dealing with. I want to assure you that, urgently at this time, there is no threat of security or threat to the Czech Republic due to lack of energy, the supply of energy in the area of gas, because the supplies are so massive that at this time - let's also say due to mild winter - we are supplied fairly reliably. It is also a fact that the Czech Republic has made significant progress in diversification since 2009 in terms of gas supply to the Czech Republic. We have done, and perhaps it is good to say something positive here, we have done what even many of our neighbours have not done, so in this sense the Czech Republic is actually protected relatively even better than some of its neighbours. So I don't think there's any reason for us to discuss this urgently as something that's imminent. On the other hand, I once said here today that the Security Council of the State will be meeting on Monday, on which ministers will issue an inventory of how they are prepared to respond in those three other areas in case the adverse scenarios are carried out. And the idea that was made here a moment ago that it would have been worth talking about in the committees rather than here, which I would have agreed to. So I also consider this topic legitimate for the Czech House and I think that ministers - not only I - are prepared in committees on these perspectives and on these analyses that are already available today, and on the readiness of the Czech Government and the Czech Republic to respond to these scenarios, we are prepared to discuss this in detail in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u77	I thank the Minister and the other one entered in the debate is Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear government, I thought with a proper application, you wouldn't stand a chance. I would just like to proceed with the more specific proposals or considerations on how to respond to the situation. I consider the signing of the political part of the association to be a significant step forward at 11 o'clock today, but I don't think we're going to get out of this crisis. I think it is clear that it must be seen that we have entered a period of reduction of international security, particularly by military force, the annexation of foreign territory, border disruption, and blocking of the Security Council. [[12.30 hours]] In these circumstances, it seems important to me from our perspective that we need to strengthen the collective defence and security of democratic countries in Europe, particularly through the North Atlantic Alliance, and it is therefore important for each Member State to consider its options to respond and strengthen collective defence in this situation. For this reason, I would propose, and in a detailed debate, I will read the proposals: "First, to consider for the next budget an increase in defence expenditure for 2015 at least to 1,3% of GDP and in subsequent years to the level to which we committed ourselves at the entry into the North Atlantic Alliance, that is, 2% of GDP. We could reach this level in 2017. I think it is important that we realise how much we are able to live up to our commitments to the North Atlantic Alliance in this situation, and how very important it is for Europe's security, so that it has the capacity to defend itself effectively. This is the first thing - i.e. for 2015 to the level of 1,3 per cent and towards 2017 to the level of 2 per cent. Secondly, in view of what we have seen both in Majdan in Ukraine and in view of the fact that I believe that the Czech Republic is a highly trusted partner of the Ukrainian Government and Parliament, then I would recommend that, following the Ukrainian elections, the Czech Government create a financial aid package for Ukraine to help strengthen the civilian and democratic control of the armed forces, where we have quite a lot of experience in transforming ourselves, so that we cannot see the events that we have seen in Ukraine, that is, the use of armed forces against our own population. I believe that this should not be a large amount. I think we have this know-how, and I think that unlike many other allies in the region, our assistance and transfer of experience towards increasing security in relations between the armed forces, the civilian government and the civil parliament towards Ukraine would be an important step in our mutual cooperation. In conclusion, because it has fallen several times here, I just have to say that in the past, we have not been able to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Defence Committee of this House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u79	Thank you, Mr Gabal, and I have here on the actual application of Mr Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. I would have yours through three notes. First to my colleague Gabal. Two percent of GDP - this is unrealistic in the current economic situation. And as for raising money for defense, I'm in. Anyway, we need to clear up. Because if it doesn't add up to 1.5 billion last year, and this year it looks similar, any increase is wrong. That's the first thing. And the second thing - the current situation in Ukraine and the government's position. You know, I get dozens of e-mails a day from our citizens. Please, really, let us end this discussion and go back to discussing the issues that are bothering the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u81	I thank the honourable Member and please the microphone of Mr Laudát, who is signed up for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u82	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I will limit myself to thanking the Foreign Minister for his courage, especially in his own party. klobouk down, I'm very much rethinking my opinion of him in a positive way. To Mr Šarapatek, what he said here, you know, given that for 40 years we have been victims of the very global realm of interest, we should fundamentally reject this approach on the planet in the third millennium. Just no nation, though great, small, has great territory, great military strength, should have the right to draw other nations into their spheres of interest, no matter how great they are. That's an outrage, and Mr. Brzezinski was right, no doubt, but he was right for the second millennium, not for the third. Today is a different situation, and I don't think this really belongs on our Earth anymore. I would ask the government, in the light of the behaviour of the Russian Federation in recent months, to rethink energy policy from the point of view of energy security, to significantly increase aid to our entrepreneurs in the direction of other countries, because whatever happens, now there will be that undertone of concern about Russia, what will happen next. I think the Rus have done a lot of damage to their behavior in Crimea, and even though the sanctions are really symbolic, it's probably unprovoked, so for businessmen, investors - they might eventually understand what Putin did to them. It will not be discussed anywhere, just the world will simply look for safe ports for its investments elsewhere, or it will always protect them as risky investments with less favourable conditions. I think that the government should - because I agree that the only phenomenon that can say, the sovereign where Ukraine will go next, is the Ukrajinec. But let us prepare for the outcome of the elections in any way, and then expect a fairly large wave of emigration from Ukraine. It can happen, I wouldn't want it, so let the government prepare themselves quietly for this humane black scenario. Of course, she should find out and act in the case of the Volyně Czechs after all. This is where we were discussing who we're gonna let in, who we're not gonna let in, who's gonna parasite on our social system. Here we can help our natives. It is on the day the statistics came out that for the first time - I do not know how many decades or years - the population of the Czech Republic has fallen, albeit by some 3.5 or 3,000 so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u83	I thank Mr Laudát and please give Mr Lank's factual comment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to stress that the entry of the armed forces of one state into the territory of another sovereign state is something that I do not agree with and will not agree with. I think we can agree on that across the political spectrum. In view of the course of the discussion, it is probably not entirely from the point of view of the words of the Foreign Minister Zaorálek, who was heard in this House yesterday. Let me quote them: I would like to point out how surprisingly similar the features of these revolutions are. Let us remember that even in Crimea government buildings began to occupy, even in Crimea began to post flags, only others, even in Crimea began to move armed men without a name, without a clear identity, without a clear identification. Like the militia, etc. You are surprised to find that a number of elements of the Crimean revolution have surprisingly similar characteristics like what happened in Ukraine. End of quote. Dear colleagues, I am not an expert on foreign policy, I admit, but within some common sense I would very much warn against applauding the revolution first thoughtlessly, and condemning the other thoughtlessly. I don't stand for either, but we should take the same subway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u85	I thank the honourable Member and, given that I have no one else entered into the general debate, I am ending the general debate. Before I proceed to a detailed debate, I would like to inform you that the club presidents have agreed to close today's meeting at 13:00. We will therefore now proceed to the debate in detail, in which I have Mr Ženíšek signed up and then Mrs Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u86	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward a motion for a resolution with which I have already introduced you during the general debate on Wednesday this week. The text of the motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to strongly enforce consistent measures against the Russian Federation at all EU summits, including on-the-spot economic measures, which will lead to the end of the Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine's sovereign state. The imperial claims of the Russian Federation on Ukrainian territory are understood by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a potential threat to the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, which has been a Soviet satellite for decades. Defence of the sovereign Ukrainian territory guaranteed by international treaties is therefore also a defence of the security and sovereignty of the Czech Republic." Should it happen that this motion for a resolution has not passed, I will allow myself, in the interest of finding a common path and compromise, to submit an alternative motion for a resolution which I would like to vote on immediately thereafter, or if the previous motion for a resolution is not adopted. The text is very short and clear and reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic supports the Government of the Czech Republic in a consistent procedure within the European Union against the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u87	Thank you, honourable Member. another one entered in the detailed debate is Mrs Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u88	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced my motion for a resolution, so let me just read it to you. It has three points, the fourth point was then proposed by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček. So I'll read his point, too, but it's his proposal. "1. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes the information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the current situation in Ukraine. 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects the violent anexi of part of the territory of Ukraine, Crimea, by the Russian Federation. This procedure is a violation of international law. 3. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic supports the Government of the Czech Republic in negotiations on joint action within the European Union, NATO and other international organisations in dealing with the situation in Ukraine." These are my proposals for a resolution, now a proposal from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček. It reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to address the situation of Czech compatriots in Ukraine." These are the proposals so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u89	Have a good noon. I will call my colleagues from the lobby, but before I vote on the proposal, the President of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Mr Fiala, first came forward with a factual point of view in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u90	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, Colleagues. Allow me to make a motion for a resolution of the Dawn movement. "We call on the European Union, the United States of America, Russia and Ukraine to open negotiations to prevent further growth in violence in Ukraine and to allow Ukraine to be transformed into a democratic state that respects the rights of all the nations and nationalities living there. We regard the change of government in Kiev as unconstitutional and as unconstitutional, we regard any change in Ukraine's borders without the consent of all its citizens." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u91	Thank you to Chairman Fial. With another proposal, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u92	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. After the Úsvit movement scared Obama and Putin, allow me to descend into the average waters of our negotiations and appeal to my protest against some of our colleagues being called observers of the Czech Republic in the so-called Crimean referendum. [[entertainment in the hall]] I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic distances itself from the participation of its members in the so-called Crimean referendum and strongly refuses to be called observers from the Czech Republic'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u93	Thank you to President Kalousek. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. With a point of fact, Mr Member, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u94	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would like to follow Mr Kalousek's motion for this resolution, and I would just like to say that Members who have been following the events in Crimea have also organised their journey by an ex-member of social democracy, Miloslav Soušek. And I just want to say that he's the mayor of High Myth, or a town where the Soviet crew has been for 20 years. For 20 years, this city suffered under that Soviet crew. And this man, together with two Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, will then perform in the Russian media and say "vsyo charashó." It's just if you can realize the absurdity of this procedure and this behavior. I would still like to say to these Members who were there to see if everything was okay, and to assess that the mood was wonderful, the atmosphere was great, the smiling people - if they had visited the Czechoslovak border in 1938 with an observation mission, they would certainly also have seen smiling and happy people. And one final point. Next time you go on an observation mission to North Korea, I'll bet you'll see happy, smiling people in those polling rooms who'll be okay, there won't be soldiers anywhere in the streets. I'll bet you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u95	I thank Mr. Junek. With a proper application, please, Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u96	Mr President, colleagues. I will read the proposals I said in the general debate as a motion for a resolution on the situation in Ukraine. "1. In connection with the deterioration of the security situation in Europe as a result of the armed annexation of Crimea, we propose an increase in expenditure on defence of the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic budget for 2015 to 1.3 percent of GDP and in the following years gradually up to 2 percent in the budget for 2017. 2. In view of helping Ukraine's internal stabilisation and security, the Government should set up a package of assistance for the transfer of knowledge and experience in the field of democratic and civilian control of the armed forces in order to eliminate the likelihood of abuse of the armed forces against the civilian population with political objectives.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u97	I thank Mr Gabal. I'd like you to hand it over to the rapporteur. Thank you. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Mr. Kováčik. Mr. President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club, prosit. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while we have received some proposals for a resolution, I believe, in two forms, I saw them this morning -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u99	Ambassador, I'm sorry, I'm going to interrupt you, and I'm asking you not to continue until the House has calmed down completely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u100	Then I'll never get to the word of it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u101	Mr. Chairman, I'm an optimist. Believe me, you will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u102	Thank you, Mr President. We read the proposals, they were quite clear to us. However, now in a detailed debate, a number of other proposals have been read here, and even those we have received in writing have been read in a different version with changes that have not been recorded there. I'm a rather experienced MP here, and I can watch and even record things. But at that speed, it was not possible to note things so that with a clear conscience we knew what we were voting on. I ask that these proposals be tabled in writing to Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u103	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another proper application with priority rights, the President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček came forward. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u104	Thank you. I have now consulted this matter, and the truth is that there have been a number of motions for resolutions. It is also true that on such a serious matter it would be good to know exactly what the precise wordings are, what we will vote on and what the implications of these resolutions will be. So I would suggest the following procedure if he agreed to do so. In order to complete the detailed debate, after the close of the detailed debate, to interrupt this item and interrupt it by Tuesday at 14 p.m. so that the first item on Tuesday may be the vote on this item. Until such time as Members have at their disposal the written texts of these proposed resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u105	I thank the President for his proposal. Mr Miroslav Opálka, President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u106	Mr President, I have a procedural proposal that the negotiations should not be concluded after a detailed debate, but in a detailed debate, so that any amendments to the proposals which will be tabled in writing can still be used.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u107	Thank you. Is that a procedural proposal, Mr. Ambassador, please, which one do you want to vote on now?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u108	To interrupt negotiations in a detailed debate, not after a detailed debate. And I'll leave you to your will as you do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u109	So it's not a procedural proposal, you leave it to my will. Thank you. I do not consider it appropriate to interrupt this in a detailed debate. I am very happy to finish the detailed debate, which is why I am asking who else is reporting for the detailed debate. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u110	We were supposed to be here by 2:00, then on the basis of the agreement of the presidents of the MPs, if I was generous, we said at 13. Nothing against the Communists' request, but there weren't that many proposals. It was only about understanding the text in the Czech language. I understand that for some who are good at reading, I a little worse, in understanding texts it can be a problem. But it's just a matter of purpose, that's all it is. We may as well interrupt this, the two proposals that have been made beyond what has already been said in the general debate, and not only today, but also the previous days, it may well be. The dispute, whether or not the debate is interrupted, almost doesn't matter. All we have to do is get out of any of the ministers next week and the debate will be reopened. I guess we don't have to argue about that. I just wanted to say that we are able to vote today, we are able to understand the text, at least many of us. But I get that somebody just doesn't want to vote on it, so they want to postpone it. I think we're ready to respect that. There weren't that many suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u111	Thank you to the President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u112	And I'm sorry, one last thing. If anyone is saying - I think the President of the Chamber of Deputies, I think he said it more as part of his reputation as a friend to all Members of the Chamber of Deputies - that we want to evaluate the implications of the adoption of the resolution, so we are not able to evaluate the impact of the resolution, because we do not know how anyone will respond to those resolutions. But I understand that some still want to think about whether they're in favour or against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u113	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister now. With another priority right, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 is also, of course, ready to vote immediately when you decide to do so. However, here I am asking my precious colleague Zbyněk Stanjura to understand. If we assume good will, and I would like to assume it, to find the broadest majority position of the Chamber of Deputies, which in its own way gives a mandate to the Government of the Czech Republic, we have enough experience from international negotiations as well, how long and difficult to find a common position, perhaps on just one single word. If we vote now or in 20 minutes, we will vote on the formulas as they have been presented, don't take them the way they are. And I would like to believe, even though I may be naive, that someone over the weekend will reconsider the amendment to that proposal, where really one or two words that will be altered and acceptable to all of us will allow that position to be as broad as possible. Because that's how it works. Because we have these experiences when we formulate positions. So, perhaps surprisingly, I recommend not only President Hamáček's proposal, but also the amendment of the Member's proposal... [[The MPs say, "Opals."]] Opals. Excuse me, colleague, we've only known each other for 20 years. [[With a smile.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u115	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another priority right, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u116	Thank you. Just two notes. I'd turn against the suspicion that someone here doesn't want to vote. I will say openly to the record here that I am prepared to support the motion for a resolution as proposed by Mrs Němcová. Where I am unsure and where this needs to be evaluated, President Stanjuro, through the President, there are proposals that have an impact on the budget of the Czech Republic. And if anyone's proposing changes to the defense budget, I don't think we're in a position to commit the government now or recommend that the government move our defense budget. And if you wanted an example, through the President, what needs to be evaluated, this needs to be evaluated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u117	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such proposal, there was a procedural motion by President Jan Hamáček to conclude a detailed debate on this point, to interrupt negotiations and to continue on Tuesday. [[Disagree in plenary.]] The point is to interrupt after the end of the detailed debate, exactly so. [[Disagree mainly from the KSČM ranks.]] Okay, I will be helpful and interrupt at the request of Mr Opálka and the President of the MP now without ending the detailed debate. I'm interrupting this point until Tuesday, when we're going to continue it. Please make a factual point - or Mrs Němcová will speak as rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u118	He's already interrupted the point, so a little off. But in that case, Mr Vice-President, you need to arrange for the motion for a resolution, as read in the detailed debate, to be delivered to the Members' Clubs as quickly as possible by the Chamber of Deputies. It is Friday one o'clock, probably a large part of the Members will leave during Friday afternoon, so on Monday, the clubs would have an opportunity to sit down if they wanted to reconcile their positions. And it is necessary for the House's apparatus to deliver these motions for resolutions to individual parliamentary clubs as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-21-ps2013-007-04-001-055.u119	Thank you. On behalf of the House of Deputies, I promise the rapporteur that we will arrange it. With a factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Borka? No, so I'm erasing. So, according to the general discussion, I'm interrupting this item by Tuesday at 14 o'clock. [[13.00 hours]] We'll proceed to the next point we have on the agenda.
