ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u1	79. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 /German press 331/ - 3rd reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Amendments to the draft law submitted are in print 331/3. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Before I open the debate, I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Votava, to present a set of amendments and to present a proposal for a voting procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'll open the debate after your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, government, you have certainly received, on the one hand, a set of amendments, which were approved in the Committee on Budgets under A, and, on the other hand, a set of amendments, which were loaded at second reading. They're under the letter "B." Those are the two files we're going to vote on. Mr. Chairman, shall I propose a voting procedure?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u3	Yes, suggest a procedure and then, of course, it is possible to hold a debate on both the procedure and other things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u4	Okay. So the procedure will be the following. Firstly, we should vote on the amendments that have been agreed and are under the heading A in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. I propose that we vote the resolution of the Committee on Budgets as a whole, unless, of course, there is an objection to this procedure. Secondly, we would vote on the amendments that were read at second reading, that is, the amendments under the letters B1 to B22, unless there is an amendment that is not voteable, and I will, of course, point out this in time. Finally, we would vote on the law as a whole with the amendments adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u5	That was the design of the procedure. Anyone reporting for the procedure? The procedure, Mr. Ambassador? Mr. Volný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur. I object to the procedure. I propose that the resolution of the Committee on Budgets be voted on a case-by-case basis, namely point A6, A7, A11, A12, A14 and A15. After voting on these points, the remainder of the budget committee resolution en bloc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u7	I ask the rapporteur whether he agrees with this counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u8	Yes, I accept that the points raised by my colleague Volný should be voted separately from the resolution of the Committee on Budgets and that the remaining points should then be voted en bloc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u9	Yeah, okay. The procedure? Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u10	I think there is no reason not to comply with this request, but in that case, it is logical that we vote on each item in the Committee on Budgets separately, not only on torn out. I think we can agree on that, and it is also in line with the proposal of my fellow Member, Mr Volný. So I propose that we vote separately on every item in the budget committee resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u11	Yes. I will ask the rapporteur whether he accepts this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u12	I mean, why not give this objection to Stanjura, we can vote on all points, but it will only be a little longer. All points from the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u13	Okay, so it's also conflict-free. Anyone else applying for the procedure? If not, for the record, it is still a state budget, I would like to vote on following the procedure in the vote, as proposed by the rapporteur, and on how Mr Stanjura and Mr Stanjura's proposals have been adapted. [[9.20 hours]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 102, registered as 176, for 160, against no one, this proposal has been adopted. That makes it clear how we are going to vote, and I am opening up a debate where I have Mr Kalousek's application. After that, with priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Sorry, Mr President - Mrs Berdychová apologizes for today's negotiations, for health reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you a question. Dear Minister of Finance, at second reading, we asked you quite a lot of questions, whose answers were quite essential for us to consider today's vote. Whatever we've analyzed your final speech, as we've analyzed it, with any care, at best will, it may be our fault, we haven't found the only answer to the questions we've asked here. I do not want to delay the Chamber of Deputies by repeating the questions now and making demands on those answers. After all, the debate on public budgets is continuous and will certainly last the whole of next year. But I consider one answer to be absolutely crucial, and I very much ask that you give it to the Chamber of Deputies before we vote. You said in your closing speech that budgets are improving. It is in direct contradiction with what you yourself put in the documentation for the state budget, i.e. the law on which you will vote. In this document, in the annex, you state in the H-book that, while public budgets have been improving every year since 2009, the trend has changed in 2014, when there was a deterioration, and in 2015 there is a deterioration compared to 2014. That is your statement, Minister, which you also demonstrate in your documentation by convincing numbers in the tables. She is indeed true, and here your documentation is absolutely convincing and your numbers are true. There's a deterioration. My question is simple and I ask for a simple answer. Why do you consider it necessary to make public budgets worse in 2015 than in previous years? Why? Why is it good for the Czech Republic to deteriorate the state of the public budget? What will this bring to the citizens of the Czech Republic, what will it do for the future of our country if we have worse public budgets in 2015 than in previous years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u15	Thank you. I register the Minister of Finance's application, but before that, two preferential rights. Vice-President Filip, then President Fiala and then Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the State budget for 2015. In terms of first and second reading, our experts from the KSČM club commented, and I would like to sum up some of the things that lead me to decide not only to my KSČM club but also not to support the state budget for 2015 for the Czech Republic. Since the beginning of this government's operation, the KSČM MP club has tried to meet the proposals that have led to the elimination of the worst problems of Czech society, which have left the right-wing coalition rule here since 2006. It's been a lot. These were not only health fees, a change in the social system, a catastrophic underfinancing of some chapters, including education, science, research and essentially stopping investment, which could change the situation in which not only the Czech economy found itself after the crisis. The results of the government's negotiations and the results that we have achieved here in the Chamber of Deputies do not lead to us agreeing here for 2015 a budget that would end decisively with a crisis that is accompanied by the whole Czech economy, including the Czech society, because we remain in it. You said, and I don't blame it, you have a majority as a government coalition, that first you stop those holes in the state budget and in individual chapters, so that the money you put in each chapter doesn't flow. I can agree with that. But no one has ever spared any development. It always had to be made first, it had to be changed first. In this respect, the postponement of a decision to amend fundamental tax laws, in particular corporate tax and income tax on individuals, seems to me to be a very bad step. Of course, this has also provided a clear basis for how you will receive revenue for 2015. In this respect, you have not been able to look people in the eye as a government and say: we need such tax revenue for the changes that we are planning, with which we have won the elections, and so we will do something about it. She, forgive me, the cosmetic change in value added tax, of course, cannot ensure a change in tax revenue, and the Minister of Finance, as well as the other members of the government, know this very well. In this respect, we cannot expect the 2015 budget to be a budget that will prepare the Czech Republic for further development and growth of economic performance. The individual attempts to expand our economic opportunities abroad were really individual, were not systematic, and in this respect our exports, which is the decisive moment for the development of the Czech economy, will not increase even next year, and, unfortunately, you also know, despite the activities of the Minister of Industry and Trade, which I appreciate. With regard to the question of control, as I have already said, I do not question your step, which leads to this changed approach to individual chapters, but in a fundamental way I miss what you have not done here. This means the Act on the Supreme Audit Office, which would reflect its scope in other spheres of activity, especially in public funds, in public corporations, etc. The law on financial control in public administration, which was the subject of huge discussions in this House and there was a dispute not from left to right, but within political parties according to who was interested in really dealing with corruption in this state, you did not do that either. Believe it or not, this will be a very complex problem that will occur here in checking your 2014 state final account results because you do not have in your hand the instrument that you could prepare, make and accept here, as it was prepared in 2012, and for logical reasons those who were overgrown by corruption was not accepted in 2013. Why we didn't accept him in this House in 2014, you have to ask yourself. [[9.30 hours]] Why, to this day, there is no law on property returns, you also have to ask yourself, because you have not taken the second basic step against corruption in this regard. And don't be mad at me, this investigation of yours seems like an eye wiper, that the law is a nice name, but its content doesn't match what is to be dealt with. It is a problem that persists in health systems, social systems, but also in incentive systems. I am convinced that for 2014, your priorities for the legislative plan did not correspond to what you promised in the government statement. I am sorry, but the KSČM as an opposition party could do nothing more than submit a law on property returns for you, a law on executioners, where a large number of funds are actually running and instead of dealing with the relationship between the debtor and the creditor, rather a good secured income to a narrow group of private employees who are tying up what the state has prepared for them. In this respect, I note that the state budget, as it is built, consists of 90 per cent of the laws that have been adopted here for seven years, so that a group, I would say the top ten thousand, would enrich itself at the expense of all the rest of the population, and it does not ensure even a little bit of gripping of the scissors, which here over the seven years from 2006 to 2013 have been opened in a fundamental way. In this respect, therefore, the budget cannot express the interests of those represented by the KSČM. So let me be clear - we, as the opposition, will continue to pursue constructively where we see that you are able to fulfill your electoral program, where you are able to close the scissors that are opening inside the society, where you are able to at least by gradual steps to remedy the horror that right-wing governance has left us. So let me say - we will not reject the state budget, but we cannot bear responsibility for it, because you have not taken the fundamental steps that would lead you to meet the primary objective of reducing the level of corruption, to change tax laws that will be fair and lead to a dignified life for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u17	Good morning. I thank Vice-President Filip. Another registered priority right is the President of the Civil Democratic Party Petr Fiala, after whom Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really will only speak briefly, and when I say that I will speak briefly, unlike other speakers, I am speaking very briefly. In short, I can speak because the Civil Democratic Party has been very thorough here, we have asked questions, we have discussed individual figures, we have actually represented all members and members of the Civic Democratic Party MEP's club. We wanted to find out what is the consistency between the declared objectives of this budget and the figures, because we feel that this is in contradiction. Unfortunately, in the debate - and I think this has been clearly shown by the debate during the second reading of this budget - we have not received practically any answers, and I must say that we have been very disappointed. On the other hand, I cannot say that this discussion is useless and that I personally would not know new things. For example, I have understood the fundamental influence of carousel shops on all the problems our economy has, and of course I will be prepared if my colleagues in the scientific world complain that there is not enough funding for research in this budget, which is not objectively there, so I can tell them that if they are more involved in the fight against carousel fraud, they will undoubtedly improve the situation. I also understand the way Prime Minister Sobotka thinks about his government. I understand from the budget presentation that the Prime Minister believes that there is another right-wing government in addition to his government to which he must fight, the right-wing government, which is made up of the Civil Democratic Party and Miroslav Kalousek. Of course, I respect the idea to a large extent, someone believes in masons, someone in Illuminati, but I don't think it helps a person to see things really, and maybe that's one of the reasons why this budget is prepared really badly. The citizens' Democrats cannot support this budget, and I have promised to speak briefly, so on six points, I will sum up what is most annoying about it. It's a kind of six offenses against good economics that we can find in the government budget of Bohuslav Sobotka. 1. Money for investment is falling, and it is very significant. 2. The funds for science and research are falling, and we can hardly compete with other countries without developing these things. 3. Expenditure on the operation of ministries, on the operation of the state, increases bureaucracy. 4. The number of officials also grows where it is completely unnecessary, e.g. At the Office of the Government. 5. Mandator spending is historically at the highest level and, of course, the government has to take somewhere from investment. 6. Everything the government collects on taxes thanks to a good economy, it actually gives away instead of investing, instead of supporting active citizens, entrepreneurs, looking for ways to solve the pension system, how to help families with children. This government gives away money that doesn't belong to it, it doesn't plan to invest, it doesn't plan to save, it doesn't plan to evaluate, but it wants to eat, distribute, spend. With this government budget, Bohuslav Sobotka is not only taking our money, but also taking a piece of our future and the future of our children. Such a budget cannot be supported, and therefore the Civil Democratic Party will vote against its approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u19	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Another with priority rights is signed by Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, when I read the budget at second reading and talked about the measures, the opposition laughs at me. I don't understand why. Why are these carousel stores ridiculous? I'd start with Mr. Fiala. I'm gonna try to talk so that my opponents understand me. On Monday night, I sat next to French Prime Minister Mr. Valls and told him about the carousel shops. I have told him that the European Union has no money, because it is a flower, they do not have loans, they owe 25 billion to the Member States. The euro will owe us 2.5 billion by the end of the year. The euro and some Member States say we have no money, like Great Britain, we will pay on instalments. On the other hand, according to European Union statistics, VAT gap, which means a hole in VAT or non-VAT payments, the Member States of the European Union have lost 177 billion. EUR in 2012. It's different in every state. In those who are better off from the point of view of everything - corruption, happiness, people's feelings, how well they are - e.g. Finland has 5 %, Holland has 5 %. Romania 44 % and the Czech Republic 22 %. 22 percent is 3.2 billion. EUR, that's 108 billion. Crowns. [[9.40 hours]] So as for me, if you're reading the papers, and Mr. King of the Spirit Mafia Březina is telling us how he cheated on the state in taxes of 6.7 billion, that's tax fraud. And carousel business is organized crime. Those are sophisticated groups like Mr. Zadeh we had arrested at the Hilton. He had a network of 70 companies. We just arrested him, but he lost us 4.5 billion. So we had bad luck. So the carousel business has a solution, and the solution is called reverse charge - transferring the tax liability to the last one in the chain. This is what I came up with at the Finance Ministers' meeting in Brussels. Everyone was watching what I was talking about. . [[A round of applause for some Members of the TOP 09]] Then I organized a meeting of the Minister of Finance of Germany, Austria, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Croatia in Prague. And the interesting thing is, everyone agrees. They agree that we should decide the competence of reverse charge independently of the European Commission, that we should decide as a sovereign state and not have to ask the European Commission whether we can include reverse charge mineral oil or grain on the list, or now it is popular marketing - fraud. And that's basic. I am taking concrete steps to convince the European Union and to change it to our proposal from the Czech Republic, which has not proposed much in history to the European Union, but we have been kicking our ankles and, under the Presidency, we have knocked down the government. So here is a concrete proposal from the Czech Republic so that the European Union gives us more competence and we did not have to ask whether we could put on reverse charge wine, beer etc. I'm having lunch with the D.G. staff on Thursday this week, and I'm gonna convince them. I convinced the Italian ambassador, too. Italy's response is positive. The Francouz were here, they also say, "Yeah. The Francouz has a big debt problem. So I'm working on it, and on January 27, at 6:00 p.m., I have an appointment with Commissioner Moscovici in Brussels. So these are concrete steps where we say to the European Union: it is absurd when the European Union has no money, and on the other hand, it loses 177 billion a year. EUR on tax defaults. It's obvious we're not gonna be able to solve everything. Even the Němec have one percent of their dues. But I think if we do and we get this competence, we can do up to 60 billion. to prevent this, and I repeat, from being robbed of these systems every year. So this is the concrete and fastest initiative. From the point of view of tax collection, of course, I found a resort that was not managed, which was in decay. Financial Administration - we had to file a criminal report on the former head of the financial administration, because the IT systems that were there and that were draining senselessly money, so we're dealing with it. The administration is in some condition. That is why we have what we have actually done, from Prague tax haven. That's why we're changing it now. We change it by not going to check in Prague once every 320 years, but they will come more often. Thousands of companies that moved to Prague so that we couldn't control them, of course, we want to change that. We're hiring 600 people. Yes, we need to recruit more people to the Financial Administration so that the Financial Administration can regain its authority. So those who don't pay taxes don't make fun of them for coming to the Bentleys and laughing at our Financial Administration employees when they don't pay taxes for five years. Similarly, we are in the Customs Service. It's an alcohol problem. We've filed several criminal reports. Unfortunately, probably some Customs employees did not carry out their activities as they should. Plus, for the first time, apart from the fact that we want to fix these two institutions, of course, we're coming up with some major system proposals and tax collection measures for the first time, because the basic program of our movement was that we don't want to raise taxes. We want to collect the taxes. We want those who pay taxes in our country to do business on equal terms and have no competition from those who do not pay taxes. Therefore, a check report that works abroad. That's why the Croatian model. So, of course, these are fundamental proposals to improve tax collection. And of course, Mr Filip is also wrong about the bill on the proof of property. Yes, we've wasted a little time in the coalition's debate on whether to go the way of financial or judicial, but the proposal is ready and will basically still be discussed by the government this year. And we'll be the first to do it again. I mean, we've already passed a non-tax benefit report into the law. Because how did it go in the past? The tax office asked: "Dear sir, you have $50 million worth of property. Where'd you get that? Where did you tax it? The answer was: I got from my grandmother, or I inherited something, or I found a picture of Picasso in the attic. We're changing this. There will be an obligation to report it if someone wins or gets $100 million, he should report it. So these are the specific things we do. And I fundamentally reject criticism because the resort really wasn't managed. So we will also submit, and this is actually after inter-ministerial commentary, an amendment to the Gaming Act, which will, of course, also have a link to sport. So I must also reject Mr Filip's comments on responsibility. We're ripping off the law on responsibility because the politician had no responsibility. Yes. Mr Vondra as Minister for European Affairs within the ProMoPro case is not prosecuted. Eleven employees of his office are being prosecuted there. So we want the minister or his deputy to give some kind of order to his subordinates to take responsibility for it. It's normal in the business world. He's not in the state. Politicians have so far given various controversial orders and, in fact, suffered or were prosecuted by their subordinate officials. So that's what we're working on. We also want to narrow down and change financial control at all, because if the European funds are controlled today by the Financial Authority and the Ministry and the SAO and the European Commission etc., so we want to make a fundamental change, especially not to control two years after the subsidies have been drawn, then it is already too late. Then we're just making payments and penalty payments on cities, municipalities, regions, so within the budget, we're taking it from the right pocket to the left. The same case is actually de facto ProMoPro. So we're also preparing it, and we want to simplify it. He won't be there to control the financial office and the county anymore. But it's designed. [[9.50 hours]] Our movement strongly supports the adoption of the laws of the Reconstruction of the State, which means we would like the SAO's law on the competences of the SAO, which Mr Filip here spoke of, to finally leave the Senate and to adopt it. It's with the contract register anyway. It takes a long time for my taste, but I'm sure we want a transparent budget. How does that budget work, anyway? Well, I've inherited a Treasury that's gonna cost us about 6.2 billion in ten years. Crowns. And the cash register doesn't even have accounting. She only has budget chapters. So actually when we talk about the budget, we don't see - accounting has individual departments, but we don't see specific contracts. We can't even have a debate about it. The same cash register in Austria came out for a third and includes a central register of contracts, includes cash flow State, includes central purchase, payment service. We don't have it at all. And of course we plan to, we want to do it. But we're basically at the beginning of the road. So the position of the Treasury is, of course, in a completely different position in terms of negotiation than if we could actually see into the bowels of that budget. By the way, we're doing as much legislation as possible. I've been criticized for having a bad turnout here, but I've been watching how many resorts have passed laws... So far it's been 100. And my resort presented 24. So she's not that bad. Of course, from the point of view of the budget, various amendments have been tabled here. As Minister, I'm trying to be transparent. Of course, I express myself openly to other resorts - health care... Now they're supposed to go to the instrument committee again for some equipment for the hospital in Zlín, which is in debt, for 300 miles. I also said that it would probably be good for the committee to deal with the prices, not just the placement of the instruments. And sports. There was a changeling here for a billion sports. So please, we definitely need more money for sports, but we need it for youth clubs, we need it to support sports teaching in primary schools. And I'm asking why a Mr. Ječmínek last year, the head of the Auto Club, got 90 miles. Crowns. Mr. Ječmínek's first vice-chairman who destroyed Sazka. The one who signed Hušák's salary for 960 grand. And then he signed his bonus. Those who destroyed Sazka, who put a billion in sports. That's how this gentleman got to the boiler room now 6.7 miles. and 3 miles. To keep the building warm. So I think we need an audit in sports. Sports audit, club audit, see how it's financed. Last year, some contribution from the lottery company for the Czech Olympic Committee was dug up, money for investments, for operation. I'm asking why it's not together. Because some youth clubs, if they get 100 grand, they'll be happy. Why we give 40 miles. some kind of football stadium? So we definitely need more money for sports, we need a system, we need to get to know the system. And I'm sure I'll support the sport. But we really do need it not for concrete, but for our children, who according to statistics are not as fit as the physical condition. I don't mean to say they're obese, but I'm sure there's a big spare in sports. I would go back to the beginning to Mr Kalousek. I'm just gonna repeat. I do not know what numbers Mr Kalousek reads. I would repeat this year again. The budget is 112 billion, I hope we end up somewhere at 80. In doing so, we released the consumption. And mainly thanks to our government, domestic demand has increased. We brought confidence and revival of consumers, not restrictions. [[Laughter from the right]] We're not saying there's a crisis. We are doing quite well in terms of comparison of growth with the surrounding countries. And the state is in the state as it is. So I don't know who doesn't understand numbers. Originally, the deficit was 120 billion, and I planned it for 100 billion. Of course, there were pressures in the debates from May to September to increase the deficit. But the bottom line is, this year, when I compare our country's debt, the end of 2013 and the end of 2014, we're probably going to be able to cut absolute debt by 20 billion. So 2012, 2013 was an increase in debt. We're gonna lower it. And it's been a long time. A small reduction, but it is. And anyway, we planned it for next year, even if the deficit is 100 billion, so of course I'm going to try to make it significantly lower. So I want this trend to go down. So we don't go into debt, and that's a priority. That's why I think the budget is good, because the originally planned deficit at 120 is at 100, the debt will be the same. I don't understand what we're talking about. I think we have presented this budget in a very untraditional, transparent manner, discussed with employers, trade unions, all of them. We changed the tradition that it was impossible to tripartite two days before the deadline, but that we actually discussed it. That's why I think the budget is very good. Of course, the state has reserves, even resorts have reserves, and we have a long way to go. But I think the trend is very good. And I really don't understand where my colleagues come up with the numbers that they're presenting here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u21	I thank the Minister and I have three factual points here. First colleague Kalousek, then colleague Stanjura, then Mr Novotný. So, your two minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u22	Thank you for the floor. If it weren't for those numbers, Minister, you might even be a persuasive speaker. But since these numbers exist, it's a very considerate thing to do. [[applause from the right]] The resort, which you said you inherited in the expansion, collected taxes with efficiency certainly not ideal, but historically highest. After a year of your activity, the efficiency of tax collection has plummeted. And it's documented on specific numbers according to international standards, those numbers are traceable in public sources. After a year, the efficiency of your tax collection decreases, although verbally you talk about it very convincingly. If you ask me, where do I take the numbers - please here - the H-book, an annex to the State Budget Act. [[shows the green notebook]] Your file signed by you says that since 2009 - I've given you the notebook, it's mine, but you wrote it. [[Laughter from the right]] Your documentation says that public budgets - countries are judged by the state of public budgets - have improved from 2009 every year until 2014, when there has been a change in trend and worsening. And in 2015, there's a further deterioration. And you're proving it with compelling tables and numbers that are true. If you're asking me where I got this - in your proposal! And I'm just asking why you think it's necessary to make public budgets worse. And you're saying - I'm not making it worse, I'm making it better. But you're writing to all of us that you're making it worse - and you're right in your written, not verbal speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u23	Mr Stanjura, then Mr Novotný, and then Mr Vice Prime Minister also wants to respond - I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u24	I will take a bit of advantage of the factual remarks, because the Rules of Procedure say that it responds to the things that have been raised on this point, and the Minister of Finance has spoken for over 20 minutes, but he has said absolutely nothing about the state budget. Then they wonder why we keep repeating our questions. Nothing to ask basic questions about why investment is reduced, why money is reduced for science and research. My colleagues and colleagues performed very closely in their second reading with specific questions about individual chapters. Even though we don't control the Treasury, we were able to read weak spots in the materials and ask questions. But to be fair and not just critical, it is a pity that today there is no transmission from the Czech Parliament to all European parliaments, because Minister Babiš has found a solution for all the countries of the European Union. He's already dealt with them once. On Thursday instead of interpelling, he was at lunch at DG and saves the entire European Union. Now he's telling us about hundreds of billions of euros that he's gonna make for all states so that, for example, the UK doesn't have to pay such a high contribution to the EU budget. The performance corresponds to the rhetoric of the opposition leader, who simply criticizes what can be done. Only the minister forgot that he's been in control for almost a year. Not to mention the jokes that you already want a contract register, and you've been blocking it for a year. So be it. At least we're saying we won't support it. You pretended to support him, and then you blocked him. I can hardly really respond to a twenty-five-minute speech by the Minister of Finance, in which he did not devote 25 seconds to the state budget, but we heard 15 times - we movement, we movement, we movement. And I expected the Minister of Finance to perform, not the chair of the movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u25	Mr Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u26	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In line with my two previous speakers, I would really ask that we try not to mix two completely different genres in the debate. There is a state budget, which is a complex structured document that has some priorities, some basic frameworks, sets out some trends in the development and further development of the country, sets out some trends in the development of the balance of public finances. That's the point we're talking about today. And then there is day-to-day management of state budget development through state institutions, through financial authorities, through the Ministry of Finance, which, of course, is applied by some legislation during the year that can affect the course of tax collection and the like. But these are two completely different, albeit related genres. And if we completely lose our ability in the Czech Republic - unfortunately, the Minister of Finance's speech represents this trend - to discuss the state budget at strategic debate level and stay in operation, then the debate will shift a few steps down to the level of such a pub debate. I would therefore ask the Minister of Finance to respond to questions relating to strategic visions relating to the budget and to specific things that are part of his daily agenda to keep at the Ministry of Finance's work meetings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u27	If it takes you two minutes really, I'll give you a point of fact. [[to the Minister of Finance]] Otherwise, President Fiala would have preferred it. Then it'll be a proper application with priority rights. Mr Radim Fiala, President of the Dawn Club, will now appear. Please. After that, with priority rights, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u28	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, Mr President, I originally wanted to respond in fact, too, but I would probably not have had enough of two minutes. Although my colleague Novotný here said that we should only talk about the state budget, I will use my priority right to start with the European Union. Minister Babiš inspired me to do this. Dear Minister, I'm afraid I have some bad news for you. The first bad news is that there is no European money or any European billions. These are the money of the European Union states that flow to Brussels, where they redistribute and flow back to the states. Another bad news is that in the European Union there is absolutely socialist management based on subsidies and huge redistribution. There's only one point. European politicians, European bureaucrats, in the past led by Barros José Barroso, the former President of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Portuguese Maoist, have set this up. Another bad news, Minister, is that this way of managing the European Union is not a good solution and is probably not going to end well. Finally, the third bad news is that I am afraid, although I believe that you are a very capable person, that you will find it very difficult for these European democrats to convince them to change their thinking, thinking and economics in the European Union. I am afraid that a lot of countries have been trying to do this for some time now, and that it is not, because these politicians want to have political power and political control over the financial flows that are from individual countries, and rather they are trying to bring all the budgets of the European Union states into one large European budget, from which to finance what is going on, because the European Union is falling into ever larger and larger deficits, and as I have already said, this method of management has no good solution. Now, one more thing you've come across, the responsibility of politicians. You said, Minister, that you would strive for politicians to have their political responsibility for what is happening at their departments. You have named specific politicians who have not been punished, and people who have worked under them have been punished, who have signed various treaties that simply have not been beneficial to the state. Remember, the Dawn movement here in the spring had a law where every politician was committed to the care of a proper economy. This law hasn't passed. You weren't interested. This Chamber of Deputies had no interest in pushing through the law so that every politician would have to have proper care, and not only a politician, should every official have it, because if he doesn't act like that, he would have nothing to do with the authorities. That's a thing that should be fulfilled as quickly as possible. You kept talking about State Reconstruction. I think you've ruled for a year now that there's been a lot of laws here. After all, various media also marked political parties and movements as they oppose the laws and reconstruction of the state. I feel, Minister, that the parties to the ruling coalition have not just received a good sign that they would like to fulfill what they have signed and that they would like to take care of the things you promised before the parliamentary elections. So, Minister, not words, but actions. And now I'd get to the budget, because even the Dawn movement obviously has an opinion on this budget. We have studied this very well and I would like to introduce you to how the Dawn movement will vote. I can generally say that the Dawn movement does not agree with the government's draft budget for 2015. The overvalued expectations of economic growth of 2,5 percent - this is, of course, because higher incomes can be planned with this, and the undervalued expectations of unemployment by 1 to 2 percent than this year merely conceals the government's inability to achieve systemic savings. Even if the government's expectations were fulfilled, we will still be in debt by another CZK 100 billion next year. These numbers are totally unacceptable to us. And now I'm going to say something about the deficit. Now I don't care if we're reducing the debt by 20 billion, but the state budget deficit is still the same...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u29	I'm sorry, and I'm begging you to stay calm in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u30	Economically, I believe that the deficit of the state budget needs to be reduced and not increased. You said you were cutting him down from 120 billion. 100. 120 billion were here three years ago, five years ago, maybe ten years ago, the deficits are still the same. So I hope that in the years to come, and according to the concept you declared when you became Minister of Finance, you declared that the deficits would be constantly decreasing. And the very structure of the state budget is wrong. Poorer non-Prague regions are losing 14 billion. from the European Union and they will not even receive substantial transport investments. The Ministry of Transport's budget will be reduced by 8.3 billion. Than this year. The overall lack of investment that would allow future economic growth, which even trade unions are calling on the government. This is unbelievable. The trade unions tend to take care of employees' rights, but today the trade unions are already complaining that you are not thinking about the future and that you do not intend to invest the way you did in recent years during the economic crisis and recession. Today, therefore, it seems as if we are counting on economic prosperity for the rich and even greater poverty for the poor. Dear Minister, we cannot agree with the draft budget and we will vote against it. As for the various other things, let me just briefly mention the sport. As far as sports are concerned, we say yes for a while, a billion for sports. We're saying no to a billion in sports for a while, because there are things going on that you've been talking about. Okay, I agree. But in that case, the system that gets the money into the sport needs to be completely transparent, transparent, but we cannot stop investment and financial support for sport in the Czech Republic. You can't do that. And I would ask all of you, fellow Members, including the Minister of Education, to prepare such a system. Transparent system of funds for sport. I think that is a great necessity, and I ask you all to do this as quickly as possible, because you all know that the legislative process is taking a very long time. That means if we prepare it, it'll take another x-month to get it into practice. I think this thing is on fire, and I'm pointing you out here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u31	That was the chairman of the Radim Fiala Dawn Club. And now with priority rights, Mr. Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not know how to explain this to Mr Fial that the debt of the Czech Republic 2013 was 1,683 billion. Debt of the Czech Republic 2014 at the end of 31. 12. Should be 1,665 maybe, somewhere there. So it's going to be lower, a little bit, but it will be. And 2015 we plan not to be higher than 2013, so I don't understand why you're talking about debt. There will be a deficit, it doesn't have logic, but since we started managing this cash flow, a little bit, although we don't have cash pooling, unfortunately the Ministry of Finance doesn't control and can't control all the flow of funds and state institutions, we won't be in debt! So please don't say that again. We'd be in debt. With regard to sport, we have on the table, by the end of the year the government will discuss it, the amendment to the Gambling Act, and we will also deal with the levy. Course stakes, lottery charges, casinos, internet, etc. And within that there is the possibility of dealing with sport and actually bringing in a system. Of course, the law of the State's reconstruction, I think I'm having a very intense relationship with them personally, but we're in some kind of system, we're in a coalition, so trust me, I'm personally trying to do what I can. In terms of budget debate, I don't know what you'd expect. Budget is revenue, that's income. I'm mostly focusing on the yield. I'm the only minister to secure the yield. All the other ministers have the cargo. So that's why I'm focusing on the taxes. And if Chairman Fiala is mocking me here in Europe, then fine, we'll see, at least I'll be the only one who tries to convince me. Because Europe works in some way, too. We've also had a vote now on whether anyone should dictate how many women they're supposed to be. I think our movement is a model example of us forsoring women everywhere. So Europe works in some way. Junckerův's package is also an interesting structure that I completely misunderstood. That there's some kind of guarantee, then the EIB put in 5 billion. EUR, then there's some multiplier 15 and that's 315 billion. EUR. But the Czech Republic is very well off because our problem is that we have enough money and in 2013 we returned 13 billion to the budget. from transport infrastructure. We're paralyzed by the law. We're here to correct past governments' mistakes that we haven't been able to adopt the Civil Service Act for ten years. That we weren't able to solve the invasion of the EIA. That we didn't have water regulation, etc. And that we were the worst at pumping. That there's 90 billion at risk here. investments. That we are at risk of the EIA, which has been approved for these investments, being accepted by Brusel. So we're chasing a lot of things at once, and the priority is investment! That's not true! I came to the finance department and we immediately made a program to invest the capacity of primary schools around Prague. Eight hundred million! Thirty municipalities volunteered. He's coming over. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know how you counted the kids who were born here now that there's a demand for seven billion investments in kindergarten and primary schools on the table. I don't know who ran this place before. I was very amused by Mr Novotný, a strategic debate. So let's talk about the strategic debate! Why didn't the ODS read the book Bati, 1937? That was the only vision of this country. Unfortunately, no one did. If someone did it, we're at least in Austria or Switzerland. That's where everything was written. So now we're doing an energy strategy. Big material, it's my job with Minister Mládek. So what's our energy position balance? We sold water, we sold gas, we sold coal, we sold refineries. And we have ČEZ, the one who did what he wanted in your government, and bought 80 billion in the Balkans. investments that are likely to be very positive, but have failed to fulfil the basic task. A block in Dukovany that we need to address first and foremost. Strategic debate. Well, how we solved the strategically transport infrastructure when we built 76 kilometers per 40 billion on D8 in 24 years.? We've been building highways on average for 13 years. So, at least during our reign, we came and pushed for more motivation for landowners so that we could finally build. We also want to adopt some laws that work in Germany so that we can finally start implementing something here! And that's the priority. Because we said we want to show citizens that they will finally know something in everyday life. Why don't we have fast trains? I don't know. I had dinner on Friday with a prominent representative of China, and there are trains that go 400 km per hour. With us we are still the same, some trains as at the beginning of this century probably. [[10.20 hours]] So, besides the budget, we also deal with financing investments in a different way. Yes, here's a big debate about PPP projects. Yesterday we had a meeting with the Minister of Transport with the Korean investor about the concrete implementation of the so-looped railway Kladno - airport - center. Someone's been talking about that for a long time, too. So we want to open the market to foreign investors. So we're doing everything we can to really move forward, and above all, the budget - yes, there's some sort of time shift between the income that's actually decaying and the expenditure, but we're implementing government priorities. We've been dealing with pensions, salaries, family support, and most importantly, we've brought growth. And it's not true that we didn't collect taxes. I don't know what Mr. Kalousek reads for the material, but tax collection this year is 38 billion larger in 11 months than it was last year. And I was very amused that he was actually telling me about Mr Novotný's strategic debate here. You were supposed to be Mayor Olomouc, as they whispered to me. And you owed Olomouc a billion dollars! When you got there, there was a billion, and when you left, there were two billion. So Olomouc has a debt of two billion - and how much is Olomouc's budget? Two billion! So Olomouc's debt is equal to the budget. So I don't understand why you guys are talking to me about a strategic budget debate. So maybe you could tell us how you managed in Olomouc, which you actually owed 100 percent. So that's what I'd like to comment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u33	Mr Dolejš Jiří factual remark and after that with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I feel that although the budget no doubt deserves a thorough debate that we are beginning to worry. The suffering of animals is forbidden, the abuse of Members may be folk entertainment, but I fear that we will not get much further before the vote, especially when I hear the Minister of Finance's answers. If one is wondering what a budget or economic strategy is - I understand, we each have a set of thinking: someone perceives trees, someone perceives the forest, and someone even perceives that the forest to function is a complex biotope that evolves for, say, seventy-eighty years, and someone solves it at the root of a tree or planting one tree. It just happens. And I'm just pointing out that a government that wants major changes should have the ability to think strategically, and if it has a finance minister who just needs to say that everything is stolen and we're working, I don't see the budgetary strategy, but what can we do? Just one factual point in terms of success in reducing public or public debt. Of course, one-off operations involving reserves in accounts can be reduced in the short term and temporarily. But if we have deficits growing, and let's just say that the comparison between 2015 and 2014 compared to reality is an increase in deficit, then of course the debt cannot be reduced, unfortunately this is not happening! I'm afraid that's the way it is with everything. We have borne some factually fundamental evidence that this budget is neither consolidation nor pro-growth, that it is rather maintenance. Of course, the government has to say it because it's the way you set it up, so let's not worry about it anymore. We may have already secured the abuse for folk entertainment, and let us approach the vote somewhat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u35	There is another factual point by Mr Novotný, who takes precedence over President Kalousek's priority right. So two minutes for Mr Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u36	And that's the strategy, Minister, it is! I've managed to increase the debt in the eight years I've been head of the city, as you say, - the amount you say doesn't add up to a number. You managed to increase the country's debt by a hundred times more than one vote in the first state budget a year ago, which we approved here. I am able to say in complete detail what we are strategically, i.e. from the point of view of the content of the investments made and with what share of European subsidies, they did in that city. And we're talking about how much debt we're increasing and what investment we're making, and that the falling debt in that budget is in that budget. I don't believe in your prediction that you will be able to achieve a real reduction in debt through the state treasury's miraculous management. We'll say that in a year. I think that I am able to defend my actions with strategic consideration. I haven't heard yours yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u37	Thank you. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue. Miroslav Kalousek, President of the TOP 09 Club, before colleague Putnová with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u38	Thank you. I have three notes. Firstly, what President Fiala was talking about. Although he consistently said the deficit, not the debt, the Minister confuses nominally debt and deficit terms, so he responded to the debt, but the explanation exists here, it is logical and I believe in this minister. We just have some total amount of debt, and then we have a net debt. Net debt is debt adjusted for the debt reserve, because, of course, the State borrows when it is advantageous on the capital markets, not when money is urgently needed, and that would logically also not be advantageous at that point. So there's always a need for a spare. In times of huge turbulence in the debt crisis of the state and the fear of accessing cheap funds, we have created a debt reserve relatively large, but it is not money spent, it is the debt reserve that you have in your assets, and it is simply not the debt of the future. The debt of the future is pure debt. The fiscalcompact, to which the government has signed up, also counts exclusively on net debt, here, clearing out the debt reserve. Thanks to the Treasury, to which the Minister curses so much, but he loves to use it because he can only have success with better liquidity management thanks to the Treasury, for nothing else, so the project was launched to 1. 1. 2013 and already in 2013 I was able to reduce the debt reserve by 110 billion just before I left the Ministry - very carefully. I could have done much more, but I did not want to complicate it with my successors, so I very carefully reduced the debt reserve by 110 billion thanks to better liquidity management, and thus in 2013 this one-off operation had reduced the total debt of the state, but of course there was no reduction in net debt, because 2013 was also deficit. The Minister is continuing this project as expected by the timetable. To 1. 1. 2014 collects euro accounts, continues it as if everyone else should, because the project is simply effective for government finance management, and thanks to that it will be able again - I hope that without risk, so I do not see specific figures now, so I hope that it will proceed without risk - to reduce the debt reserve and again this one-off operation will result in the total debt not to increase, but of course net debt will increase unnecessarily by the excessive deficit. That means saying I'm not raising my debt isn't fair. Of course, I am increasing net debt and indebting the future. Next thing you know, I'm taking down the reserve. I'm taking out the granaries. But that doesn't mean I'm gonna stop indebting. This is the first point on what the Minister so often emphasizes as a huge success that debt will be reduced. The debt that the world is watching, the debt that is measured by the fiscal compact that the Czech government has applied to, of course, is not reduced. That's net debt. [[10.30 hours]] The second point concerns the effectiveness of tax collection. The minister said, "I don't know what numbers Mr. Kalousek reads." I would like to point out that when discussing the state budget, I am solely and consistently based on the figures and materials of Minister Babiš. That's all I use. He denies them very often and says it's not true, but he writes it and presents it to us. One of them is the efficiency of tax collection. That the overall tax collection will increase by increasing GDP, and by increasing growth and by increasing retail turnover, we will have about 30 billion. better tax collection, that's true, and that's good. But at the same time, the efficiency has fallen because we're raising taxes at a lower rate than the dynamics of the economy. And these numbers are published by the Minister of Finance every month, each one at 2:00 p.m. When it's the first Saturday or Sunday, it's the next working day. These are your numbers, and they clearly show that in the second quarter, in the second half of the year, that is, six months after you started putting the resort together - in quotes, in your words - your tax collection efficiency is beginning to decrease quite sharply. The third point was about the criticism of how we sold the refineries. Yes, we sold the refineries to some Babiš. He took them, ran them for six months, pulled a lot of billions out of them, and then returned them to the Czech state without any sanctions. That was probably a crime, but the crime must be blamed for social democracy. That wasn't even the ODS or the TOP 09 at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u39	Thank you. I now have two factual points - one factual point by Mr Laudát, then the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Mrs. Putnová has to wait. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u40	Thank you. I'm just talking to Minister Babiš about why we don't have the fast railroads. Minister, I should probably ask you why SFDI is not in the budget for this item. We'll give you an opportunity to fix this when the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is in place. Karel Šidlo has already prepared appropriate proposals. So I'm asking you what your minister was doing and why it's not there. Unfortunately, we didn't stand a chance on the Economic Committee anymore. I hope that, in your notorious absence here in the House, you will wait for that point and help us push forward so that things can finally begin to move on this matter and that some three years old decisions and concrete steps of the Economic Committee have not been ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u41	Thank you, too. Now Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I must fundamentally reject this lie that Mr Kalousek here has told. I've never owned any refineries. Never. I've never realized a contract, so I couldn't pull out any billions. So it's a lie, and Mr. Kalousek knows it well. I just forgot about our country's balance sheet and the strategy to go back to - science and research, mantra. Today at 1:30 p.m., there's a seminar in the Senate. Go over there and look at the 44 science-technical centers that we are, or you set up here, and now we're gonna think about what to do with it. Their operation, their sustainability will cost us about 25 billion for the next five years.! So I understand basic research that if I don't always have to get some revenue out of it, but if we've set up science and technology centers here, then I guess we should know why, and somebody should say what it's like. So it's just science and research. So we're dealing with it. As far as I know, the Deputy Minister of Education is handling this. It's just the science and research system that's spread out on about 13 resorts, and basically no one's running it centrally, so we inherited it. And those centers we're going to be dealing with, which you guys have invested in concrete here, and basically no one knows what it's for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u43	Thank you. Now one more factual comment from the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u44	You didn't own them, Minister. I didn't say that either. You only took them in as the winner of the competition, you ran them for six months, you looked at all the guts, accounting, cash flow and strategy, you set up contracts for your businesses, and then you returned it to the state without any sanctions, because you refused to sign the purchase agreement. That's right. Therefore, you never became the real owner, but in six months of driving Unipetrol, the state really didn't make money, earned by someone else entirely. But it is necessary - I repeat - to blame social democracy and its then president and first Vice-President, not the ODS or the TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u45	A factual comment by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u46	Thank you. What Mr. Kalousek is doing here, I couldn't lie so brutally. So he lied just as brutally that I was in France, and I was at a conference in Berlin. Now he's lying again. I never took anything. I've never sat anywhere, so I couldn't arrange any contracts. Please, Mr. Kalousek, don't lie to me already. It's really embarrassing. And anyone can look it up in the register. I've never sat in Unipetrol, so I have no contracts - and they're dirty lies, I don't know why you're talking about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Let's get back to the debate. Now, Mrs Anna Putnová, with a proper application in the debate on the state budget at third reading. I would like to remind you that we will speak to the point, which I'm sure my colleague will respect. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u48	Good morning, Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. Before the final vote, I should like to clarify some of the answers and positions of the Ministers. If coalition Members would like to give me order, for example, Mr Plzák, I must state, for the record, that I am aware that we are at the third reading, however, questions, comments, doubts that I expressed at the second reading have remained unanswered, with the ministers that I specifically addressed. So I have no choice but to turn to them again. It seems that the government has decided to sit down and cut back on the debate on the state budget. If she has decided to remain silent in this way, it is the duty of the opposition, the responsible opposition, to shout and call and demand answers. I therefore refer first to the Minister of Finance. I wonder what are the reasons for the decline in investment in science and education. At the time of our governments, it was around 1% of GDP, and for next year it is weaker than this year - 0.83%. I can only respond to the fact that you crossed over my question by drawing attention to the issues of the centers: When you put support for science and education in this government's priorities, did you not know what centers you would be driving? I think I must also address Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you've been the head of an institution for almost a year with the aim of promoting science and research. Under your command, your office has been on the spot without any results throughout the year. It wasn't until the end of the year that there was a shift - a shift back. Minister Babiš said last week during the interview that all ministers were satisfied with their chapters. I have a simple question for you: Mr. Vice Prime Minister for Science and Research, are you satisfied with your chapter?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u49	Thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová. I see Mr. Foldyna's application - but only with a factual remark. Please, with a point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted a factual comment on a colleague who just spoke here. So I also see the need to make money for science and research. And maybe it could be the money that you agreed to at the church restitution, when the Czech state would give valorization and send three billion crowns to the churches for 17 years. Too bad we can't put them on science and research. I just wanted to take a breather.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u51	Thank you. It raised another factual point by Mr. Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will not respond to Mr. Foldyna's utter shame. We're going back somewhere, and it's all over again. However, I would like to draw attention to one thing. At the second reading of the budget, there were questions about Minister Babiš. He was answering something else, telling his story here again. However, the gros performances were about science, research and innovation. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek chose a different tactic - simply to be silent with second reading. It's quite a problem, because the more you look at it, on the one hand, billions are reduced to science, research, development and innovation, but this government has acquired a vice-premiere, and the situation is not getting better, but it is getting worse. I think we should get back to this in January or February at a special meeting because, unlike this government, we do not want our successors to be in a country of bankruptcy. If somebody here may have been building over-sized science centers... We have other ideas where to go, what to support the state. Not different agro complexes and so on. Not different oversized concretes, but really new progressive technologies. That's the future of the country! Not in small-value industries. You're going to this country's budget on the path of decline, and then you can hang question marks here, why so many centers, why so many possible costs. I just want to point out, and the Vice Prime Minister really should be here -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u53	You cannot point out because you have run out of time to make a point of fact, my colleague, respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u54	- and comment on your department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u55	There. Mr Vilímec, duly signed up for the debate, will be prepared by Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make an amendment at third reading, which I have read at second reading and before on the Committee on Budgets. It is an amendment which is registered in the amendments as point B7. I also want to speak with regard to what has been said today by the Minister of Finance at the end of the second reading. The amendment concerns the chapter of the General Treasury Report and increases the allocation of funds for the programme to support the reconstruction of the material technical base of regional education by CZK 100 million. At the end of the second reading, the Minister repeated today that the Ministry of Finance announced this programme also linked to the so-called problem of residential urbanization of suburban parts, this year Prague districts. 30 municipalities registered with 800 million demands. For the next year, when the programme opened up for the entire territory, I do not know how many municipalities, but today the minister repeated that the requirements are worth CZK 7 billion. In this context, I would like to draw attention to how much is allocated to this programme in the draft state budget. It is the chapter of the General Treasury, where the administrator of the Ministry of Finance is the total of CZK 473 million, of which CZK 278 million is allocated to the completion of the already launched events of suburban Prague districts. In fact, only about CZK 122 million is earmarked in the draft budget for next year, where so many applicants with 7 billion have applied. When we compare 7 billion applications and 122 million earmarked in the chapter of the General Treasury for this purpose, you can see that there is an obvious discrepancy. I think the Minister of Finance must acknowledge that too. If funding is not received in grant titles, in most cases it only brings costs for processing applications, administrative expenses and, in fact, the chances of granting a subsidy are very low. In such a case, it is almost better not to publish a grant title. If the Minister of Finance has stated in the past days that he does not see any reason to accept the proposals made in the second reading to discuss the state budget, the reason why I made the proposal is that the funds in the chapter of the General Treasury, for which the Minister of Finance is responsible, are not being received. The proposal is balanced, without a clear risk. That is why I would like to ask - regardless of the opposition Member's submission - Mr Volný, who is also from our region, or the President of the Committee on Budgets, to support this proposal. It gives a chance to accommodate most of the requests made by cities and municipalities. I would not only ask you, colleagues, to support you, but also the Minister of Finance, when he has expressed himself as the petitioner, to give this proposal a chance and agree to this proposal, because it is a proposal in favour of the chapter of the General Treasury, a proposal in the interest of the Ministry of Finance. This is the subject of my speech and I believe that in this vote we will not evaluate whether the proposal was loaded at second reading, whether it was submitted by an opposition Member, but whether the proposal has logic and factual justification, which I believe it clearly has. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u57	I thank Mr Vilímc. Now, Mr Jeroným Tejc, Mr Jiří Štětina will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u58	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I was somewhat surprised by today's information that my amendment, which aims to strengthen the control of the executors and the supervision of the bailiffs, was not supported by the Resort Minister and therefore will not vote for him by the government coalition. I understand that there must be agreement on the budget, but I want to ask the Minister of Justice what reasons she had for the proposal to move under the chapter, not to the detriment of an increase in the debt of the state of CZK 35 million to 86 tables of higher judicial officials in all districts, has not been supported. I think, of course, there are other ways to strengthen the control of the executors, but I would like to hear them from the Minister. Even the government's programming statement makes it clear that the government will strengthen the supervision of executives. The executions are hundreds of thousands, it affects a number of people. Surely it is right to pay debts, and surely it is right for the executors to recover debts from those who do not pay them. Everything's supposed to have rules. I believe that the situation has unfortunately been neglected in the past so much that it is not enough only to continue the system as it is set up, but it is necessary to check much more closely whether individual bailiffs do not exceed the law and, if they go beyond, to take measures such as the proposal for disciplinary punishment, even if the executioner is relieved of his duties. That is why I have made this proposal. I think we need to talk about this if it is not accepted, how the Justice Department will ensure supervision of the bailiffs now or in the coming years. And I think it's all the more important that that's the thing that the government coalition agreed on. [[10.50 hours]] I just want to add, for the sake of completeness, that I did not propose and I will not suggest that we strengthen control in the centre of the Ministry, which in recent years had two to three officials at the Ministry, because I think that the control from one place, whether it will be Prague or Brno, is simply not effective. What I have proposed is the deployment of higher judicial officials in each district, so that the President of the court who has the right to control, but unfortunately he does not have enough options and capacity to do so and he has enough information for example. filing a disciplinary action. That is my question to the Minister, how, if she does not agree now with the proposal I have tabled, and she has the right, of course, to ensure supervision of the bailiffs, because in my opinion, that is not sufficient. I don't care about protecting debtors who are dishonest, but I think that even the debtor who got into trouble has the right to keep the law from the executor, from those who enforce, and I think that something needs to be done. So if not what I suggest, then what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u59	Thank you, Mr Jeroný Tejc. Mr Jiří Štětina will now take the floor, Mr Karel Fiedler will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u60	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear government, dear colleagues, why did I dare to go to this counter today? Surely you cannot regard me as an enemy of sports, who know me. But when I read about the one-billion-dollar amendment, I had to comment on it, and of course I was inspired by the article in today's Sport, in which it is written: The Academy without the Willow. The team coach is no longer going to be involved in the youth academy project. He said so at high time and responded to Monday's decision by the Executive Committee, which, instead of concrete points of reform, merely agreed to the composition of the Education Concept Board. We're talking football. It is symbolic, but certainly unplanned, that these words were spoken the night before the approval of the state budget, where one billion is required for sport by an amendment. Money for sport is still completely untransparable and uncontrollable, which is in line with the presidents of some unions, unions and associations. For example, football, tennis, basketball, ice hockey, but also the Czech Olympic Committee. No one knows what property the former ČSTV owns ČUS, Czech Union of Sport. We need to know exactly what the money is going to do, who will manage it, who will control it, and how it is guaranteed that subsidies will not just become another way to reward loyal sheep in sport. These are the words of this article. In the financing of sport it is necessary to establish a firm order and concept, strictly separate what is state and what is private. There is no way that we will support the amendment, because we have committed ourselves to the voters that we will manage the public funds properly and honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u61	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler, David Kádner will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u62	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. First, one organizational thing. When we proceed to the vote after the debate in our House of Deputies, I propose that Amendment B12 be withdrawn, and I presume that this will be voted on after the agreement with the House President. Second thing. It was mentioned here in the debate - this is another amendment that we will be voting on, which concerns the budget chapter of the USTR, where I just want to repeat one factual point. There are two budget chapters, both the Institute and the Archive. The wage resources in the chapter of the Institute remain the same, the wage resources in the chapter of the archive are increasing, even though there is a reduction in the number of employees in one chapter and there is an increase in the second chapter, which therefore does not have factual logic. I ask, it has not yet been explained to me why there is an increase in the funds for wages, when the number of totals is not to increase. The figures set out in this budget chapter are clear. It states that there is an increase in the number of workers, but according to the available information, a different matter takes place. They are to be reduced in the chapter of the Institute and increased in the chapter of the archive, or I absolutely do not understand why there should be such an increase in wage resources. And the third thing, I will not delay long, indeed the call of Mr Dolejš to proceed to the vote, has its reasons. In this debate about what is going to happen, what are the predictions, I took the H book and I made a simple calculation. It is Table 7 on page 12, which concerns public budgets as to how we will collect taxes better. 2011 705.6 billion and 2012 727,8 billion The increase is 3,14 percent. The year 2013 is 753.9 billion, the increase is 3.58 percent. Now 2014, the preliminary fact is 772.6 billion, and this increase is falling to 2.48 percent, and 2015 is 791.5 billion, so the increase is only decreasing to 2.44 percent. From these factual figures, which I quickly calculated here, I cannot say that there would be more tax collection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u63	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Plíšek. Then a colleague of Kádner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u64	Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. I would like the one thing that the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Tejc, did not really fit in here. In fact, with a overwhelming majority of votes and opposition votes, we have adopted recommendations to the Committee on Budgets on the transfer of funds intended to control the activities of executors, where we see great problems, and it also points out that the executive chamber itself has problems with many of its members that have been mediated in the past, and there is simply no effective control that the Ministry has failed in the past, and now the courts have problems with that. That is why I want to ask the Minister, through Mr President, and he is already here, whether it is true what has been said that he has rejected this amendment, on which the government coalition and members of the opposition parties have actually agreed. I think it was a proposal that is certainly not political, and we all want effective control of executives here, I hope. It was a transfer under the budget chapter. So I want to ask if this is true and how it intends to ensure this control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u65	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. Now one more point in fact, Mrs Jana Lorencová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask my colleagues who are here spewing questions towards the current government and, above all, towards the current finance minister, where they were at the time when money was pulled out of the banks through a broken piece of stairwell. Whoever brought it to the counter got $98 million. As far as I know in a specific case. [[He's talking more and more strongly.]] And not just this case. It was tens of billions! Who were you asking back then, what's going on? It was because of the laws your governments adopted! Where were you at the time of the big stealing, because nothing but stealing was light fuel oils! I think this case is gonna haunt me for the rest of my life. But it was at least 100 billion. Who did you ask back then? And the years have flowed. From every station, any dispatcher could have told you what was going on! [[11.00 hours]] And don't tell me you didn't know! [[He's still talking very strongly.]] You knew because even the last homeless guy to come here knew! Where were you when the Campfire Act was adopted today, working hard to fix? Where were you when he came to the last meeting so that he couldn't be reversed? And then what happened with the money in the campers, you must have known that, not that you didn't know. There's a lot more to go. I have a lot of documentation at home in the archives. If you were wondering, I could have provided because I was filming about it and you knew, you must have known about each of those cases. Those were dozens of reports I shot! And just to conclude -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u67	Madame, you have made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u68	I'm done. When you exchanged the register with the right-wing concession so that the register can't be introduced ten years ago!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u69	Thank you and now duly applied for by Mr David Kádner and Mrs Věra Kovářová, with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u70	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the amendments under the designation B1 and B2 with the fact that the first proposal is from my colleague Martin Novotný, the second proposal is from me. This is the launch of the MIT's budget revenue by a total of 495 million. and it is from revenue budgeted on the basis of an amendment to the Mining Act, which has not yet been discussed by the government, let alone a parliament. And I would really hate to see us here in a few weeks, say, pressed against the wall in that Minister Babiš and Minister Mládek will tell us that they need it and that we should accept it because the funds are already in the budget. So thank you for your support and I would be very happy if you would support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u71	I thank Mr Kádner. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, then the Deputy Prime Minister came forward. [[A Member speaking with the Prime Minister.]] Mr. Colleague, please, you can't... Mr Member, please, you cannot now speak with the Prime Minister at this point in order to give her speech. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u72	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me address you because of an amendment which, if approved, would be reinforced by 400 miles to restore cultural monuments. I want to talk about this amendment for the last time today, and I will certainly delight many of you whom I have addressed. [[Big noise in the hall.]] There is, of course, no room for the introduction of the proposal at third reading, so I would just like to make the right statement, which has only been made once recently, yet it is so misleading that I have to comment on it. According to him, the restoration of cultural monuments should be financed sufficiently by means of -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u73	Madam, I will interrupt you once more and ask the House for peace. If anyone wants to discuss something other than the state budget, transfer the discussion to the lobby. He who has the floor has the right to make his suggestions in a quiet environment. Please, madam, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u74	Thank you. According to the views expressed here, the restoration of cultural monuments should be financed through the resources of the Rural Development Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case. The restoration of cultural monuments in the countryside will not really be financed from this programme, as Minister Jurečka told me in response to my recent oral intervention. The funds will flow to this area only from the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, which is a big difference from the end of the programming period. These funds will be less and will support a significantly narrower range of cultural monuments, only UNESCO monuments and national cultural monuments. For the remaining 40,000 cultural monuments, funds will be made only from national programmes, the amount of which is actually negligible due to the number of these cultural monuments. [[Noise in the hall.]] This was precisely the main reason for my amendment, which seeks the necessary money in our state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciate the fact that the amendment, which responds to the loss of European money in the coming years, has won the support of the Association of Local Authorities, the Association for Rural Reconstruction and, above all, the Union of Towns and Communities, but also of other organisations that are close to caring for our cultural wealth. It's natural. The amendment responds to initiatives from many mayors, captains and associations from all over the Czech Republic. They all want to repair the sights. They know the importance of restoring cultural heritage, but they lack funds. Every investment in the restoration of our cultural heritage returns to the state many times. Every crown comes back three times. It means an opportunity for companies, especially regional, to restore monuments also means promoting tourism in the regions. Finally, let me ask you to support the amendment under A12, respectively. B21. Finally, I follow my colleague Putnová's question and ask the Minister of Culture whether he is really satisfied with his budget and whether he is really satisfied with the amount of money that will come from national titles to restore cultural monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. The Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, who has the floor, and after that, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek, has signed up. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to answer two questions here. The first is whether I am satisfied with the budget, I do not know exactly if there was a question with his budget. Well, Minister Babiš said the ministers were happy with their budget. Since I am not a minister, I can say that I am not entirely satisfied with my budget, but it is the result of the coalition negotiations and what we have managed to negotiate. It's just a compromise. I think a person who's satisfied will stunt. I'm used to not being satisfied with myself or my surroundings or the state of this country, and that's one of the reasons why I'm publicly engaged. Because whoever is satisfied has no other goal, and I have a whole range of such goals, because I think our country can do better. I think that our party is better than that, and that is why I became chairman of a party that was in a very difficult situation, many underestimated it, many buried it, many thought it was a dead party that was a relic of the past. And, hey, it turns out that when a person comes in who isn't happy with a situation that isn't satisfied with the way things are, you can do what no one has ever done in this republic. Therefore, I answer once more: I am not entirely satisfied, but I can live with it because, firstly, I have nothing else left, and secondly, it is a compromise and there has been an increase in the budget. [[11.10 hours]] Other comments. I didn't perform here for the reason that I think there are open sources from which you can find out the things you asked about that aren't what you're saying. According to the law of jurisdiction, there is no resort of mine. I just don't have a resort. I don't have a budget chapter. That's why my budget isn't here. I must reject my office as unfair, completely irrelevant, and completely insulting. I think that in the number of people I have, we've done a really big job. There are a lot of tangible results here, and all we have to do is talk to those people with whom we have not only discussed, but have already prepared a concrete solution. However, I do not think that the Land of the Chamber of Deputies is the right place to discuss the budget. I can give you some things in writing if you haven't found them from public, available sources yet, unless you're watching the exits. And if you really don't know what's going on, it's not entirely my fault. I'm not really able to give you all a detailed sum of what's been done. But it's true that there are hundreds and hundreds of things discussed. There's a new law here, there's a question of changes that are being made, there's a RIS3 strategy here. And I could keep talking about it. Let's go straight to the budget. I don't have a budget chapter. The Ministry of Education is the central body of science, research and innovation. I believe that there will also have to be changes within the MIT, because innovation is essentially not given strictly. I believe that we must also base ourselves on an international audit of Czech science, which clearly states that there is a need for central authority, as we do in other countries, such as Germany, to which we often look. We have a commissioner here at the European Commission. I believe that this is what is very damaging to our entire system, because it is fragmented. We have eleven budget chapters here that cover science and research. For your information, it is seven ministries, the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, the Technology Agency, the Grant Agency and the Academy of Sciences. It is clear from this that the situation is complex, and the Council of the Government for Research, Development and Innovation, which I have the honour to chair, proposes this money for redistribution. Then some of this money goes into science and research from resort money outside our budget. For example, I'd like to introduce him to the Ministry of Health, which he owns, which used to be called the Internal Grant Agency, now it's renamed, and that's a different story. However, for 2015, the government's budget for science and research is 26,9 billion. There's no decline. These appropriations are divided into the eleven budget chapters that I have mentioned. Compared to the approved budget of national resources for research, development and innovation for 2014, an increase of CZK 300 million is proposed. Of this CZK 100 million goes to consolidation of scientific research centres, with the revision of these centres being carried out, and in the first quarter it will be addressed whether more money will be raised, based on the fact that we know where we stand. We are not yet able to tell, and I do not blame my predecessors for one simple reason, because they were designed so that the two billion-dollar growth of the money that will go into this area was calculated year-on-year. No one could have known there was going to be a crisis. So I don't think you can blame it. On the other hand, it's the situation we're in. Now, given sustainability, we need to distinguish those who are trouble-free, who may be in some kind of trouble and who are at risk. This has not happened and is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, while the Ministry of Education is the central body of research and science. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Furthermore, we have 200 million in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, which administratively increased the budget for science and research in the context of moving indicators in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, namely by moving the financial indicator of the university to indicators of science and research. In the amount of CZK 26,9 billion - and I am very sorry that some of you are unable to distinguish the budget of 2015, the budget of the year 2014 and the total amount of money that will go to the R &amp; D in 2015 - is not included in the budget, it does not appear there for 2015, 900 million CZK, which has been reinforced by my proposal by the budget of individual ministries. Because I don't have the ministry, I'm not the minister, and the money we're debating is distinguished into eleven chapters, none of which are mine, because I don't have one. One percent of GDP, including the European funds and the end-of-the-year planning period, is significantly strengthening this chapter, because it is more pumped because it is over, or we are already at the end of this period. From this speech of mine, I hope, it is clear that much of what you said is not true. From what you've been saying, I can see that you need some information. I will be happy to provide them to you, even in writing, if it is beyond your ability to obtain them from public sources or, if necessary, on the committee you have here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u77	I thank the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Bělobrádek. I have four factual points before Mr Kalousek's enrollment. First is Minister Helena Válková, then Member Urban, then Member Petr Fiala and Martin Novotný. Now, then, Minister Helena Válková, with a factual remark. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u78	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, very briefly. Surely no minister is 100% ever satisfied with the budget he gets, but he can be relatively satisfied. I, from the budget that I had at my disposal, cannot release and move the amount that was originally allocated to the judicial complex in Ústí nad Labem, where the situation has been catastrophic for a long time, as most of the people present, I hope, know, and move it to salaries of 86 employees strengthening the supervision of executives, although I very much agree with that myself. But we have the situation under control. We will follow it, and, of course, if we find out that, for whatever reason, the amount of 35 million would not be exhausted, it will be transferred to cover the salaries of these new employees supervising the execution process as they should and are not currently in progress. So, not that I'm against it, but I'm also limited by the resources entrusted to the resort. One. And second of all, that's a nice gesture. Move something quickly without knowing whether we will need it, and without being sure that this will not endanger the construction of a delayed judicial complex, which is in completely inadequate areas, which have been repeatedly washed up several times, would not be rational, I think. Of course, I know that further budgetary measures need to be taken to make such changes. But we'll be in touch with the Treasury Department that has promised their assistance in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u79	Thank you, Minister Helena Válková. Now, Mr. Milan Urban with a factual... He doesn't want to. Okay. Now, then, Mr Petr Fiala, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u80	Yes, thank you. I would only react briefly with such clarification to what the Vice Prime Minister here said about the organisation of research and development, because either he said it in a nutshell, or everyone didn't have to understand it, or he didn't exactly say it. The budget allocated to each chapter for research and development shall be approved separately. It's not in those chapters. It is approved on a proposal from the body established in the R & D Support Act, the R & D and Innovation Council, which is an advisory and expert body of the Government. He is headed by a member of the government, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. This body recommends to the government how the research budget will be divided between the various providers, but also the total expenditure that will be incurred for research and development. This means that it is the responsibility of the Vice Prime Minister, as the Council proposes, that he is responsible, as he asserts in the Government. And it is undoubtedly appropriate to ask him if he is satisfied with the funds that are intended for research and development next year. Even in view of the fact that there are certain commitments of the Czech Republic, certain promises and certain needs of the large infrastructure centres that we have built, and it is good that we have built them, and they must also be fulfilled through a well-established budget. So, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have an impact on the budget, and that is according to legislation, and you are responsible for that. That's why we can ask you about it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u81	I thank Mr Fial for his time. So now another factual remark from Mr Martin Novotný will be prepared with Mrs Putnová's point of view, and Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek will also comment - or with a proper application or with a priority right? In fact, okay, thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u82	Colleagues and colleagues, it is indeed very brief and factual. In my comment, I follow up on the speech by my colleague Kádner, who mentioned here the two amendments concerning the proceeds from the extraction areas and the extracted minerals. In this context, even after studying the material we received for the third reading, I would like to clarify my Amendment B1, where, in chapter 398 of the General Treasury, it is necessary to specify the item in which the adjustment is to be made. That item is value added tax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u83	I thank Mr Novotný. Now, Mrs Anna Putnová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u84	Good morning again. I'm turning to Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have told us here what good you have done, both you as a person, and you as a party leader. But in that account, we do miss what you did as Chairman of the Council of the Government for Science, Research and Innovation! Because you're responsible. You are responsible for the budget, you are responsible for strategic planning investments in science, research and innovation. And if you were talking about the fact that it's not true that you wouldn't have any results last year, and that there's a whole range of material evidence, then I see it as the only evidence that they've dropped in terms of GDP of investment in science and research. And, of course, if we are losing European resources next year, that is all the more reason for you to try to complete these expenses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u85	Thank you. A colleague, Jeroným Tejc, does not insist on his point of fact. So now Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, with a factual remark during the debate. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that I have answered your question, in the sense that there has been an increase in the budget. I didn't take that away from you having the right to ask. I think that's completely legitimate. I also answered your question. I am not satisfied, and I will not contradict Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš's words because I am not a minister. Of course, I'm not taking responsibility for what you said. However, the Government's Council merely proposes. It's for the government to decide. That means I fought the government for it, but I was outvoted. I think it's democracy. I'm not happy with that, you've heard the answer. And so are the things that can be traced one by one. If you want individual things, I can give them to you, and I told you that in writing. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u87	Thank you. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura with a factual remark, Mr Marek Černoch will prepare for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u88	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, because he responds as one of the few members of the government to specific questions. Whether someone's satisfied with that answer or not is another matter. And I have one more specific question for Mr Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek about Amendment B14, perhaps. B19, which is essentially identical, except for cover. We propose to increase expenditure on science, research and innovation by 355 miles. These are optional ESA programmes, i.e. European Space Agency. It is a matter which the Government of the Czech Republic has committed itself to. I know it's not yours, but it's just true. I wonder if you and your club are prepared to support this amendment, because it is certainly not political, it does not interfere with the government's political priorities, but it is in the area that we think is underfunded or that there is little money in the proposal for the 2015 budget to bring at least the resources that will enable the Czech Republic to live up to its international commitments. At the same time, we think that the optional programs are a good thing and can bring effect and benefit to the whole Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u89	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Now, Mr Marek Černoch with a factual remark, Mr Martin Plíšek will also be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u90	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to the Minister's words. Wars about supervising the executors, because there's an attempt to sort this out in some way, popularly speaking, to get the executors on the dorms. And the moment a proposal comes that we think will help, it's a proposal on which the coalition and the opposition work together, so suddenly it's down to the fact that the money isn't needed for that. On the contrary, the money is needed because supervision of the bailiffs is one of the effective tools. And I would just like to see if it would be possible for the Secretary to answer how he wants to deal with these things if he doesn't support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u91	Yes, thank you. Now, Mr Martin Plíšek. That's the last point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u92	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will respond to my previous speaker in response to the Minister's words. There is a bit of a contradiction with what we discussed on the Financial Sub-Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Minister said that he does not have the means to control and supervise the bailiffs, stating that these funds - and, of course, in large amounts - are necessary for the construction of a judicial complex in Ústí nad Labem. At the same time, its representatives on the Financial Sub-Committee have confirmed to us that these funds will not be used up next year and that they can be used for the project of electronic bracelets for prisoners. From this, I can see that funds of 35 miles. it simply has the effective supervision of executives in that budget chapter and that they can be approved today. Because if they can be used on electronic bracelets for prisoners, possibly for other projects, and the Deputys have told us that the project for the construction of a judicial complex will not be implemented in the form that is budgeted - there are also Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee - I see a contradiction between what the Minister says and what the reality is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u93	Yes, thank you for keeping time. One more point of fact, Mr Milan Urban. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke here last year during the budget discussion of this year about how the budget is being discussed, the various chapters in the committees. Last year it was so that the various committees, to speak for their economics, discussed the relevant chapters, and then the Committee took these resolutions, threw them in the trash, and made its resolution completely contrary to what was approved by the relevant committees. The same was true of others. [[11.30 hours]] The situation has gotten much worse in a year. Not only have the committees discussed the relevant chapters, they have adopted a resolution on this, the budget committee has broken it down, but, worldly, wonder, today the budget committee's resolution will not even apply, or important material, for the state budget negotiations, we can basically simplify the House negotiations very much, because we do not need the committees. All we need is a coalition board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u95	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, then Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. No, okay. So now Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u96	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on the amendment, through the President, who said a colleague of Stanjura here. Personally, I think it's pretty oversized. We had a rather extensive discussion about this with the Ministry of Transport. Deputy Minister Dobeš is very involved in this, I see added value for our companies, which can then report to individual projects, but we are limited financially. The deal is that we're going to try to get the money to go there next year according to state budget developments. We're not able to put that money in yet. In any case, I believe that this development is of great importance precisely so that we can continue to be applied to the Agency in some way. That means it's in agreement with the Department of Transport. I'll have another discussion with the new minister. I am not entirely satisfied with this item, but in your words, we would have to borrow it. There's the question, what's the added value? I'm sure he's there. I can't exactly answer this, but the deal is we're not gonna support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u97	I thank the Vice-President of the Government. I've been given factual notes. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, Mrs. Chalánková. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u98	I would have expected the Vice Prime Minister for Science and Research to fight for that money. One. You want to borrow $100 billion next year for the entire state budget. And this amendment does not change that, nor can it change, we both know that, this parameter - 100 billion. So it's about priorities. And you're saying it's just not a priority. Nothing else. You have 1,200 billion expenses there and you are not willing, and you personally as vice prime minister responsible for this area, support 350 million for, as you say yourself, useful programs where Czech companies can profit, and therefore the Czech Republic as a whole. This is a simple translation of the official alibi answer: we would like to, but we cannot. If a balanced budget and this proposal were to lead to a deficit, you are absolutely right. The parameters of the deficit have been determined by you. We are 100% able to find 350 million that can be saved there, because you have also cut tax revenues, so I can see how you praise each other in July and August that you are actually managing more, that the planned deficit will not be 100, but maybe 90. It will not be by saving on the expense side, but by simply paying more. Today you say quite conciliatoryly: they didn't give me money for it in the government, I pushed for the proposal of my advisory body, but I simply didn't enforce it. I would expect a more logical defense of these interests. It is similar to the Minister of Culture, who also looks satisfied, and the vast majority of the amendments that have been endorsed by the Committee on Budgets address cultural problems. I also need to ask the Minister if he will support them or not. It's about supporting major festivals, through film incentives, and now I could name one after another - monuments. Really significant changes for the better, when the resort is actually being helped, which I don't think are purely political here. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Last sentence. I'm just wondering what the Coalition Council decided. I wonder, together with Milan Urban, how the Coalition Council decided to support science, research and culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u99	Now, Mrs Chalánková. No, she checked out. Mr Marek Černoch, once again on a factual point, and Mr Laudát, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u100	I promised it would be a very quick question, because the secretary wasn't here. If I could get an answer, if it's such a huge amount of money within millions of people who are affected by executions, they can't be found at all so that it can just be solved by a really big problem within state supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u101	Thank you. Now, Mr František Laudát, with a point of fact. After that, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek also made a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u102	Mr. Vice Prime Minister Whitebread, I think that the way you behave in your department, which you do not, as you have said here, is harmful to science, innovation and education. 350 million on ESA for optional programs would not be oversized at all. You'd get your first 90 million back pretty quick. What you're saying just proves that you're not moving too much in this business. I am very sorry, but there is really a need for a person who has long-term management of science and innovation. It also shows that when the Minister of Finance here gave the private sector a major crushing blow, innovation in the form of their funding, you weren't here, or I think you were here and you were silent because you don't even know what it is, what it is about the core of the poodle. Please, I'm sorry. And I assume that all the satisfied ministers, after the Vice Prime Minister's speech, will pick up their fiddles and leave the resorts because he himself said that we had nothing more to expect from them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u103	Thank you, in particular, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, with a factual remark, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues. If someone other than you had said that, through the President, Mr colleague, I might have taken it to my heart, but after some of your outbursts, I really do take it with a spare. I think the problem is that we are drawing, at least within the European Union, directly from the money that is from the European Commission, there is very little money. I've also told Prime Minister Stanjur, who I don't think is here... [[Voices from the O.R.]] Yeah, he's sitting in my back, so I'm sorry. The priorities, through Mr President, are now primarily scientific centres. So, yes, it's not exactly a priority. On the other hand, I said, and I point out again that we are going to try to look for more money that is not being budgeted now, to go there. But the donations will go in, that'll work out. There's added value, it's an effort, but maybe we can figure out what it looks like in the first quarter. It's not a priority, I admit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u105	I thank the Vice-President of the Government, Bělobrádek. Mr Roman Váňa's point of fact. Then a factual remark by Minister Válková, then a colleague by Herman. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance for accepting the Security Committee resolution on increasing funds for the Security Corps, including the Prison Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u107	I thank my colleague Roman Váňa for a really factual remark. Now, then, Minister Helena Válková, after which Minister Daniel Herman. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u108	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, once again, I have been asked. Yes, we want to increase the number of employees supervising the executives. Yes, we need to find funding for this within our budget, but not by non-systemic changes in the budget approval that we have already agreed on. My promise exists here, we know that this change is necessary, but we do not want to address it now with this so-called operational intervention, without being sure that we will not endanger the budget itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u109	Thank you, Minister Válková. Minister Herman and then Member Karel Fiedler. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to thank in particular all those who try in any way to help Czech culture. Culture is a theme over party politics. As Pavel Tigrid, the unforgettable Minister of Culture, said: "The monuments are our sea. " And it is our great responsibility not only for them, but also for the living art that culture creates and fills, to take good care of. I want to answer the question whether or not I'm happy with the budget. As has already been said here, one may never be satisfied with a situation that he knows is the result of some reality. On the other hand, I am glad that we managed to increase the Ministry of Culture's budget by 2.3 billion. We've reached historically the highest level of nearly 11 billion. From that, one billion goes to the restoration of the monument fund. to the so-called National Cultural Treasure, 150 miles. to the operation of our contribution organizations. I know if it was ten times more, it wouldn't be enough. But I am very glad that we were able to resonate our priorities with the Ministry of Finance and, as was the case this year, next year we will respond to the needs in our department. So I thank everyone once again for supporting culture in our country, and I believe that with our joint efforts we will be able to take care of it with ever more beautiful flowers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u111	Thank you. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler with a point of fact, then again, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u112	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President to the Minister I'd like to turn to the war. Madam Secretary said that she would be looking for resources to ask my colleague Mr. Černoch about the wages. I dare to propose where to look for the money in the state budget. There is this amendment to the budget chapter of the USTR, which will also be supported by the ODS MEP, which I suppose will also be supported by the KDU-ČSL MP club, where it is 14 million. including other social contributions for some weird increase in employees. So here's what I'm going to need to do, where I'm going to look for the funds, and I'm willing to suggest it. Another theme - the black soul in the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic. Evergreen Budget Committee, 110 tables. I don't know how many there are now, 91, 94. So I dare suggest to the Minister where to look for the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u113	Thank you. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u114	I would like to respond to the words of the Minister of Culture. It's nice that the Ministry of Culture's budget has been increased. But programs to restore cultural monuments failed to increase. For years, these national programmes, the amount of funds available, have fallen. The Minister said that the Ministry of Culture's priorities were resonated. Does this mean, then, that if you do not support my amendment to restore cultural monuments, that repairing cultural monuments and restoring them is not your priority? When I spoke to many Members, almost all of them, they were in favour of supporting this proposal. Why isn't it possible in this final vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u115	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. At this point, the last one entered into the debate at third reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u116	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two comments on the debate and one request. Note one. Vice-President Bělobrádek is certainly right when he says that the funds for science and research increase in 2015 compared to 2014. But 2014 brought with it historically the lowest spending of this type not only on science and research, but historically the lowest investment. It was an extraordinarily bad budget! It was a budget proposed by the Rusnokův government. You supported him, we didn't. And the amount of funding for science and research in this budget was shameful! So please compare what you are ready to devote to science and research in 2015 with the years of our government. With years of unprecedented crisis and recession. Even in times of unprecedented crisis and recession, the government has been able to put significantly more resources on science and research from 2010 to 2013 than you are ready to give next year at a time of economic growth. This is clear information about your priorities. You are putting significantly less money on science and research in times of crisis and economic growth than it was possible to allocate to governments between 2010 and 2013 in times of unprecedented crisis. I was very proud of the fact that the only optional expenditure growing at the time was expenditure on science and research, because we were aware of this priority. The only expenditure on science and research that you are able to increase compared to this period is expenditure on officials who will administer subsidies on science and research. You're really increasing those against our budgets. But you propose money for science and research significantly lower. Note two. The first part of our discussion already appears on news servers and one despairs. The information is clear. Kalousek claims that public budgets will deteriorate in 2015. Babiš says it's not true, and he doesn't know what data Kalousek is coming from. Please, ladies and gentlemen, at least here in the House, I would like to reiterate that Kalousek is not saying that this is getting worse. That's what Babiš says. It says so in the official documentation on the state budget that you will vote on. Kalousek merely agrees with this and in vain asks Babiš why he considers it necessary to make it worse. I am not with him about his true claim that public budgets are deteriorating in 2015. He's right. I'm confirming the truth. I'm just asking why he thinks it's necessary. And I am desperate that it may already be forbidden to write the truth in the Czech media. Because it's notoriously repeatedly written in a completely different way from how it fits reality and how anyone can read it when they open it. In this case, the H-book, an annex to the state budget. My third point is a request. Indeed, I have had very few opportunities to feel good when discussing the draft state budget. One of the few moments when I had the good feeling was when the Committee on Budgets discussed the unanimous resolution of the subcommittee on culture, when the subcommittee on culture would not have sucked it out of its finger, but after a very careful work and responsible expert discussion and discussion with the public, it proposed to the Committee on Budgets to approve an amendment of some 46 million, where it responsiblely distributed contributions to international music festivals of classical music... Gentlemen on the right, please, be so very kind, through Mr President, do not shout at me. Thank you for understanding. The festivals of classical music, festivals, which by their importance and reputation far beyond the borders of the Czech Republic, are an important diplomat, prestigious means and even a pro-export instrument for the Czech Republic. [[11.50 hours]] I have now learned in the proceedings that the coalition will not vote for this amendment either, which means that it will probably not be adopted. And I want to ask you, fellow Members of the Sub-Committee on Culture, whether you will enjoy continuing to work, whether you will be entertained by the hours and hours to do so carefully, to associate with the professional public, whether you will be entertained as a Member of Adam on television and there to make an absolutely brilliant argument in favour of this amendment and to give a brilliant explanation of why it is so necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to accept this amendment. If you enjoy it, because it is probably not worth it, because, unanimously across the political spectrum of the subcommittee on culture, this amendment will be accepted, unanimously across the political spectrum, the Committee will support this proposal to the subcommittee, and then one will know that Babiš does not want it and Herman is afraid of Babiš, so it does not vote. How much is it worth if the House is a sovereign and it is to decide? I have been present in many coalitions, and I can imagine that for billions of volumes, the coalition board with the finance minister will say: we simply cannot support such a move, it would break down the entire concept of the budget. But this is 46 million crowns! And behind this is the huge work of our fellow Members in the Chamber of Deputies, and behind this huge work is the hope that people can finally learn before April next year what state contribution they can expect to make to the festival. Because I would like to point out that the dramaturgy of these festivals is already being prepared and that the dramaturgy is very difficult to prepare and soloists and excellent foreign performers are invited if you don't know how much the ministerial official will eventually allow you to shave in April somewhere in February, March. And until then, of course, sponsors, because the state contribution is only a minority part of the financing of these festivals, until then, sponsors are also careful, because they say: we will support you, but we will see if the state will support you, because the festivals serve the state in particular. That's his diplomacy, that's his prestige, that's his totally unique display closet and one of the few family silverware we have! Why are we afraid of classical music representing us in the world? I beg you very much to support this amendment, so that we do not succumb to this small amount of supreme arrogance, when it will sound: we do not care, Mr Adam - I am not saying this now through the President, because I am not saying this, unfortunately, that is what the Coalition Council has said - we do not care that you have worked on it for x weeks and months and that you have invested your own political capital in it when you have persuaded the public and the music public that this is a good decision. We don't care that across the political spectrum, the entire budget committee thought it was a good decision. We just don't want it! At the same time, I assure you that this is an amount that is below the discernment of the Minister of Finance when approving the state budget. We really don't have to worry about breaking any concept here. Finally, I would like to say that no one in the civilized cultural world knows who Kalousek is, certainly no one knows who Babiš is, and surely no one knows who Herman is. But everyone knows what Prague Spring is and what prestige the Czech Republic brings. Please think about it when you vote!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u117	Thank you. I have a series of factual points. We will begin with Minister Daniel Herman, then Mr Ivan Pilný, Mr Andrle and Mr Adam. Please, Minister, you have the floor of a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u118	Thank you. I want to start again by thanking you, because President Kalousek is right about most things. He's an art-loving man, I can confirm that, because we meet on a number of cultural businesses both in our country and abroad, and I appreciate that. He is also right in that the festivals he mentioned are very important, which is why in his budget the Ministry of Culture remembers them both in the next year and this year. However, we are trying to introduce systemicity into the distribution of funds so that some are not privileged, some are more equal than others, so that the system of grant commissions is not surrounded. That's not where the ministry officials sit, it's the experts. This means that, in full recognition of the importance of these festivals, and I am a participant of them, fully aware of the importance they have for the presentation of the Czech Republic abroad, for example, 14 days ago at Carnegie Hall in New York at the Czech Philharmonic concert, which was a fabulous experience, I realize with full responsibility that we have to take care of them, and I also guarantee that we will take care of them - but again I say systemically, fairly, with regard to other festivals, which, unlike these big six, are about fifteen others, and also with the fact that we do not want to indebt future generations by pulling some privileged ones out of a certain system. So thank you once again for this support, which I really appreciate, and I believe that we will succeed in this side of culture in the next year's aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u119	Thank you. Mr Ivan is now pilný with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on science, research and innovation - evergreen, which is going on here. The truth is that in 2010 and 2013, some funds were spent on this area, and the good question is what really happened to them. The Czech economy is still falling on the competitiveness chart, and I do not see any overwhelming significant results in this area. I'm not saying there aren't any, but unfortunately, the amount of money doesn't match the results. And we have to fix the system in some way, not pour it into it. The second thing that concerns ESA Space Agency. On the Economic Committee, I think, unanimously, a request for a contribution of 350 million was voted on by the Committee on Budgets. I think that's quite appropriate, because it shows great results and also represents us in the world very well. On the other hand, it is necessary to realise that the new Minister of Transport has arrived, he has to get his bearings in the department, and he has actually had a minimal impact on the budget, and we are actually adjusting the budget with parliamentary proposals. I spoke with the Minister and he assured me that he would follow this matter very closely, and even under possible budgetary rules that could change over the course of the year, he would pay great attention to this. It's quite appropriate, but at this point, it would be very unserious to him if we were to adjust his budget, which he is not in any way responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I had the ambition to begin the vote before 12 o'clock. I'm not gonna make it because we have six more factual points. Of course, priority rights and factual remarks are electronic, so remember who you are reporting with a factual remark. I shall abide by the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mr Andrle, who reported during Mr Kalousek's discussion speech, then Mr Petr Adam. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u122	Hello, Mr President, fellow Members. I am a member of the subcommittee on culture, which is why I have to confirm Mr Kalousek's words and others's because we have long participated in these amendments and discussed them. It has been several meetings, and I therefore very much intercede for you to support both Mrs Kovářová's proposal and the Committee on Budgets, as well as what Mr Kalousek said here. Believe me, I'm a repairer of monuments, especially churches. For example, in October 28th, we opened a church in Slatina, and I know what it is to get resources from various sources. Therefore, I intercede, vote in favour of the amendments for culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u123	I thank Mr Andrle. Now, before Mr Adam's speech, allow me to make an apology for the next meeting. Today, Mrs Nina Nováková apologizes at the afternoon meeting at 5:00 p.m. Mr. Pavel Šrámek apologizes after 11:00 on account of his foreign travel. That's the thing. Before I hand over the management of the meeting, I remind the rapporteur that the first thing we will vote on is the vote on the proposal made by Mr Fiedler, which means the withdrawal of his amendment. We have already approved the voting procedure and, in this respect, the first thing that must be preceded is that the House agrees to withdraw this amendment, so that we can implement the Rules of Procedure. I now ask Mr Petr Adam to take the floor in a factual remark. Mr. Richard Dolejš will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u124	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I just really want to correct Mr Kalousek's minor injustice. I swear to you, neither of Adam's Members defended this budget on TV - not only because they don't invite us on TV, but simply because we can't defend this budget. There are several derivatives called Adam and the pure foundation of the word I'm sure it wasn't Adam, really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u125	Thank you. We still have Mr Richard Dolejš's resignation. Mr Stanjura, then Mr Michal Kučera, then Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u126	After all, the budget discussion brought some news. Ministers are resisting getting more money into their resorts. That's quite unusual, I don't understand at all. I understand if we were to take other ministers that those who were losing that money would be defending themselves here and saying, "I really need them. On that note with the new Minister of Transport, how we're gonna make it harder for him. Well, we're not gonna make it any harder for him by adding money. I'm sure you didn't. He's the problem -- either we solve it today, or we have to deal with it over the year. If we solve it today, he'll have more time to fix his predecessor's mistakes, and he won't have to deal with ESA. So the argument doesn't add up. If we wanted to take money from the new transport minister, that would cause him a problem. And if it wasn't so sad, I would laugh at the idea of the Minister of Culture, how the wise committee will meet and decide whether to support the Prague Spring, the International Music Festival Český Krumlov, Smetana Litomyšl, Dvořák's Prague, Autumn Struna, Czech Year of Music and Janáček's May. There are seven of them - no, six, but that's not entirely relevant. Are we serious? Are we gonna do this every year? And we're gonna wait to see what this committee is gonna tell us if the Prague Spring is good or bad? It really seems like an invention to me. And what my colleague Kalousek said is that he's just afraid of the finance minister at this point, that's true. You can get the money right today, and you can get it to the resort. And you don't want them, and you're gonna set up a wise committee that decides whether the Prague Spring deserves money or not. I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u127	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, nice noon. With another point of fact, Mr Michal Kučera is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u128	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to my previous speaker Mr Pilný's speech. Mr Pilný has been telling us so much here for several times that the YES movement gives less money for science and research because he wants to fix the system first so that money does not pour into a black hole called science and research. I might agree with this thesis if the government coalition did so in all cases. I want to point out that the government coalition is pouring more money into the social field without fixing this black hole that we call the social area, however it can be. The government coalition is pouring more money into the health system without fixing the black hole we call the health system. However, there is no money left for science and research of the ANO movement and the government coalition, because it must first fix the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u129	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u130	Thank you. It wasn't about Mr Adam, it was about Mr Adámek. I'm sorry, both of you. But I was gonna say, Mr. Secretary, you're against each other. You're saying I don't want the money now because I want to split it systemically. This means, as a result of this systemic approach, that these major international festivals will not know today, but only in February, March, or until April, what state contribution they can expect. It's system like thunder! If they knew that today, their chief dramaturgs would be in a much simpler and more systematic situation than if they didn't know it for six months. Nota bene gave the proposal to the subcommittee on culture with the knowledge that it puts it on the most important excellence, because we have to support excellence in particular. Unfortunately, there have been cases in the past where an important body, which no one knew outside the district, consisting of a harmonician and conductor, was declared a festival and received a grant from state money. This is also not something that should please us. Oh, don't piss me off. If your grant commission deals with such festivals, well, they'll be at their disposal by 46 miles. more, because the amendment will be adopted today, and those international jewels of which there is no doubt will already be saturated by the State Budget Act, which will undoubtedly be approved today. And you say, "I don't want it." I want it to be done systemically from a volume of 46 miles. smaller. Somebody try to tell me what's in the system. All I really see in this is incredible alibiism and fear of a supreme decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u131	Thank you for keeping time. I have two more factual points here. First of all, Minister Herman and another Member of the Chalupa. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u132	Thank you. Again, I have no choice but to agree with what has been said here. But we have to move in conditional. If that were possible, I would very much welcome it. I must say that, for example, what is read as an amendment for the Prague Spring is exactly the amount that the Prague Spring received this year, and I do not see the slightest reason for it to be different next year. Of course, if these things can be dealt with optimally, I will be the first to raise my hand. And I am not a responsible member of this government, and as I am with you, Mr President, at a time when I was director of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, I was negotiating the budget of this state institution when you were the Minister of Finance, and I certainly was not afraid of you, so today I am responsiblely negotiating the budget for my department with the current finance minister, which I am also not afraid of, and I am glad that we are able to find, as I said, a resonating point of view that our resort could live and live in reality. That means $2.3 billion more doesn't seem very good to me. But thank you again for all your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u133	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Chalupa, after whom President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u134	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I think we all have some idea why we're having such an extensive discussion here, basically, about something that was discussed in the committees. I have mentioned several times that committees are meant to discuss these matters. Only if we are talking about priorities and excellency, folks, will I again appeal and point out - the excellency and priority is the security of this country. We know from the last few events that we have bigger or smaller problems in this area. So if anything's a priority, it's security. I think the budget respects all the resorts equally. I don't want to touch any of the resorts and any of the citizens and the public, but if we talk about excellence and priority, it's the security of this country and the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u135	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by President Kalousek, after whom Mr Laudát. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u136	In a way, you're right. Members of the government should be bound to defend the government's proposal as it has been approved and not support the amendments. The Minister of Obedience is supposed to act like one. The fact is, I've never remembered any obedient minister of culture, and then they did the opposite to me in the House. Oh, please. If you have this attitude, you can do nothing but respect it. But that is no reason for Members who have spent several months doing so to respect this position. The Sovereign is the Chamber of Deputies. The sovereign is neither government nor individual ministers. [[Highly:]] And once again, it is CZK 46 million, which is an amount that is not capable of deflecting the concept and priorities of the state budget in any way. No finance minister is able to estimate his income with a precision of CZK 46 million! It is an amount which corresponds to the competence of the Minister of Finance to decide to give this amount to the government's budgetary reserve separately without the Government's consent. It is a marginal amount in terms of the volume that we are approving today, and yet it is absolutely crucial and crucial for the international festivals that we are all proud of! When the opening fanfares of these festivals and you ask where you have the tickets to be seen in the first row, please remember that you want to be there in the first row because it is an extremely representative matter of the whole Czech Republic towards the civilized cultural world!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u137	Thank you. The last point of fact that I am registering is that of Mr Laudát. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u138	Thank you for the floor. I'll get back to the ESA program. I don't know what the Minister will be watching. We'll just send the money in, Mr. Deputy Dobeš will sign up, mediate the payment of a member's contribution, and the companies will start working there. What's the problem? What do you want with the committee? It's been a year. For God's sake! If something is standard with very high added value and relatively smooth, it's just this. That's the kind of statement I'd understand in the case of e.g. the construction of transport infrastructure, where the preparations provide uncertain parameters. To Mr Chalupa. You know, and don't train me if it was 1943, or 1942, when she was looking for Great Britain, where she would still get the last funds to defend the country, which cabinet minister suggested that we might even shorten the culture. Then the pragmatist, the super pragmatist, the brutal pragmatist Churchill said, "Can you tell me what we're going to fight for?"
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u139	Thank you. I'll read two apologies I've run out of. From 16.15 p.m., Mr. Jiří Štětina apologizes for today's meeting and from 14.30 to 16 p.m., Minister Válková apologises for personal reasons. Given that I do not see any entry into the debate or factual comment, if no one is actually making a statement, I am ending the debate. I ask the appellant and the rapporteur whether they will take the final floor. The final word will not be held. We should now proceed to the vote on the amendments. However, since Mr Fiedler has decided to withdraw one of his proposals, since we have an approved voting procedure, we must first put the vote to that point. The House will have to express whether it agrees or disagrees with the elimination of the point. Will you make this proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u140	I would ask my colleague to clarify what amendment is involved in saying this directly on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u141	I therefore ask Mr Fiedler to come and load which amendment he wishes to withdraw from the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u142	It is Amendment B12.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u143	I shall vote that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to withdraw the amendment under number B12 from the following vote. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It's vote number 103. The present Members and Members are 183, in favour of proposal 178, against no one. The motion was accepted. I ask you, Mr rapporteur, to present the various amendments now and to comment on them before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u144	Thank you. We've approved the procedure. I'd just like to remind you that we're going to proceed so-called. an additive principle, which means that each additional approved item is added or deducted to the items already agreed. It's traditional. Unless there's any objection to that...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u145	Is there any objection to the proposed procedure? That's not the case, in which case we can proceed like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u146	We would therefore now vote on a set of amendments, which are in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, on a case-by-case basis. The first one is A1. It's a transfer to the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u147	Your position? [[Agreed.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion. Who's against the proposal? It's vote number 104. Members present 184, for proposal 184, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u148	Furthermore, point A2 is also a transfer in the chapter of the Ministry of Health. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u149	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is voting number 105, Members of Parliament and Members 184, in favour of proposal 183, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u150	Amendment under point A3, also a transfer under Chapter of the Ministry of Health. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u151	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 106, the Members present are 184, in favour of proposal 171, against 10. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u152	A4 - also transfer within the Ministry of Health chapter. Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u153	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's vote number 107. Members present are 184, in favour of proposal 180, against 4. The motion was accepted. We can move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u154	A5, basically the same thing within the Ministry of Health chapter. Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u155	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is voting number 108, the Members present is 184, in favour of the 169 proposal, against 14. The motion was accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u156	A6, which is an increase in funds for contribution organisations within the Ministry of Culture. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u157	Thank you, Mr. Minister? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is voting number 109, the Members present is 183, for proposal 80, against 80. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u158	A7, Ministry of Culture, increase in support of living art. My position of disapproval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u159	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion. Who's against the proposal? It is a 110 vote, and the Members present are 184, in favour of proposal 79, against 71. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u160	A8, which is the abolition of program 133610 of Ministry of Education. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u161	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I didn't understand if I could ask. [[- Agreed.]] Agreed. [[Noise and comments in the hall.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion. Who's against the proposal? It is voting number 111, the Members present are 182, in favour of proposal 129, against 28. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u162	A9, which is an increase in expenditure in independent chapters on salaries that could not have been affected when we previously approved so-called independent chapters. Affirmative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u163	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is the 112 vote, and the Members present are 184, in favour of the 168 proposal, against 13. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u164	A10, this is related to the service law. Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u165	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is voting number 113, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 182, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u166	A11 is a disagreement. [[- Disagree. Noise in the hall.]] The A11 is basically an adjustment in the VPS to raise salaries, the means to increase the salaries of constitutional officials. But because, of course, we have agreed to what we have agreed under the Act on the salaries of constitutional officials, the 180 million will be dealt with in a different way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u167	Okay. Both the rapporteur and the petitioner expressed their disagreement. [[Rapporteur: Disagree.]] The Minister also disagrees. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion. Whoever opposes the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. It is the vote number 114, the Members present is 185, for the proposal there was no one against 102. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u168	A12, Ministry of Culture, Monuments, Disapproval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u169	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 115, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 83, against 62. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u170	A13 - amount to prepare the construction of the Supreme Audit Office. Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u171	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is the 116 vote, the Members present are 185, in favour of the 163 proposal, against 14. The motion was accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u172	A14, which is a billion for sport in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth. As much as I am interested in strengthening the resources for sport, I respect the coalition's position. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u173	Dissenting position. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion. Who's against the proposal? It is the 117 order vote, the Members present are 179, for proposal 67, against 68. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u174	A15, which is the Ministry of Culture, promoting art and professional orchestras. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u175	Thank you. [[- Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is voting number 118, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 87, against 65. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u176	This has dealt with all the amendments from the budget committee resolution, and we would now vote on the amendments that were read at second reading. B1 - I think it's unvoting. This concerns mineral mining charges, where tax revenue is not specifically determined by the increase to which it is intended. I don't think it's voteable. But, of course, if there is any objection, we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u177	Okay. I'm asking the Minister for an opinion. [[I don't agree with that.]] Thank you. President Stanjura may take the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u178	I object. The fact that someone disagrees is okay. But I reject the interpretation that it's unvoting. In our opinion, this is a voteable one and the House will decide by its vote whether it will accept it or not. It's faster than fighting for ten minutes, whether or not it's voteable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u179	Okay, thank you. President Hamáček with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u180	I'm sorry, I'm just gonna take advantage of the situation and the pauses in the vote. I do not question voting 111, I just want to say that I voted no, and I have a yes on high. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u181	Thank you. Since we have two proposals here, whether this amendment is voteable or not...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u182	I said that if there is an objection, we can also vote on a second amendment, which is essentially identical. My opinion is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u183	Okay, I propose that we vote separately on each point, both Amendment B1, and Amendment B2, with a separate vote, first voting on the counterproposal of President Stanjura that the proposal is voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u184	Mr Vice-President, I apologize, but I think that this is redundant because I said that I agree with this in order to vote, and even though I said that opinion, it already covered point B1. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u185	So we're voting on proposal B1. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion. Who's against the proposal? It is voting number 119, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 82, against 92. The motion was denied. We will therefore proceed in the same way to Amendment B2, accepting that we will vote on it. Your position? [[Rapporteur: Inconvenient.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 120, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 82, against 97. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u186	I also have a note with B3 here that I think it is unvoteable because it is not offset, but if, of course, there is an opinion again that it is necessary to vote or vote, I am not resisting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u187	So I am asking a question, given that the rapporteur says that proposal B3 is unvoteable, whether there is an objection to this procedure and we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u188	I see my colleague Hovorka, if he wants to vote, we can vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u189	Okay. In that case, I'm asking for your opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 121, the Members present are 185, for proposal 2, against 130. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u190	B4, which is the Czech Freedom Warriors Union, 1,700,000. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u191	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 122, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 158, against 10. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u192	B5, which is the Ministry of Culture, respectively. strengthening the State Cinematography Fund, film incentives, by 300 million. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u193	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 123, the Members present are 183, in favour of proposal 68, against 83. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u194	B6 - transfer within the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u195	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? We have a vote with order number 124, the Members and Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 159, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u196	Another is B7, which is to support the development of the reconstruction of the material technical base of regional education. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u197	Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 125, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 83, against 78. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u198	Amendment under B8, which is the strengthening of the chapter of the Ministry of Environment, the Landscape Care Programme. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u199	I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It was a vote with order number 126, Members of Parliament and Members 184, in favour of proposal 68, against 85. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u200	B9 - Technological Agency, 325 miles. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u201	Thank you and begin the vote. I ask who is in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 127, the Members present are 184, in favour of proposal 41, against 93. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u202	B11. It also concerns the Technological Agency, a dissenting opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u203	Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this amendment to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 128, the Members present are 184, for 42, against 88. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u204	Mr Vice-President, I have to apologize because we voted B9 at the Technological Agency, which was 200 miles. Kroner, I said 325 miles, but it was about a B10 that we didn't vote on. I skipped that one. If you declare a mistrial vote B9 and we vote again... I'm so sorry. I said B9 and I said 325 miles. It wasn't 325 miles, it was 200 miles. And then it's B10, which is a Technological Agency, 325 miles, and we didn't vote on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u205	That is correct, we did not vote on Amendment B10, which means I declare the vote on B9 confusing. The President shall apply with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u206	I'm sorry, but we can't bend the rules like this. There was a vote, you announced the results. If anyone has an objection, let them question it. We can't pronounce an ex-post misguided. A mistake can happen, but we can't do it because next time it will be done in any other vote. You've properly announced the results of the vote, you can't say after two minutes that it was confusing. There may be some confusion, but obviously it wasn't a mistrial vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u207	Thank you, colleague. Basically, I didn't say anything else. I was just asking if this was going to be messy. But you're right. We're going to vote on B10, which is the 325-Technological Agency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u208	In that case, I would like to ask whether there is a proposal against voting only on Amendment B10. [[Several Members are arguing in the alleys in both the left and right of the hall.]] Do you have an objection? First, Mr Urban with an objection and then Mrs Putnová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u209	Thank you. I think that colleague Stanjura is wrong because the rapporteur, and I do not blame him because there are many proposals, said B9, but he said the amount from the B10 vote. This means that it was basically a mistrial vote because it was supposed to say B9 - an amount of CZK 200 million. I think we can get back to that in a normal way. If you have a problem with that, I object to the B9 vote because there were no numbers with a number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u210	Mrs Putnová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u211	I wanted to point out the same thing. The question is whether we will follow the letters in the vote or the amount. If we voted by the amount, we didn't vote by B9.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u212	Okay. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u213	I don't read the amount of all these amendments. My friends, you have tables, so if I hadn't read at all what this is about, and read only a serial number, I'd do it right. I'm doing this way beyond really knowing what we're voting on. So I think when I said B9 and I said another amount, we just voted for B9.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u214	Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u215	Mr Vice-President, you should have put Mr Urban's objection to the vote without debate right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u216	Okay. I will do so now. That is, I am voting on whether Mr Urban's objection to saying this right now is to repeat the vote on Amendment B9. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this objection, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 129, the Members present is 185, for 180, there was no one against it. In that case, the objection was accepted and we will again vote on Amendment B9 and then on Amendment B10.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u217	B9 - dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u218	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 130, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 44, against 94. The motion was denied. We can move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u219	B10 - disagreeable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u220	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? We have a vote with order number 131, the Members present are 184, for proposal 40, against 87. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u221	We voted on B11. B12 has been withdrawn. B13 - this concerns the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. The position is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u222	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 132, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 28, against 117. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u223	B14 - this is an increase in the expenditure of the Ministry of Transport chapter - European Space Agency. There are two options. That means we should vote on the first option. The option is essentially a reduction in the General Treasury, if this is the case. If it passes, then, of course, it is no longer worth voting on the second option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u224	Okay, thank you. [[Rapporteur: Opinion is disagreeable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 133, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 81, against 80. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u225	So we have dealt with this amendment. Amendment under order number B15 - Ministry of Justice, 35 million for assistants regarding supervision of executives. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u226	Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u227	That didn't work. So I said that... So I asked you, if variant one doesn't pass and the whole thing doesn't pass, then if there's any point in voting on it. There's no point in voting anymore. Does he?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u228	But when this procedure was presented, no one objected. That's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u229	I thought that... My colleague Stanjura nods that he agrees with me. [[Member Stanjura from the right side of the hall states his opinion but is not understood.]] Oh, okay, okay. I'm sorry, colleague. Okay. So once again, we're going to vote on B14 with option two. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u230	In that case, Mr. Secretary? Opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this option, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this option, this proposal? It is a vote with order number 134, Members of Parliament and Members 185, in favour of proposal 89, against 79. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u231	Now let's go back to B15. Like I said, it's the Justice Department, 35 million crowns. Disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u232	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 135, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 88, against 75. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u233	B16 - that's identical to the order number A7, it's the Ministry of Culture. It's support for living art. But we've already voted and voted negative, so I don't think it's voteable. It is the same amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u234	President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u235	With an objection. The rapporteur's position is logical, though. It's usually the way it's done. But when I see him changing his own views illogically by the chairman of the budget committee and the rapporteur of the Chamber of Deputies, I think it's fair to try again. Maybe somebody will figure it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u236	Okay. An objection has been raised which I will put to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u237	Mr colleague, please leave my views, through the President, to me. If you want to vote, we can vote on it. My opinion is equally negative. [[Laughs in the hall.]] You wanted to vote on the amendment under B16? I'm not defending myself. My position is no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u238	I will enter into this debate and specify it. Since both proposals are dealing with the same amount, for this reason I am leaning towards the rapporteur's position and I say that the point is unvoting. If you object to my procedure, I will put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u239	That's how I felt. I raised the objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u240	Mr. Stanjura, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u241	I am sorry, but instead of being the Committee's rapporteur and holding the Committee's positions, the rapporteur has become the Coalition Council's rapporteur. And then the problem is that we toiled with it in the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Budgets adopted it by all votes, virtually. from all political parties, and now the rapporteur, instead of saying according to the budget committee, which I am chairman, and we voted in favour, I too, am yes, so he says no. So instead of being the committee's rapporteur, he became the coalition board's rapporteur. And that's where all the confusion comes from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u242	And I will put it to the vote immediately, because an objection has been raised when, as a steering meeting, I say that I agree that the proposal is not voteable. There's been an objection to my progress. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of Mr Kalousek's objection that this proposal should be voted on. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 136, Members present is 185, in favour of proposal 62, against 93, i.e. The House has voted that this objection is not justified and this point is unvoting. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u243	The next item is B17, an identical amendment to the B13 proposal, the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. I don't think it's voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u244	At this point, I think that this proposal is voteable because I was one of his translators and there were really other figures. [[Laughs in the hall.]] from the right.)
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u245	Okay, then we'll vote on him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u246	I know both amendments, which is why I know that the amendment to the Dawn movement was different from mine. In that case, we will vote if there is no objection. I'm asking your opinion. [[Rapporteur: Disagree. - Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 137, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 35, against 107. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u247	B18, which is the Railway Authority. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u248	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 138, Members of Parliament and Members 185, on proposal 34, against 131. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u249	B19, Ministry of Transport. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u250	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 139, the Members present are 185, in favour of proposal 80, against 95. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u251	B20, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, transfer within the scope of the chapter. Affirmative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u252	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? We have a vote with order number 140, the Members present are 185, for proposal 155, against 2. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u253	B21. It's identical to the serial number A12, these are monuments. Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. I think it's unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u254	Does anyone object to voting? Mrs. Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u255	I would like to object to the fact that the Chamber of Deputies now has the possibility of a reparate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u256	As much as I may have been wrong about an amendment that was voteable earlier, I really think it is unvoteable here. But if it's an objection, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u257	Since these are more or less the same amounts from the same chapters, I agree with the rapporteur's view that this proposal is not voteable. [[Inconvenient noise in plenary.]] But since an objection has been raised, I will put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of Mrs Kovářová's objection, as she has been raised, to press the button and raise her hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 141, the Members present are 185, for 56, against 81. Objection has not been accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u258	The last vote on amendments is point B22, which is the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports - respectively. Excuse me, President's Office, down by 1.5 miles. in favour of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u259	Your position? [[Rapporteur: Inconvenient. - Disagree.]] Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 142, the Members present are 184, in favour of proposal 37, against 82. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u260	Mr Vice-President, if there is no objection, we have dealt with all the amendments from both the budget committee resolution and second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u261	Thank you. Do you want to get off before we vote on the final vote? Then, first of all, President Fiala, after him, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u262	Thank you for the floor. I don't want the budget anymore, but just the procedure. Mr President, rapporteur, I think - with respect to you - that you cannot decide for the Chamber of Deputies, which is voteable and which is unvoteable. Just because the paper has the same date or the same amount doesn't mean that the design is identical, that someone printed it on the copy machine. Notabene especially when it is administered by different persons. And I think that whether the proposal is voteable or unvoteable, even if it differs in just one word, should be decided by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u263	I do not wish to argue, my colleague, through the President. I admitted my mistake where I made it. And, of course, I believe that where there really are two identical ones - in the amount, in the title, even if they are two different translators, then, of course, if one passes or fails, the other is no longer a voteable one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u264	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, allow a brief summary. The reasons why we cannot support this budget have been made clear enough at first, second and third reading, after all. What increases our vigilance and the inability to support this standard in any way is the fact that the government is not telling the truth about it. The government is blurry about it, the government is deceiving in a number of indicators, even denying its own figures by verbal act, and none of the members of the government - sorry, not one of the members of the government, but either the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister did not want or could not answer a number of specific questions that were raised here in the debate. Therefore, the TOP 09 MEP cannot support the state budget for 2015. Finally, allow me to confide in my deep disappointment over the very hypocritical and, from my point of view, the false argument of the Minister of Culture on the amendments that were directed towards his budget chapter. He was very convincing here about how, as a member of the government, he had to defend the government's proposal as agreed, but he thanked us very much for his support. In the case of another budget chapter, where he was convinced, he did not hesitate to submit an amendment alone against the Government proposal and to vote in favour of this amendment. In other words, he just didn't want the resources for the chapter of the Ministry of Culture! Because if he wanted them, he himself showed us that he had no problem voting against the government proposal. Today, Minister, you have damaged the Czech culture just so that you can probably enjoy the decision-making of the Highness, because if the Chamber of Deputies decided on the funds today, the representatives of the festival would no longer have to climb their knees before you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u266	Now with priority rights, Vice-President Gazdík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u267	My apologies, dear colleagues, for interrupting. I just found out at the junkyard that I wanted to vote no in the 137 vote, and I've got a pro on the junk. I'm not questioning the vote, I'm just stating it for the tape screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u268	Thank you. I shall now make a motion for a resolution. As all proposals have been voted on, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 and with the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015, according to the House Press 331, as amended by the approved amendments, as annexed to this resolution." Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 143. Members present are 183, in favour of proposal 106, against 48. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[A round of applause from members of the YES and government benches.]] Thank you. I'm interrupting the meeting until 2:30 p.m. with an organizational committee meeting in five minutes. Thank you and have a pleasant afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-001-079.u269	Good afternoon, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. Allow me to welcome you to this afternoon's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, wish you well after lunch. I'll read the apologies first. Mr Farský apologizes from this afternoon's meeting. Mr Pavel Havíř apologizes further for working reasons from 14.30, and Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek apologizes today from 15.30 for working reasons. Mr Petr Kudela apologizes from 15.30 to 16.30 for personal reasons, and Mr Daniel Korte apologises today between 14 and 15.00 for professional reasons. Those were some tickets. We will continue with the next item on our agenda, which is item number
