ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-010-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and amending certain laws (water law), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /German press 177/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Mr Antonín Prachař will present the proposal. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-010-013.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make an introduction to the proposed law number 114. The proposed amendment to the Inland Navigation Act brings about changes in the part governing the operation of ports. The conditions for issuing a permit for the operation of the land part of ports and for the revocation of that permit shall be newly laid down, and the list of public ports shall be amended. For the use of a public port it will be possible to negotiate a price according to price rules. The area of operation of other important places on the water path, such as the marina, the port, the platform, and the berth, is newly introduced into the law. Due to the need to respond in national law to the updated version of United Nations Economic Commission for Europe's Resolution No. 24 on navigation rules on inland waterways in Europe of 1986 and to the needs of inland navigation practice, the proposed draft law introduces a new regulation of the rules on navigation. This area is currently only contained in the decree. According to the proposed legislation, the rules of navigation will continue to be contained in two legislations. The law on inland navigation will lay down the primary rights and obligations of participants in navigation, define the jurisdiction of the navigation office, issue of individual administrative acts, measures of a general nature and lay down penalties for non-compliance with legal obligations. The implementing legislation shall then lay down the details concerning the method of ensuring the safety and smoothness of the voyage within the limits of the statutory obligations of navigation operators and the types of navigation on the waterway and its importance. In view of the development of the use of vessels for sports purposes, the requirements of practice, public response and the need to ensure the safety of the persons wishing to operate these activities, and the other participants in the navigation service, the bill brings a conceptual change. The operation of certain types of vessels, in the case of current legislation in particular of jet skis, but the operation of vessels in a specific way, shall not be subject to all the obligations of the skipper and crew member laid down by law. At the same time, the Law lays down which specific provisions do not apply to the operation of vessels on defined water areas. Another objective of the proposed legislation is to enable the implementation of European Union law, that is to say, measures relating to the transposition of Directive 2008/68/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 on the inland transport of dangerous goods and the implementation of Regulation No 1177/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on the rights of passengers travelling by sea and on inland waterways, and to the amendment of Regulation No 2006. The European Commission has initiated an infringement of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union against the Czech Republic for the non-application of that Regulation. [[the management of:]] The bill was previously submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, but it was not discussed because of its dissolution. In view of the delay in the legislative process as a result of the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, and in particular in the light of the above infringement procedure of the Treaty of the European Union vis-à-vis the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Transport proposes to shorten the deadline for the consideration of the bill in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies to half. It is one of the laws that has not been implemented and has indeed been ordered by the European Commission to act against the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-010-013.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Stanislav Pfléger. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-010-013.u4	Hello, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The Inland Navigation Act is 1995 and has undergone very limited amendments over almost 17 years. The current bill responds to a number of changes in European and Czech legislation, and fundamentally to the obligations of a Member State of the European Union since the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. This proposal has already been approved by the Government in 2013 and has been sent to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. Due to the dissolution of the House in 2013, it was no longer discussed, and because it primarily addresses the implementation of the relevant European directives and regulations, the deadlines set for this implementation have expired. In view of the above, I recommend that we agree to the discussion and the commandments of the Economic Committee and the proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion within the Economic Committee by 30 days. At the same time, I recommend the subsequent discussion and adoption of the amendment during the next, that is, the June meeting. The reason for this is the ongoing infringement procedure with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-010-013.u5	Thank you and I am now opening up a general debate and asking if anyone wants to join it. At this point, I do not register any entries in the debate. In that case, I am ending the general debate and I would like to ask the applicant's final words or the rapporteur. You want the final word? You don't want to. Thank you. I have noted that we should vote on a reduction in the time limit for discussion to 30 days. Have I noted this proposal well, Mr proposer, rapporteur? [[They nod in agreement.]] Yes, for 30 days. At this point, I'm going to check you all out, because it looks like the number of people in the room has changed again. I'm signing you off, and I'm asking you to log back into the system. Thank you. At this point, I am opening the vote on reducing the time limit for the law to 30 days. I'm initiating vote number 38 and I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the deadline for 30 days, press the button and raise your hand. Thank you. Who's against it? Or who got held up? I'm ending this vote. The number 38 vote was in Hall 124, 119 for the adoption of this proposal. This means that the proposal to shorten the deadline has been accepted. We will now consider the motion for a committee's order for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee. I want to ask if anyone else has a motion to discuss it with the next committee. I don't see anyone applying to such a proposal. We will take the vote. I am opening the vote number 39 with the one who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee. It's vote number 39. If you agree, raise your hand and press the button. Who's in? Who's against it? Who got held up? I conclude the vote number 39, 129 Members present in the Chamber, in favour 127. This proposal was adopted. I note that this bill has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee. I'm done discussing this point and we're going to move on. The next item is
