ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Minister. I begin today the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I have no such information yet. I would like to tell you that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Mr Adam - health reasons, Mrs Adamová - working reasons, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - health reasons, Mr Brázdil - health reasons, Mr Janulík - working reasons, Mr Kolovratník - health reasons, Mr Schwarzenberg - working reasons, Mr Šarapatka within 10 o'clock - personal reasons, Mr Štětina from 12 o'clock - personal reasons, Mr Volčík - working reasons, Mr Vondráček - working reasons and Mr Zlatuška from 11 o'clock - working reasons. The Prime Minister apologizes from the members of the government, but he is here, so he apologizes from 9.50, I suppose, and between 12.45 and 14 o'clock for work reasons, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš - family reasons, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek - working reasons, Minister Dienstbier - working reasons, Minister Herman - working reasons, Minister Šlechtová also working reasons. At today's meeting we have firmly placed points in this order. Point 144, then point 3, point 97, point 8, 54, 55, 56 and 59 and point 137 are fixed at 11.30 and points 12 and 136 are fixed at 12.30. I see Mr. Sklenák, chairman of the Social Democracy Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I would take the liberty of making one motion to change the program. I would like to propose to include a new item at this meeting, namely the House press 297, which is an amendment to the Act on granting benefits to disabled persons. Let me just remind you, we discussed the first reading of this law on September 26th. A hearing pursuant to Article 90 (1) of the Rules of Procedure has been proposed. 2, that's when this hearing was vetoed by two clubs. The Committee on Social Policy has discussed this press, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree with it, and I will just remind you that it is a very important law for people with disabilities, because if this law is not approved by the end of the year, the holders of certificates of extraordinary benefits and licences of persons with disabilities -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u3	I am sorry, Mr President, but the noise level is too high to monitor what the President is proposing. Please keep your voice down or transfer the discussion outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u4	Thank you. So the holders of these cards, if this law were adopted, could exchange these cards without any delay from January next year. On the contrary, if it is not accepted, they will basically have to exchange the cards in an administrative procedure in which their health status will be re-evaluated. So very please, if we could place this point, and if the will of the House is to do so, I suggest we place it as the third point today, i.e. after the children's groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u5	Yes, thank you. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u6	Why this item was not included in this meeting is a simple answer. The government simply neglected the deadline and submitted it late. At this point, it's not appropriate to use emotional blackmail. On behalf of both the ODS and TOP 09 clubs, I veto the proposal of Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u7	Yes, so the veto was raised and the point cannot be included. Just a little apology. When I loaded the individual points that are fixed, at 12:30 it's not a point 12, but a point 120. This is a foreign operation of the Army of the Czech Republic. So please, just so we're clear. It's not point 12, it's point 120. It's okay on the agenda. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Mr. Chairman Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u9	Mr President, I am very sorry. Again and strongly I ask for peace in the House! If the noise level does not decrease, I will be forced to remind Members by name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u10	I would like to ask for a fixed point for the next Wednesday when this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue. This is a point which I anticipated, whose discussion I anticipated today, following the seminar that took place yesterday. All Members should have information about it, because in the end, in addition to the club presidents and the debaters, everyone, including the accompanying resolution, received the invitation. It was a seminar of 25 years of Czech democracy, where they were really representatives of all political parties, i.e. I don't think I saw anybody there except KSČM, but they were also invited because it was supported by the Education Committee, and there was talk about the promotion of civil education. I would like to point out that this is also a part of this - the promotion of civil education is anchored in the Government's programming declaration. In fact, this seminar is accompanied by a resolution that I wanted to present here today and ask for support. It is a declaratory resolution, on one A4 which binds, if I sum it up into one sentence, to support civil education in the Czech Republic. Please pay attention to this, because for time reasons it will not be discussed today, but please include as a fixed point next Wednesday as the first fixed point on Wednesday next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u11	Yes. The item would therefore be called the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the promotion of civil education. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] Yeah, okay. Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u12	I want to say for the opposition parties that the agenda of the meeting is constantly changing, information about when the meeting is due to end. Last night we... We thought we agreed that the meeting would end today. Now we know he's going on Wednesday. So that's no way to work. You can't prepare for a single day like this. So, on behalf of two MPs, I veto the inclusion or object to the inclusion of a new item in this meeting. By the way, I'm just reminding the government coalition that wants to put extra points on Tuesday, Wednesday, that you've called an emergency meeting that starts on Tuesday. And I don't understand that the points she's going to discuss haven't been included in an emergency meeting program. That's how we change the rules every morning and the agenda and all that. We already said that at the last meeting. You promised it would be better, and it's exactly the same as last time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u13	Yes. I am registering the veto of two parliamentary clubs and this will not be possible to vote on either. If they're not... On the agenda, Mr. Ambassador? Please. Member Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u14	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to respond here to what we've been trying to do on Wednesday. And especially after I had the opportunity from the record to see yesterday's discussion in the village of Vlachovice-Vrbětice, as it was going on there, what facts were raised there. On Wednesday of this week, our MP club suggested that the item "negotiation of the situation and situation in the village of Vlachovice after the explosion of the ammunition warehouse and the causes of this event" should be included on the agenda. This Chamber of Deputies, even though Secretary of Defense Stropnický himself agreed to include this point on this day, rejected our proposal, despite the fact that representatives of citizens from Vlachovic personally came to inform us of this request. [[9.10 hours]] I am not going to address the strange reasons why a mild majority of Members voted against this proposal. Especially after what was said in yesterday's discussion with the citizens of Vlachovic, I propose that this item be put on the agenda for this meeting again. Yesterday's discussion in Vlachovice revealed that the concerns of the citizens there were far from being scattered, as well as our reasons for continuing to discuss this point on the House floor... [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, the speaker has quieted down to keep the loud comrades quiet.]] Thank you. At the same time, I call on the Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý that if the House did not allow the House to inform the House itself of its will if, even this time, it did not allow this point to be discussed, regardless of what the House decides. Alternatively, I propose that this item be included immediately on the agenda of the meeting, whichever is to be held next week, immediately after the announced meeting of the Government on Monday. I see events surrounding the explosion in the ammunition warehouse in Vlachovice in two planes. On the one hand, in terms of the immediate resolution of the current situation after the explosions, and thus the calming of the right of the concerned people - and here I completely understand that there is no rush, that, on the other hand, ministers who were present yesterday need to evaluate the situation. However, the second plane is due to the causes and errors that led to this event. According to yesterday's words by Minister Stropnický, who justified discussions with citizens only yesterday, the situation last Friday has not yet been evaluated. For what reason did the appropriate authorities of the Ministry and the government seem to have ignored the entire week of Vlachovice? How is it possible that the state institutions did not know at all how much ammunition was stored on site and that data was only being requested from private companies? The state has absolutely no awareness and control over how many weapons or ammunition are stored and stored in its territory? Minister Stropnický said yesterday that they'll be pushing private companies to hand over lists of what they have there. I'll wait till it's quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u15	Once again, I am asking the Chamber of Deputies to be calm and to allow Mr Fiedler to justify his proposal, however widely he has decided to justify it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u16	Thank you. On the contrary, the present Minister Chovanec said yesterday that the companies immediately supplied lists of what they have in storage, but according to his own words it was only information on paper, and what is, or was, a fact, is still to be collected. Does that mean that the state had no supervision of the movement of ammunition in these warehouses? With military equipment? Is it true, then, what Minister Stropnický said or what Minister chovanec said? How is it possible that the whole object was probably, according to available indications, freely accessible when - as we heard yesterday - there were a large number of holes in the fence through which the animals passed? So what security measures did the storage of ammunition take place? When hetman Mišák said that the rules of transport and logistics of transport must first be laid down, it means that for the current carriages, respectively. expedition, no rules laid down? Who checked this ammunition warehouse? How often and where are the records? Who and how did he conduct his security? Did all companies - they talk about companies in plural - have the authority to deal with military material? Was a fire unit set up directly on the premises and was it an obligation to operate such a storage facility with ammunition? When will the citizens of Vlachovic and the surrounding other municipalities really learn what danger they were in, or rather still at risk? According to yesterday's discussion, which was broadcast by Czech Television, ammunition was stored in the premises simultaneously infantry, artillery and air. Is this possible and have storage conditions been established and checked? And now one more question, I think, serious. How does our state guarantee and control compliance with international conventions where we are committed not to supply weapons when the state has neither knowledge of the species, condition and especially the movement of ammunition in warehouses in our territory? Minister Chovanec said it was a mistake to privatise the security area. I fully agree with this view. How long will this situation continue with us? I expect that The Chamber of Deputies will now change its position and allow this item to be discussed at this meeting, because I believe that there is no need for us to wait for further developments in the situation in this municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, Mr. President of the Dawn Club and then the Minister of the Interior is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Fiedler, here at Dawn, has given a little more extensive reasons why we would like to ask you to include this item in today's meeting on the state of the Vrbětice and Vlachovice warehouse explosion. I would simply add why the Úsvit movement has repeatedly asked - we have asked on Wednesday - for the inclusion of this point. Because, as I said here on Wednesday, Vrbětice-Vlachovice are communities in my former senate district. I know the place very well. Very. Yesterday's press conference - unfortunately, I must say that the citizens were very dissatisfied. Very unhappy with the explanation of government officials. I really refuse to make this a policy. Therefore, I would once again ask that, without any political play, these questions be answered, which we have just created with the citizens who took part in that conference at yesterday's press conference. These are their questions, the questions of Vrbětic-Vlachovic citizens, which were not answered there. They're not just questions about úsvit. Therefore, I ask that these questions be answered. If there is no answer, please ask the government's public promise or the relevant minister when these questions will be answered. I am personally interested in this because I know the citizens and I know the community for a long time. That's the point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u19	Now with priority rights, Mr. Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for those who are interested in the situation in the municipalities concerned in Zlinsk, the Prime Minister has now instructed me to speak on this matter and to clarify some things. [[Members are always having a loud conversation in the hall.]] If you don't mind me asking for peace in the courtroom! If you consider this an important topic, please listen to me! The police of the Czech Republic have been in place from the very beginning, there are bomb squads, there is a fire department and from the very beginning we take this thing very seriously. In the first stage, this problem was reported as a fire of ammunition storage, and I can confirm here that unfortunately at that time the IZS files did not have information on how dangerous the area entered. It's no secret, and it's already been media...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u21	I'm very sorry. We have two options. Either we interrupt the meeting so that you can resolve matters that are not related to the meeting, or the noise level will drop.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u22	From the very beginning, we knew that about 57 tons of ammunition exploded in that building. The ammo is diverse. At present it is true that the state has only information from tenants of these premises, and from these inventories we know what ammunition is there. Unfortunately, it is not possible to enter all objects at the moment and this condition cannot be verified. The current state is that in this part there is an epicenter, the epicenter is still hot and this epicenter acts like a volcano. Sometimes he throws out an object and there's a risk, not a big one, but there's a risk that any of these flying objects could hit one of the 27 warehouses where the ammunition is still in. That's the risk there is. [[9.20 hours]] The second risk that exists there is the risk that the material is spread around and the forest animals are likely to initiate explosions that can trigger the explosion of one of the other objects again. The risk is very small, bomb squads are in place, moving there in a special tank and special suits. The Prime Minister gave a clear message and the Czech Government will deal with this on Monday. The ideal condition we expect in this area is the removal of all material. In all seriousness, I say here that the material is so much that this transport will be carried out in the order of months. It can aggravate climate conditions, such as attacking snow and other things that would postpone cleaning this environment. On Monday the government of the Czech Republic will probably decide on the deployment of the army. The army of probably a hundred men should begin to take part in guarding this space so that we do not, for example, have children or any of the citizens in it. Out of curiosity, out of stupidity, it doesn't matter, but we have to protect the space even better than we do at the moment. There are currently 40 police officers in this area, plus a bomb squad. The overall deployment from the Zlín Police Directorate is about a hundred men in terms of police officers, plus the bomb squad. We're taking this thing very seriously. We have put in a legal assessment, and we are likely today to call on some companies that have their stocks stored in this state property to take them away. It will start with buildings that are further away from the blast site, and will proceed to clear the entire area in the future. If these companies do not show cooperation with the state, if they do not have good will to start taking their supplies away in a matter of days, they must take care of it. We'll coordinate with colleague Stropnický on this matter. The army is ready to help to some extent. The scope will be specified on Monday at the government meeting. Immediately after the government's meeting, I assume the public will be informed. We promised yesterday, colleague Okamura... Mr. Okamura, yesterday we promised citizens -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u23	Through the President, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u24	Does the Minister have to?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u25	Even the minister has to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u26	Well, I'm sorry about the ignorance. Through the President, I tell you that yesterday we agreed with the citizens after a long discussion, when we tried to deal with all their questions, so we agreed that the Regional Police Directorate on its website will update the situation there every day and we are ready for a substantive debate with the citizens so that they do not worry. Mr Kádner was there for you and Mr Kádner, if I am not mistaken, there was also a colleague Váňa, who was there to represent the Chamber of Deputies on this trip, and we are prepared not to underestimate this serious issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u27	Thank you, Minister. Only priority rights. That means President Okamura. I see the Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u28	Dear Minister, thank you very much for giving us a factual explanation of the first part of our question about the situation from now on. Thank you for being material, okay. So we wait after the government meeting on Monday for citizens to get information about what to do with the situation from now on. However, an equally important second part of our group of questions has not been answered. I would therefore repeat them briefly. What are the causes of the condition? We've learned what's going on here, what's going on now and what's going on now. But it's also very important what the causes are. That's why only briefly. I would repeat, perhaps, only three questions or four again, so as not to delay. How is it possible that the state institutions did not know at all how much ammunition was stored on site, and these data were still being requested from private companies? Again, I stress that according to the unofficial information of these warehouses there is more in the Czech Republic close proximity to the residents of the Czech Republic. I would like to ask you for information, both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior, where there are similar warehouses, and we are really shocked that you are standing and I am not saying that this is your fault because you are briefly from this point of view with the Government, but it shocks us that the state institutions do not know how much ammunition is stored in these warehouses. And there are even mid-range missiles. And that's what we're asking private firms to give us a list of ammo. Which gives us the impression that the state has absolutely no awareness and control over how much and where it is actually stored and held. The second question, because I think, and on that, I hope, we all agree that it is now necessary to set up a system solution so that these things do not recur. Indeed, in the immediate vicinity of the residences of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And we ask again how it is possible that the whole object was probably freely accessible when there were a large number of holes in the fence through which the animals passed, as was said yesterday in the discussion and from the mouth of the captain. So what are the safety standards and what is the security security of the storage of ammunition in the Czech Republic in these warehouses, when, as we know, the state doesn't even have a list of where and what ammunition is stored because it only asks for it from private companies? And it's also close to citizens' homes. Also, the captain said yesterday, but we already had the question from earlier, of course, that the rules of transportation and logistics of ammunition from these warehouses must be laid down. This expression shocked me completely, and I say again, it is not exactly a complaint to both ministers, on the contrary, we should work together on this matter, because now things that are not systematically working here have shown up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u29	Mr President, once again I apologize for speaking to you, but once again there is excessive noise. I will ask all those who are discussing, including the Chairman of the Security Committee, to stop discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u30	Because the statement at the press conference yesterday shows that there are no rules on transport and logistics. This means that Karel Fiedler and our MP asked us yesterday after the discussion, which means that when trucks drove around our homes in Vlachovice and Vrbětice for years, and again I say that I know it very well, or I know it quite well there, we didn't even know what kind of ammunition is in it, what kind of ammunition is involved, and now we even know that there are no rules on logistics and handling, and even the captain said so. Therefore, we also ask on behalf of the citizens of Vlachovic and Vrbětic, who, therefore, controlled this ammunition warehouse, how often and where the records are, when even the state does not know what was stored there, and there are not even logistical rules for the removal of such material. Who did his security when there's holes in the fence and there's forest animals running around? Did all the companies have the authority to manipulate military material? It was set up directly on the premises, for example. Fire Department? I'll just say it again, that's the questions. And was it even a duty to have a fire unit operating such a warehouse? It may be a question for a law amendment, but I don't think we should let this problem go to sleep. Furthermore, when will the citizens of Vlachovic and Vrbětice and the surrounding areas really learn what danger they were in and what else they are in danger of? You already answered that. But they'd like to know what they were in danger of. As far as it could escalate. To know in the future what everything can be prepared for, also other citizens of the Czech Republic, where there are similar warehouses. And once again, I repeat the question: where are the other similar warehouses? Or are we really gonna find out at the moment that something's gonna blow up and there's no rules? And the last question, virtually. second to last. Again, according to the information, ammo was stored simultaneously by infantry, artillery and air. And once again the citizens of Vlachovic-Vrbětic ask through us: How is it possible or is it possible for such ammunition to be stored together? Minister Chovanec said yesterday that there was a mistake, and I repeat again the question that the security area has been privatised. We really want to ask: Will the government take action on this? When did the Minister come to this view, and what steps are being taken in this regard not to repeat such a thing? And once again, I would like to stress one last question that citizens still do not know what was the cause of the evacuation of the villages of Vlachovice and Vrbětice. Therefore, I would really ask again, repeatedly, to submit the information here and the state of the art. From now on, what we're going to do is we've heard some information. But citizens are asking about the causes until now. And the information from now on has been incomplete. Thank you and I say again, we do not want to make this a policy, we just want comprehensive information for our fellow citizens in the Zlin region, that's all. Then, of course, we can go right in. Thank you. If these questions are not answered, please, on a specific day, a specific timetable, when they will therefore be answered to calm the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u31	The Minister of Defence has now signed up, followed by the Minister of the Interior and then the President of the Úsvit Club. Mr. Secretary, just a second. Mr Kostřica apologizes for today's meeting for personal reasons and Mr Novotný apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, by your means, Mr President, Mr Okamura. We care about these people no less to the extent that you care about these citizens. I'm sure we can agree on that. I think that we are in a classic situation, in a classic way, when the situation must undoubtedly be dealt with as efficiently and rationally as possible on the one hand, and also to investigate the causes. I would very much advocate that we proceed precisely in this Guard, because, in my humble opinion, the solution to the situation has a clear priority, with the fact that the second stage is undoubtedly also necessary, but in the second sequence. I will try to answer a number of your questions briefly, at least sloganfully, but we are paying maximum attention to it. It's an unprecedented accident, let's say, because no one initially assumed that this matter would be limited to "only" the one explosion, and that's why the series or the origin of it -- let's call it a crater -- no one was counting on it. This means that the situation does not have a precedent in its own way, and we must proceed as physically possible. I assure all present that the bomb squad of the Police of the Czech Republic is working on site, as my colleague Chovanec will certainly confirm, and that they are advancing at a rate that allows them to endanger their own lives. That even in this situation, without having to give any special instructions to the government, the assistance of the Ministry of Defence, or its military police forces, works on specific matters, but we need to be able to deploy soldiers more massively, we need a government decision on this. This is one of the reasons why the topic is included on the agenda of Monday's government meeting. We can contribute a number of different specific elements that I dare not name here, but contribute to that. However, the regime of the entire area actually has a kind of crime scene mode, and therefore, of course, it is not accessible. It's complicated because at the same time, the sorting and evaluation of the ammunition is carried out, as the individual spaces allow. I believe that it is necessary, above all, to calm the citizens, not to feed, let's say, some different conspiracy theories or rumours of a hole in the fence. It is not true, such simplified statements are extremely easy to obtain land in that public space, and they may not even be guided by some bad intention, but by lack of information. The complex was originally surrounded by a fence in its entire perimeter, but it is no longer functional today because of the security, and this is the task of the Military Technical Institute, which is a state enterprise with its legal personality established by the Ministry of Defence, VTÚ is obliged from the contract to take care of the security of those buildings, which is carried out by individual fences around each building combined with electronic equipment. It's not within the whole area. We are in charge of this - we were on the scene relatively early, we were there with initiative from our own decision, for example. Tuesday at the state holiday, we were there, as you all know, yesterday with Minister Chovanc and we are now preparing the material for the government over the weekend. That's what I think is crucial. We don't think again - rumors spread a little bit, and I understand it's spreading. But how much ammo, in which conditions this ammo is stored. We're getting high from the four private subjects that they're storing there, the arsenal that's being stored there. We will gradually investigate, as the security situation on the ground will allow, the consistency between the statements and the reality. It is not possible that standard storage has been exceeded in some areas, this will of course be subject to examination. Most likely these rockets are in the form of skeletons. I would like to point out that, as far as I am aware, any ammunition that crosses the border in one direction or another is registered on our territory, or it is not possible, or it is not legal for the company to store this or that of its will. But of course it will fall under control - I repeat once again, when this check is done, and she gradually, physically, may be, will be carried out on the spot. Perhaps I would add to what they were threatened with, to the citizens. I think that's exactly what it is in the category that we shouldn't thicken their legitimate fears. The variant of any escalation or emergence is relatively small. I'd even say even a weaker label, but I don't want to speculate. I think even the terrain is so designed that it is not in danger there, I again informed the Chief of Military Police this morning, some immediate threat, although there is some danger in the individual buildings that are nearest to it. Why they were evacuated. They were evacuated preemptively so the bomb squad could detonate the ammunition that defused them. So it wasn't because it should happen, or it was suspected of some multiplication of the explosion, but it was to allow the bomb squad to work. That's because I don't want to crowd you with details, at least for the introduction. Again, I say that the start of this event may seem too slow or hesitant to anyone, but I repeat that no one at the beginning anticipated, and it has no precedent that the state we are facing might occur, that is to say, creating a crater that makes it impossible for work to do a certain degree or restricts it. But it has to be said that the crater is shrinking, today it has a radius of only about a half-second meter, so there is a very solid hope that the work will be able to continue at a faster pace and that then it will also be decided how to deal with the ammunition. Because it is not enough to take her away so-called, she must be taken away, of course, in a certain security regime, and we cannot relieve one village to create wrinkles for another community. So we need to know exactly where, under what conditions and under what safety circumstances. It is a rather complex operation as a whole, but it is being done and now really with maximum intensity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u33	Thank you, Secretary of Defense. The Minister of the Interior will now appear, followed by President Fiala, followed by President Kováčik and President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u34	Mr President, fellow Members, I just want to add a brief addition to Mr Okamur, through you. Let us pass this debate on to the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies. That's where I think we could transfer it and discuss it. We are at the beginning of a police investigation, and I want to say with all seriousness that I am absolutely convinced that neither the Police of the Czech Republic nor the Fire Rescue Corps have missed anything. On the contrary, bomb squads are risking their lives there today and daily, and I would also like to thank them on this land. As far as the questions you have raised here are concerned, we need to find an answer to them, and probably at the end of this discussion, there must be a change of legislation. The state must take this issue back into its own hands. And if you're asking me, when did I find out that the state privatized the security area a few years ago? We simply allowed some private companies to deal with material that they should not be dealing with, at least in such a free spirit or under these conditions. I beg you, my colleague, let us end this discussion and bring it to the committees and let us focus on other topics. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u35	Yes. Chairman of the Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u36	Good morning. I just want to clarify the classification proposed by colleague Fiedler at the beginning of the changes in the agenda for today's meeting. The Dawn Club proposes to include this point as the first point in today's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u37	Yes. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u38	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, have a good day. I would like to express my appreciation for the work of police officers and firefighters who are intervening, and it seems that they will be intervening for a long time in the active volcano, which has obviously been created there and which is constantly at risk of further and further initiation of ammunition. I would really like to acknowledge the work of policemen and firefighters, so that we, too, have in the committees this matter dealt with differently, meaning that they are now in the front line. But otherwise, my friends, I am deeply appalled. It is only typically Czech pigsty, within which ammunition is used here, ammunition storage, ammunition handling, this material, which in itself is very dangerous and also dangerously exploitable, with ease, with laxity, which staggers. Is that on purpose? Or is it just some mistake? I'd say some forgetting things that need to be guarded, too. Once upon a time, and in civilized countries around the world, ammunition warehouses were among the most secure, secure objects for many reasons, for which the security, I mean now the security of the citizens of this country or the country concerned, is one of the most important, first. And we learn here that the handling of this material is entrusted to a private company. It's okay if the state checks the private company so we don't have to know there's holes in the fence, that there's basically everyone's access. And I ask myself, what did not only this government do, it is here briefly, but it is alarming, it already could - but what did the previous governments do when the military budgets were constantly decreasing so much that our army is basically just some sort of relief corps here or there? And the internal security and internal order of operation of the army and the handling of its material fell completely. [[The noise level is rising rapidly in the hall.]] There's no money for it, so the building security will be called off, and then we're talking about whether such risky places in the Czech Republic behind the back of municipalities and citizens isn't much more, if there are holes in fences and holes in legislation that force control and guard and guard this dangerous thing, there isn't so much that maybe somewhere in Beskydy, maybe somewhere in Sumava, maybe somewhere in the Highlands, there are also such objects where a shortcut on the doorbell is enough to report another ammunition warehouse fire. In this context, I would like to ask that we place this point. We, the KSČM club, will definitely support the inclusion of this point. But to keep in mind all the security aspects at the same time. We don't have to tell anyone how many ammunition warehouses we have and where we have, and direct the possible, especially when we say we have a hole in the fence there and there, so let's go get it, guide all sorts of terrorist groups there. But please, let's do this so fast. And the first must be not perhaps a meeting here, but the first must be an immediate intervention, even without appropriate legislation, only with common sense. For all other objects, which ammo and similar dangerous materials, such as chemicals, store to ensure security, to ensure the revision of wiring and similar risky matters, because also God knows how long those revisions have not been done and the warehouse itself may be the danger. To simply make preventive interventions in time, across and around so as to eliminate similar risks for the future. However, it is also a warning to all of us, especially to the public authorities, especially to the relevant obliged persons, as they say, that we should not mess with similar risks, on the contrary, that we should try to eliminate similar risks in advance. And that is neither right nor left nor government nor opposition. It's just a thing that's very necessary. I call, first, for us to include this point in order to properly discuss it, so that the relevant committees discuss this matter with their own competence, that legislation that would regulate and return order to this barn should be prepared as quickly as possible, but that the necessary preventive interventions are carried out before that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u39	President Okamura has the floor now. After that, the Minister of the Interior will speak again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the ministers obviously did not focus on my questions. We're still hearing status evaluations from now on. Yeah, okay. There's going to be a government meeting. There may be some legislation. There will be concrete steps. But once again, what we're waiting for here is a commentary from ministers, and I hope no one needs time to do that when there is a minister, where the systemic causes of this state are, the error that has occurred. We don't even know, the Czech state doesn't even know which ammo was being done, which wasn't, what condition it is in. There's some artillery ammo there, which is a big caliber, some missile missiles and all that. And we are only now learning on the basis of existing legislation or existing information, what, where and how it is. I say again and confirmed it here also by President Kováčik, what I said in the introduction that the warehouses are also elsewhere throughout the Czech Republic. That is, what we want to discuss here is, and I would like to hear the information here right now, really, what, in the opinion of the ministers, is the cause or where it is necessary to adjust the parameters of existing legislation in a legislative way so that this does not happen. I'm not gonna repeat any more questions. The previous speakers have already been mentioned here, supplemented by what we said at the beginning. Again, we ask that this point be placed at this stage as the first point in today's negotiations. And if it's not agreed as the first point, then I have a second suggestion that it be placed as the first point, if there are any fixed points to be placed immediately after them. Because, dear friends, we've heard the status analysis here many times from now on. But we're still interested. Where are the systemic errors, where are the causes for this not to happen tomorrow in another ammunition warehouse in the Czech Republic, where people live. And we haven't heard that information from either of the ministers here. I feel like we're walking around a little bit hot. I would not like this to be swept into committees at this stage. Yes, let's do that as step two. But now we need to inform citizens and the entire public in the Czech Republic today that they are not really in danger of this behind the walls of their house, and what are the real causes of all this happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u41	Mr. Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u42	Mr President, colleagues, through Mr President to President Okamur: At last night's meeting with the Police of the Czech Republic, when we returned from the debate with the citizens and the mayor of the municipalities concerned, I asked the police to evaluate all the objects used to store similar material. I can tell you that there are over 2,000 licenses in the Czech Republic. And I think there might be dozens of similar objects, I'd say by 30. The Police of the Czech Republic will immediately start to carry out increased supervision in these premises by virtue of their authority and law. That's what we can do. [[9.50 hours]] In terms of transport logistics, it is simply that bomb squads can currently release their transport only from some of the objects that are the furthest from the epicenter, and that is the logistics of the transport. [[Noise in the hall, many Members standing in front of their benches.]] Of course, this material has standards in its transport, which determine the standards, but we can now release only some of the objects that are as far away from the explosion as possible. This is about the logistics you were talking about, which was discussed by a colleague of Mišák. I think, ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to accept the solution. The time to find the culprit will follow. Let the police work. And I think we're gonna find him. From my first point of view, I think it's gonna be necessary to look for him at the grounds manager who has leases. We need to see what kind of control he performed. It is necessary to see who licensed these companies, whether it was the Mining Authority or the Ministry of Industry and Trade. This is all the subject of an investigation commissioned by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. The government will discuss this issue on Monday, and all the relevant files that may have something to say about the case are invited to the scene. Bomb squad, police work, fire department work. I would very much hate to see the citizens of the Czech Republic not being involved in this problem. He's dedicated. Unfortunately, legislation is what it is, and probably after examining this matter, let us take it as a memento, we will come up with changes in legislation so that the Czech State has more tools to recapture these things than it does now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u43	Thank you, Minister. If no one else is reporting, according to my remarks, we have only two things to vote on. Both relate to this proposed point, except they differ in time. I may still ask Mr Fiedler, who was the first plaintiff, to repeat exactly what that point should be called.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u44	I propose the title of the point: Solving the state, situation and evaluating the causes of the current situation in the village of Vlachovice and the general situation of ammunition warehouses in the Czech Republic. And I suggest you put the first point on today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u45	Yes. All I cared about was the name of the point. That is what you have just told the Chamber of Deputies. So in the first vote, we will vote on the inclusion of a new item called Mr Fiedler here, and that would be the first point in today's negotiations. I'm going to unsubscribe you all because there's an application for a check-out. I'd like a new registration, please. And then we'll vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that this new item be placed as the first item in today's Chamber of Deputies meeting. Who's against it? The vote has number 120, registered is 176, for 88, versus 76. This proposal has not been adopted. [[Noise in the hall.]] Is there an interest in controlling the vote? It's not like that. And now we would vote... We are in a vote, Mr President. [[Mr Okamura reporting]] I'll finish the vote and then, of course, I'll give you my word. Now we would vote on the inclusion of a new point, and that is to say, the fixed points this morning... I'll ask the MP and the chairman of the Fiala Club to cooperate... It can either be included as point 59 or at the very end of today's negotiations after foreign missions. [[Member of the Fiala: For point 59.]] Okay. So we'd vote on a solid assignment for this morning after point 59. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 121, registered is 177, for 87, against 80. This proposal has not been adopted. I take it we've dealt with all the voting proposals on the agenda. I have yet to register President Okamura's application, so, of course, with priority rights, I will give him the floor. Please. Sorry, sorry. I have announced Mr Novotný's apology, but I did not realize that we had two Novotn. So he's Mr. Martin Novotný. Mr Josef Novotný is present. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to thank the nearly half of the majority of Members in the Chamber of Deputies for wanting to allow citizens of the Czech Republic and citizens of the Zlin Region to learn information. I'm really shocked! It didn't go through just one vote so the citizens would learn information. Even those citizens of nearly thirty other ammunition warehouses, i.e. These are tens of thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic. What they may be in danger of. I must say that I am shocked that the government coalition has rejected - and most KDU-ČSL, YES and ČSSD Members have refused to give information to the citizens of the Czech Republic, what is really waiting for them. It didn't go through one vote. And I just wanted to say one word to the government, you know, it's a big deal. It is an absolute mega-skip that happened here in the warehouse that the Czech Republic does not have an overview of the ammunition that moves in the territory of the Czech Republic, and citizens and the Republic as such do not know what can happen and what can happen to us. It's a really big deal, a total mess. And again, I'm shocked that we refused to discuss this. And once again, from this microphone, I call on both ministers in a matter of fact. So please at least tell us the specific timetable when, at what date, you will give a complete analysis of the causes of what happened, the questions. Okay, if you don't have the courage to open this point here so that we can discuss this publicly, please at least give the exact timetable here and now please. For example: by the end of next week, we will tell you exactly to you citizens, but I think it's quite late, the analysis of the causes of the state where legislative solutions will probably be prepared, when it will continue. Because that's how to sweep it under the rug, that's a no, we're not going to discuss it, without a single timetable for citizens, when they'll know what's behind the lobsters, they're waiting behind their houses, so I really can't accept that, even though we're a small opposition party. And once again, I call for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u47	Mr. Home Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through you, the President of Okamur. But, Prime Minister, we have the courage. We drove to the same place yesterday to get to know it. You could have come. Your chairman from your side was there. Your party chairman was there, i.e. The information was publicly known. You could have had a discussion with us with the citizens on the spot. We have tried to answer the citizens all the questions we know at this time. And I say again - now is the time to accept the solution, to eliminate the risks. And there's time to find the culprits. We need to find them, name them, and change legislation. That means we're still spinning in circles. Please do not panic that the same situation can happen in other places of the Czech Republic. That's not true. Two employees of this company entered this warehouse and then after their entry there was an explosion. There's a reasonable suspicion that this has something to do with the activity of these two people in this warehouse, and the police are going to investigate the matter. At present, there is simply no way to go to that place, there is no way to investigate. But the examination will take place and the public will learn all the answers to the questions you are talking about. But we just don't know the answers today. I'm not going to fabulate or make up just to have a discussion here from my point of view on this issue because I have to make things up that I don't know. When I know, I'd be happy to answer. We were the first to publish that there were still a thousand tons of ammunition in this warehouse. That's the thing we know from the statements. But that's all we know and I won't lie to the public at all costs. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u49	Mr Novotný Josef to vote now. He's got space. Then I register two other priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to question the vote. I have a yes on high, I voted no. Well, just for the tape.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u51	Is this about the last vote, Mr. Ambassador? [[Member Novotný agrees.]] Yeah, okay. President Kalousek, after him President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to quote the sentence of Minister Chovanec so I can argue with her. He said: "Don't panic, it can happen anywhere else in the Czech Republic. That's not true. Two employees entered the warehouse and then there was an explosion." Minister, are you really sure that there are at least two employees in any other ammunition warehouse in the Czech Republic who could enter? [[Applause from Members of the TOP 09.]] And why should we assume that there is more order in other ammunition warehouses in the territory of the Czech Republic than he was here? How can you say such a sentence? I've tried to be very restrained, but after this sentence of yours, I'm extremely concerned!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u53	Mr. Chairman Stanjura and then Mr. Home Secretary. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] Sorry, Mr Holík apologizes within 11 hours for business reasons. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u54	Thank you for the floor. I think we are witnessing that the debate and the point are partly included and partly not. The ministers have, of course, taken advantage of, and they have every right to do so, their priority right. So we actually discussed it for 40 minutes to say that we don't want to discuss it. The next time some coalition MPs complain that we're slow and that they didn't discuss what they wanted. The item could have been placed at 9.20 and we could have had after the debate and we could speak to Members who had no right of priority. But that's not important. This morning, we learned from the appearance of fellow coalition club presidents that it will be on Wednesday of the meeting. I firmly hope that it will also be on Thursday, and I call on the Prime Minister to ensure the participation of ministers in the consultations. Every Member has the opportunity to ask, but ministers must be present. It's clear that we apologized for not participating in the Interior and Defence Ministers yesterday, and they announced that they would be on site themselves, so I don't want to criticize yesterday's absence because on Tuesday or Wednesday, they said they'd be there on Thursday. But participating in the interpelations last time, which means yesterday and last week, was rusty. At least half or more of the members of the government were not present. I hope you're not planning on having us here by midnight on Wednesday and ending the meeting to hide from the opposition again and not properly interpelling again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u55	Mr. Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize to Mr Kalousek for disturbing him. This is indeed a statement that there are currently two employees who cannot work in a warehouse in the Czech Republic. I'm sure they can. So I apologize to my colleague Kalousek for that. On the other hand, colleagues and colleagues, the situation we are dealing with today is the result of your governments, your austerity measures. [[Applause from members of the ČSSD.]] You have allowed security limits to be privatized in the Czech Republic. It's the result of your work!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u57	This obviously won't go unanswered. President Kalousek has the floor, and after that, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u58	First of all. After a year of ruling to say something like that, it's pretty chumpy. However, I ask Minister Chovanec to turn to the Minister of Defence in the discussion to inform him of who put the storage premises of the Czech army into rent. Who did this? Which government was it? And on what side was the Secretary of Defense?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u59	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u60	It's a tradition. When the minister doesn't know what to do, he says: it's past governments' fault. But I really want to retreat. Before that, the minister was quite logical and said that the investigation was ongoing, let's wait for the results. But he was already investigating. He already knows who did this. Past governments! Then why are you investigating, if you already know? So we could discuss it today, you could announce the result that past governments were responsible, and that's it. Don't make excuses, don't use such embarrassing arguments!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u61	Mr. Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last thing I'm going to do today, unless I'm asked a direct question to answer. I'm talking about the fact that the previous governments have allowed anyone to have a license today, that loading is much more freer. You guys said a private would just sort it out. I say that the state must address the security situation in the Czech Republic. You had a liberal approach to private companies handling these things. And whoever rented those objects or didn't rent them will be part of the investigation. We're not defending ourselves at all. And when we find out, we will come before the Chamber of Deputies, so we will certainly determine the specific culprit. If it is the director of the Institute, if it is some predecessor of Minister Stropnický, I really do not know today. In any case, I do not think that the influence of private security services should be strengthened, that private companies should deal with the disposal of ammunition. That's what these problems are! And that certainly wasn't the leftist government's fault, it was yours, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u63	Chairman Kalousek. I'm prosit the left side of the hall to stop discussing. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u64	I really believe that Minister Tvrdík was not a member of the right-wing government. [[Applause from Members of the TOP 09.]] And another one of your performances, Mr. Secretary. Either you're trying to hide or you don't know. But the license issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the handling of military material has four basic subcontractors of information, on the basis of which it then grants it in administrative proceedings. The Ministry of Industry is more of an office. Information on the basis of which the licence is provided or not provided is crucial from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from intelligence services and from the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior in the licensing process is responsible for whether or not the company is safe. And I ask you very much when you say that you will inform us of everything, that you will also say very openly in the course of the investigation: the security private agencies to guard the storage facilities in the Army of the Czech Republic let him and the minister in charge of that and that government. The companies that had this license got it then and then for that and the Home Secretary. I think everyone deserves this information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u65	Once again, Mr. Home Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u66	I'm sorry, one last time. I'm sure the House has every right to do that, and he'll get the information. I don't see why she wouldn't get them either through an interpelation or some summary report that I'm sure all of us sitting here today deserve or deserve. As for the landlord, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, it was created two and a half years ago by a merger. This certainly was not for Jaroslav Tvrdík and it was two and a half years ago when this entity was de facto created, and this is the one that is signed on the lease agreement on the landlord's side. So two and a half years ago about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-000-000.u67	I do not register other applications with priority rights, so there is probably nothing to prevent us from starting with the agenda of the meeting or the items that are on the agenda of the meeting. The first point is
