ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-001-097.u1	97. Kateřina Konečná, Karel Šidl and Václav Snopek's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (the Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended, and Act No. 239/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended /German press 118/ - third reading Mr Šidlo is already here and Mrs Zelienková is not and will be represented by Mrs Matušovská. You have received press number 118/5, which contains a motion for rejection and amendments. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Mr. Šidlo. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-001-097.u2	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as representatives of the press, to thank all those who have actively participated in the discussion of our proposal. I very much appreciate the approach of the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mrs Zelienková, in preparing a comprehensive proposal. I would also like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Finance for a very helpful approach, who have taken a very substantive approach to discussing our proposal for amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll. My thanks also belong to all colleagues who participated in the discussion of the proposed amendment of the law in the committees of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I would also like to use this speech to respond to questions that there was no time left and that there was no room for them to be answered at second reading. One important question that was raised during the second reading was which Ministry discussed a comprehensive amendment which went into the resolution of the two committees, both economic and budgetary. It was the Ministry of the Interior, which agreed with this amendment in addition to Section 26b, and the Ministry of Transport, which attached its consent to the consent of the Ministry of Finance, and then I have to say, unfortunately, an unpleasant thing, because we received this opinion from the Ministry of Transport just before the second reading, so it was not possible to respond by getting a written opinion directly into your hands. The third Ministry was the Ministry of Finance itself, which was very intensively concerned as the original draft amendment to Act No. 168/1999 Coll., as well as a comprehensive amendment and, in essence, gave a positive opinion on this amendment, which was then translated into a resolution which I have already mentioned. Let me draw attention to one thing, which I consider to be very important, in the context of the possible adoption of both the resolution of the committees and the approval of the overall amendment to the law. It is the impact of this amendment on common practice in the Czech Republic. The Czech office of insurers from the guarantee fund in the event of the adoption of this law pays compensation for the damage to the injured person for the uninsured. He will recover this from the uninsured based on legal regression with more than 90% success rate back to the fund. The rest, if any really arises in a real situation, will be supplemented by the contribution of its members, which are individual insurance companies, which are legally obliged to take this into the fund each year. Thus, the system will not be highly surplus, as it currently is, but will not be loss-making either. He'll find himself in a steady state about 15 years ago. There will be no contribution which would serve as a further penalty to the uninsured, as another way of drawing funds out of the uninsured pockets, which would serve only to generate profits to stakeholders, but is completely unnecessary in terms of the functioning of the entire insurance system. In addition, a fine of CZK 5 000 and CZK 40,000 will be awarded to the uninsured and most often to the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. This remains the income of the municipality which bears the costs in its recovery and is not needed in the guarantee fund. The uninsured person will be punished appropriately once more than he was before receiving the contribution, because the scope of the fine, i.e. repressive sanctions, has been increased. That will correct his illegal behavior sufficiently. In administrative proceedings, the uninsured vehicle will also be permanently removed from the road vehicle register. At the same time, I must point out that from 1. 1. 2015 is no longer an amendment to Act No. 56/2001 Coll. a semi-transfer institute that generated most of the uninsured vehicles and their failure to complete within the set deadlines. I should mention one more thing that was said in the second reading, but I also consider it very important. The adoption of this amendment does not have to and should not generate an increase in legal insurance for individual insurance clients. It's not necessary. Only normal annual inflation would be reflected in increased premiums. Finally, allow me to ask you to support and approve the resolution of the Economic or Budget Committee and subsequently to approve the draft amendment to Act No. 168/1999 Coll. as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-001-097.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I would also like to point out that, for personal reasons, Mr Velebný apologizes for the House's meeting today. I'm going to ask who's still reporting for the debate. Mr. MP and Chairman of the ODS Club? So if the rapporteur wants to use it. You both have priority rights, but the chairman of the club is a gentleman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-001-097.u4	Thank you. Mr President, dear government, fellow Members, allow me to present my report on the news and to thank the speaker for his opening words. I would like to hold a House to support the approval of this amendment to the bill and a comprehensive amendment that seeks to address the problem raised by the petitioners, and this is an inappropriate meeting of the Czech insurer's law enforcement office on the part of creditors for compulsory liability. All arguments were made here on the House floor. From my point of view, this comprehensive amendment was drawn up on the basis of all the information available, with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance. However, we are aware that the issue of compulsory liability is far more complex and therefore this cannot be addressed by a parliamentary initiative. That is why I would like to call on the Ministry of Finance from this point of view to launch this situation quickly, so that there is no event. Honest payers could pay off the bad guys. We see this proposal as step one. We submit it with the knowledge that further action is needed. This is already discussed by the petitioner of the comprehensive amendment, Mrs Zelienková, to the Association of Insurance Companies, and she promises to continue to oversee the settlement of the situation. [[Noise in the hall.]] [[9.50 hours]] We thank all our colleagues for the debate and the views they have brought to the House, and I will be glad if they continue to share their knowledge with me as rapporteur or colleague Zelienková or the petitioners and continue to work on the legislation with the Ministry of Finance and with the other bodies concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-001-097.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-001-097.u6	Thank you for the floor. I filed a motion to dismiss, so I'm not joining the plea for support of the law. I would like to respond to the rapporteur's speech. I certainly agree with the final part in particular that the institute of semi-transfers, which created or could create the problems, that someone thought he didn't have the car anymore, but according to the register he had it and it was being enforced. I agree with that. But that has nothing to do with this novel. I have one more question. We have the Ministry of Finance's position in writing with the signature, with the name of the person who wrote it, and his position at the Ministry of Finance, okay? [[He's turning to a rapporteur who agrees.]] Excellent. So if you could tell us who signed it. I must therefore appreciate the basic position of the Ministry of Transport, which he will say - and it is his agenda - we agree with this if the finances agree. I don't understand that very well. So be it. I agree that we discussed the arguments here at first and second reading. I don't want to repeat them completely. However - then I will have one procedural proposal - according to the Association of Insurance Companies, there is a legislative doubt as to whether the transitional provisions comply with our legal order. If I have good information, then the author, the petitioner of the comprehensive amendment, has promised to let Parliament's legislation assess it, so as to be perfectly clear. I'm afraid I don't see the lady here. I think she's excused. I don't know if that position exists or in what form. If there is, what does that statement actually tell us? I insist that if we accept this amendment of the law, it is in favour of black passengers and non-payers and in favour of honest ones. We have argued that both the petitioner and the rapporteur have a different opinion. I have to say for myself that, in my opinion, they're gonna make money off of that punk and the black passengers, and eventually they're gonna pay off the honest ones who do their duty. But I don't want to repeat the debate. That is why I have a procedural proposal if we could not interrupt the third reading session by next Friday with that, if the position already exists, so that we can get it. If it is not that we would ask - perhaps the rapporteur or the representatives of the petitioners - the Parliamentary Institute or the House legislation to check the concern that the transitional provisions are contrary to the legislation in force. I don't know, it's not even my main objection that I'm applying here, it's about something else. At the same time, I mean, this is where we've been debating for weeks. The Scandinavian model, which I believe is better and fairer than mine, especially to those who pay legal insurance. And I'd like to hear it here, but unfortunately, the finance minister isn't here today, he's excused, so don't take it as an attack, because every time we mention him, his club is right now, why are we attacking him? I'd like to hear if this is being worked on, because I have information that yes and that another amendment will be processed shortly. I was talking about it yesterday. We approve of the novel and say at the same time - we are already working on another novel. It seems unreasonable to me. That's why I think it's better to reject the proposal. The main problem will go away from January 1st, we are in complete agreement with the translator. Moreover, the proceedings that run until today will run under this existing law, which will not change by adopting this amendment, that would be retroactivity. So my procedural proposal, which I would ask to be put to the vote, is to interrupt the item by next Friday, while at the same time asking the Chamber of Deputies to check whether the transitional provisions are in accordance with the Czech law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-001-097.u7	I see it as a procedural proposal, Mr President. [[Member Stanjura agrees.]] So in that case, I will not allow a debate and we will vote on it. I'm not even going to allow it to be factual because it can't be done at this stage. [[To Mr Schwarz, who is looking for a way out.]] Not even a priority right. The procedural proposal shall be put to the vote without debate. So I'll call all my colleagues. Yes, I'll sign you all out, please, for a new registration. President Stanjura proposes that we interrupt this item by Friday until 31st, if I am not mistaken, with the fact that if this proposal is passed, I do not see any reason to impose anything else on the Parliamentary Institute. Anyway, I'm gonna ask, one way or another, for the worst part, it's gonna be ex post, it's gonna be legislation, it's gonna be the institute to do it. So if there are already all those who want to vote, we are voting on the suspension until next Friday. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 53, registered is 153, for is 104, versus 33. This proposal was adopted. And then I'll take the appropriate position. We have dealt partly with this point because it has been interrupted, and we will continue with paragraph 61. I'm just going to draw your attention to further developments. Point 6 and point 7 cannot be discussed because there are no submitters. Point 6 - Senators apologized, and paragraph 7, i.e. the capital city of Prague - despite all the efforts the House Secretariat failed to arrange a representative of the capital city of Prague to attend the meeting. So, unfortunately, neither point 6 nor point 7 can be discussed, and we will then proceed with paragraph 8. But now we're at the point
