ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-006-042.u1	42. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Beijing Treaty on the Protection of Artistic Performances in Audiovision signed in Geneva on 29 April 2013 /German press 74/ - First reading I would ask the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman to take the floor and present this press to us. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-006-042.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward a proposal by which the Government is submitting to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the ratification of the Beijing Treaty on the Protection of Artistic Performances in Audiovision. This international treaty was adopted in June 2012 at a diplomatic conference in Beijing convened by the World Intellectual Property Organisation. At this meeting, 156 Member States confirmed the joint decision in a legally binding manner to ensure international protection of the rights of performers in the field of audiovision. The adoption of the Beijing Treaty represents an important milestone in bridge the gap in the international system of intellectual property rights. The protection of the rights of performers with regard to their artistic performances recorded in the sound recordings, i.e. especially in the film, was not included in the World Intellectual Property Organisation's Treaty on performances of performers and on sound records adopted in 1996 compared to the original intentions and efforts. It took another 16 years to reach agreement between States with different legislation and to successfully complete the negotiation of this Treaty. The contract provides adequate protection of property rights, especially for actors performing in films. Potentially, they and other performers will also be able to participate internationally with producers, i.e. in particular with film producers, income generated from the use of audiovisual works containing their artistic performance. They will also guarantee their personal rights and provide an international legal framework for protecting them in a digital environment. The contract is fully in accordance with our legal order, which means, above all, the applicable copyright law and international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. The obligations entered into by the contract in the event of ratification do not require any amendment or addition of our valid copyright. By its resolution of 24 October 2012, number 785 the Czech Government agreed to negotiate this presidential treaty and recommended that the President of the Republic ratify the contract after signing it and expressing its consent by Parliament of the Czech Republic. At the same time, she commissioned the Prime Minister to submit the contract after its signature to the Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate for the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic with its ratification. Subsequently, under the authority of the President of the Republic of the Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Czech Republic to the United Nations in Geneva, Ms Kateřina Sekvencová signed the Beijing Treaty subject to ratification in Geneva on 29 April 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, as a gesture of the international treaty in question, I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to give its consent to the ratification of the Beijing Treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-006-042.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Jana Fischerová to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-006-042.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will follow the words of the Minister of Culture very briefly because he took the wind from my sails. I had a similar speech prepared. I will add that the committee responsible in the Senate is currently discussing this international treaty and has also recommended further discussions in the Senate plenary. And maybe one more thing. 72 existing states have already signed this international treaty in November last year, and I, as rapporteur, also recommend to refer this House press 74 to the second reading and commandment of the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-006-042.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate that I have no application for, so I am also ending it. So we will consider the draft of the commandment. I have proposed by my decision to order this press to the Foreign Committee, the rapporteur in agreement with me as well. I'll ask if there's another suggestion on the commandment. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 49, registered 166, for 146, versus 1. However, this proposal was adopted. They have ordered this proposal to the Foreign Committee, and I am ending the discussion of this point. Opening point 43, which is
