ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-005-050.u1	50. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the 1997 Protocol to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and to the ratification of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, adopted by the International Maritime Organisation on 2 November 1973 (the Parliamentary Press 168/ - first reading) I will also ask Mr Rostislav Vyzula, who is rapporteur for first reading, to take the position at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask the Minister for the opening vote. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-005-050.u2	Thank you. Very extensive material. So I would like to introduce the Chamber of Deputies to the Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented to agree to the 1997 Protocol to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and to agree to ratify the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. The International Convention with the designation MARPOL is the most important international treaty dealing with the issue of marine pollution from ships. It was adopted at an international conference on marine pollution on November 2, 1973. Its technical annexes lay down technical requirements for the construction of maritime ships and their equipment in such a way as to minimise to a maximum the risk of leakage of pollutants into the environment. On 26 September 1997, the Contracting Parties adopted the Amending Protocol to the MARPOL Convention. Its purpose is to lay down rules for the prevention and prevention of air pollution from ships. In terms of the protection of the marine environment and the fulfilment of the obligations of the Czech Republic arising from its membership of the European Union, it is desirable that the Czech Republic accede to the 1997 Protocol. With the Protocol, we also attach to ratification the original text of the MARPOL Convention. Directive 2005/35/EC on ship-source pollution and the introduction of sanctions, including criminal penalties, for infringements in the field of pollution, as amended by Directive 2009/123/EC, are closely linked to the MARPOL Convention. It should be noted that the European Commission, within the framework of the so-called the pilot project expressed doubts about the proper transposition of this Directive into the Czech legal order. The Czech Republic would clearly refute these doubts by ratifying the MARPOL Convention. Given that the European Commission indicated that if the Czech Republic completed the ratification process by the end of June 2014, the initiation of infringement proceedings would be avoided. We would therefore like to propose a reduction in the deadline for the discussion of the proposal in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies to 30 days. The aim of the discussion of the material as soon as possible is to achieve a reduction in the risk of initiating the procedure in question by the European Commission. The 1997 Protocol is in line with the constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union and the obligations arising from international law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-005-050.u3	I thank the Minister of Transport and ask the rapporteur Rostislav Vyzula to present a news report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-005-050.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, colleagues, basically everything has been said by the Minister, but I would just like to add: At first glance, it might seem that the issue in question does not concern the Czech Republic. No naval merchant ship currently uses the possibility of registration under the flag of the Czech Republic. But it is not possible that things will be different in the future. Moreover, the Convention does not apply only to maritime merchant ships but also to sea yachts. With the expansion of tourist, mainly recreational sea cruises, the opportunity for interested parties to register their vessels in the maritime register of the Czech Republic is quite much exploited. Marine yachts also fall under the scope of the Convention, since there is also a need to ensure the supervision and enforcement of environmental protection, particularly in the area of the correct treatment of waste and waste water. The numbers of such vessels are not insignificant in the Czech Republic. They're reaching hundreds of them. As rapporteur, I recommend to the House to approve this House's press and commandments to the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-005-050.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the rapporteur's report and open a general debate in which I have no written application and ask who is reporting from the point of view. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. But I have you because the conditions in the House have changed, and I will sign everyone off and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of people is settled, we will decide on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. In the 36-order vote I started, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, serial number 36 of 127 present for 127, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister has exhausted his points. So we're going to look at other points of the other submitters. [[9.50 hours]] Before we proceed with point six, I'll read the apology received. From today's meeting, Mr Stanislav Huml apologizes further from 14:00 and from 17:00, Mr Josef Nekl. Both for personal reasons. Mr Stanislav Grospič also apologizes for the reasons of work from 12 pm and from 10 to 12 pm Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes for today's meeting. Apologies were also received for Mr Pavel's work, sorry Radek Lojda. So these are all the apologies that have been delivered to me, and we will continue. The next item is:
