ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u1	23. Members of Petr Adam, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Marek Černoch, Karel Fiedler, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Jaroslav Holík, David Kádner, Martin Lank, Karel Pražák, Milan Šarapatka and Jiří Štětina for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, as amended and Act No. 250/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, as amended /German press 119/ - First reading We received the Government's position as House Press 119/1. I prosit that Mr Radim Fiala present the proposal for the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, one of the main points of our electoral programme was the promise to promote the personal responsibility of public officials for the decisions they make. For example, it is not possible for a politician to cause damage to tens, hundreds of millions, or even billions of crowns by his conscious actions of the state and not personally responsible for such conduct. [[It's busy in the hall.]] We consider the counterarguments of opponents of our proposal hypocritical. If our proposal merely repeated what is already in the law, as some say, it would not be possible for so many people with butter on their heads to escape justice. No, there is a loophole in our legal order, and we are losing the resources we have chosen from citizens every year to help save our republic from a substantial part of its debts and our seniors from the poverty line. We could invest in health care, infrastructure, etc. The currently mentioned case of valuation of OKD's assets and its sales could never have happened if there had been a real and enforceable responsibility of politicians and civil servants for their decision-making. It will be interesting to see how the other MPs will stand up to our amendment. For it is good to remember today how flamingly political party candidates spoke about these matters at the time of the election campaign.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the gallery is followed by young people who are forced by their lecturers at school to be quiet and pay attention if their lecturers are giving lectures. I ask that we set a good example for them and also pay attention to Mr Fial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u4	Thank you, thank you, Mr President. I will not forgive myself for commenting that it is quite obvious and obvious that the responsibility of my colleagues' politicians does not matter at all. That's all I wanted to say about the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u5	Thank you. I didn't mean to cut your speech short. I thank Mr Fial. I beg him to sit at the plaintiff's table. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Klaška. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u6	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, let me say something about this proposal. Let me draw your attention to the government's disapproval, it's House Press 119/1. Let me give you a little bit of a quote or a little bit of a reminder of some passages. The proposed legislation is considered to be unnecessary and duplicate, since the current legislation on the management of the State's property and the management of the assets of the local authorities contains an adjustment for the care of the property, in particular in Sections 14 to 47 of Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, as amended, also in Section 38 of the Act on Municipalities, in Section 17 of the Act on Regionalities, in Section 35 of the Act on the Capital City of Prague. Furthermore, let me remind you that by adopting the proposed legislation, there would only be an adjustment to the rules for a part of state organisations, but this would not apply to state organisations which are excluded from the scope of the Act on Property of the Czech Republic and its representation in legal relations. The introduction of some terms would create considerable application and interpretation difficulties, such as the proposed concept of "management', which the Government considers to be very unclear, while Law No. 2019/2000 Sb., as amended, uses the term "manager of organization" or "manager of staff." The draft law also shows shortcomings in the legislative technical nature and there are other legislative technical and written errors in the text of the draft law. I believe, therefore, that this is once again a well-intentioned proposal which, however, shows these errors - duplication, ambiguities, and that part of state organisations would fall out of these rules. I therefore recall the government's disagreement and suggest rejecting this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur, I note his motion for rejection, which I ask to be put forward in his opinion or in the debate. I am opening a general debate, in which Mr Václav Votava first came forward. [[This is Mr Okamura speaking.]] Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador Okamura wants to exercise his priority right? He doesn't want to. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u8	Okay, thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on this proposal. I may extend it to something that seems to be unrelated, but still has something to do with it. I think that the government's position and comments are absolutely relevant. I don't want to look like I'm rejecting everything Dawn's serving. I have said here many times that I may also understand the meaning of their laws, their proposals, but how this proposal is always made, it is also expressed in the Government's opinion, a number of legislative errors, a number of conceptual uncertainties, so basically these are also important things. Of course, what my colleagues are proposing here is also dealt with by some legislation, so today it is not excluded that people who are uneconomically dealing with property are affected, sometimes it can really be in criminal terms, so it is not entirely true that there is a vacuum. So much for the government's position, which I agree with. I think there's a mess in the state's property records. It's a big mess. It is also the task of the current government representation to remedy this condition, which it inherited from past governments. I will give you one such example: There has been a talk about the dislocation of the Supreme Audit Office during the last parliamentary term. A suitable building was sought because the Supreme Audit Office, as you know, is renting. Back then, under the former president of the SAO, that was rent when I used that word, incredibly high. The current SAO president, Mr Kal, has managed to radically reduce the rent, but it does not solve it and it has never resolved that the SAO should be in a non-commercial building. He should be in his own. That's why there was always a suitable building to move the SAO to. The head of the government dislocation committee was invited to the meeting, knew nothing at all. He didn't know what property was free, what buildings were free, just a terrible condition. For expensive money, the CRAB system was implemented. It's not a delicacy for gourmets, but it's a central register of administration buildings. It was also ordered by a government resolution to individual ministries and their organisations that this CRAB should also be fulfilled in order to fulfil its value at all, that is, the purpose for which it was introduced. However, to date, the CRAB is not fulfilled, which means that there is no overview at all, or there is a minimum overview of what buildings can be used. I have registered that the Ministry of Finance is currently making arrangements so that the central register is really filled and that the state overview of what the premises are, what the buildings have, what the buildings look like, and what they were in this register. It must be taken into account that if the buildings were used effectively or if they were disposed of, because if they had unnecessary property, what to do with it, it would certainly represent considerable funds and maybe even 50 percent of the rent would be saved, because a number of institutions are, of course, back in commercial buildings or in rental buildings, so why couldn't they be in their own, state. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to point this out, and I believe that the current government guarantee will put this thing together will make this thing right. It is a very important matter for the state to have an overview of the property that is necessary, and this property could be disposed of in some way or transferred to it by institutions that have a requirement and can pass from those objects where they are rented. So much for my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u9	I thank Mr Votav. Mr Laudát, Mr Okamura, with priority right, came forward with a factual comment. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen and the absent government, I don't know if there's one minister who could sit here. I take it as a contempt for the House, and now I don't know if we've approved or approved that there's an adjournment to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u11	I apologize, I will now have to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, unless one of the ministers comes, interrupt the House's meeting in the presence of one of the members of the government. [[You can hear the voices suggesting you wait five minutes.]] I'm interrupting the meeting until 12.25 hours. If no member of the government shows up, then we'll make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u12	Thank you for being visited by two members of the government even, not just one. Three even, excellent. We're good to go. I ask Mr Laudát to make progress in his speech with his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u13	Thank you. I'm sorry that the innocents just took the fall, and the three I respect the most, almost the most if I did the waiting list in that government. I'd rather see that strong-Onassis Onassis sitting here listening. First of all. And second of all, I just wanted a technicality with my foreman. He says that what they inherited from the previous government, I don't know if they marched in on the government of Miloš Zeman, Špidla, Gross and Paroubek some new land or new forests, water, meadows, slopes or what, that suddenly something landed here. And new factories. But I understand that even you guys didn't make it right when you had the need to smash and hand out mining mines, accompanying property for free, etc. So I'd beg for this. I know that some steps have been taken, and as far as I know, Minister Babiš fired a very honored director of administration and representation of the state in property matters, whom I think you've recognised here, those who were here in the previous period. That's where he started. And I'll be very curious to see how the property is going to be fixed. But I don't think I know, I don't know, I'm not an expert on this issue, but I don't think that in 2006, something was taken over from you that would already exist, and then it was destroyed. So I think someone here has a very short memory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u14	I thank Mr Laudát for his point of view. Another priority right is Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the key to the crisis of public confidence in democracy, politics and the state is the responsibility of politicians. Of course, the fact that top politicians have managed thousands of billions here with impunity in the last 20 years frustrates all citizens and destroys their confidence in the current political system. We see the solution in one thing: make the most responsible for the values entrusted. Our proposed law clearly provides for a proper care obligation for all representatives of the State. It is a very clear and transparent order for all those who deal with public property to manage with maximum efficiency. The point is that it is possible to fulfil, in an inefficient manner, the nature of the offence of breach of obligations in the management of foreign property. The proposed legislation is considered unnecessary and duplicate by the government, as the current legislation on the management of state property and the management of the property of local authorities already contains and contains the regulation on the care of property, in particular in Sections 14 and 47 of Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic, and in other laws, e.g. about municipalities, regions, etc. But what do these paragraphs say, which the government states in its negative opinion? Paragraph 14 states that the property must be used efficiently and economically. However, this obligation is laid down for the relevant organisational component, not for individuals. § 47 obliges the natural persons concerned to carry out their activities with professional care and to follow this law and other legislation. Individuals have direct professional care, but care to manage property economically do not, virtually. they are only required under the organisation's obligation. There is therefore no direct individual responsibility. The fact that the law is inoperable is easy to prove. So far, no minister or other top politician has faced prosecution for breach of the obligation to manage foreign property because of some inexpensiveness. The magic of this law is that it should be fulfilled, by which I mean the magic of our law, is that - in order to be fulfilled by the deed, the person must, in addition to the damage proven, violate the legal obligation. Here we are discussing whether the Minister of Finance, e.g. Mr Sobotka, who proposes privatisation of the state interest in OKD when he was Minister of Finance, in cooperation with his friends from Karbon Invest, is or is not criminally responsible. As we know, in Mrs Parkanová's case, Minister Kalousek pulled a billion-dollar report from the Institute of State and Law saying that the Minister had no legal obligation to determine how many CASA aircraft normally cost. Therefore, she did not have to know whether she was buying them overpriced for the military, so she could not be prosecuted for the offence of breach of the obligation to manage foreign property, since according to the current interpretation of the law she did not violate the imposed or contracted important obligation in the custody or management of foreign property. Lawyers can argue with this, and rightly so, the fact remains that practice is that those who do not have a legal obligation to manage property with care of a proper economy are simply not prosecuted for mismanagement. In the same spirit as the case of the purchase of CASA aircraft, there is now even worse cause, namely the case of Prime Minister Sobotka. He obviously cooperated and co-sponsored the damage that is in the order of tens of billions. Whoever watched the program Reporters of the Czech Republic could not overlook the mapled to heaven by the villain, when representatives of the state sold state property below price, and the current statement that only small fish would be affected. However, those whose will these small fish did, those who should be responsible for such a scandalous privatisation, i.e. first of all, the finance minister, who proposed and co-ordinated the sale, will probably avoid responsibility. [[12.30 hours]] If the proposed law were to be applied by us, that is to say, the obligation to manage the assets entrusted with the care of a proper economy, for ministers and other responsible representatives of the state, then the persons responsible for privatisation of the OKD would most likely now be sitting in a more carefully guarded building than the current government is sitting for a long time. The tenants of 43,000 OKD flats today would not be knocked out of fear that Bakala would dump them on the street, because the state would have a few billion more in the register, so they would have to give generous help to the Ostrava region and its unemployed. On the contrary, mayors or statutory bodies of firms already have a duty to manage the care of a proper economic operator, by law, and according to this section, many mayors and managers of companies are being prosecuted and tried every year for mismanagement. However, we also know that the state lost thousands of billions in thousands of cases, and none of the top politicians at national level were prosecuted for violating the obligation to manage foreign property. So when I sum up, at least in the future, the question of liability is always clear, we propose a simple principle that every representative of the state, whether the organizational component, its management, its employees, or the persons entrusted with them, should be obliged to manage the assets entrusted with the care of a proper economy. This avoids the use of words and wrinkles as to whether he or she is responsible. We in Dawn make it clear that anyone who decides on public property must bear responsibility, not just for whether or not this public competition or expenditure will correspond to any formal rules. The crucial point is that every expenditure must also be effective and justified. The government had other technical comments about the law, e.g. that the regulation should not apply to state organisations which are excluded from the scope of the Act on Property of the Czech Republic and its representation in legal relations. It goes for example. about the contributions and other organisations. Well, that may not be a relevant argument, if we agree in the House to include these organizations there, then we can explicitly connect them there at the next reading. Other complaints are also completely formal, and there is no point in commenting on them from my point of view. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that most of you here want our state to work better, and we certainly all want our politicians to be trusted by citizens. When a citizen insults a car mirror on the street, he has to pay for it. When an official or worker causes damage, he is responsible for it and must replace it, often on that night. I think the best move to gain confidence is to set up a direct responsibility for all those who manage public property so that citizens believe that we are really serious about the changes to better management. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u16	Thank you, Mr Okamur. With another proper application, Mr Komárek is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, I agree, of course, that the state is to manage properly, and I agree that it is not yet doing well. That's one of the reasons why most members of the YES, sitting here, have even entered the policy. At the same time, however, I think that the bill that is proposed is really redundant. Why? We all know that one of our esteemed colleagues is being prosecuted by the Opencard Police, although most of us do not think this prosecution has a real basis. There is no greater evidence of the possibility of law enforcement authorities prosecuting high municipal or state officials for what they consider to be inefficientness or poor or unclean management of public property. We have other examples. We know politicians who may be publicly repentant and whose inhospitability or something more is believed by the overwhelming majority of the public. On the contrary, police are not able to catch up on these for quite incomprehensible reasons. So the problem is not - and I fully agree with Mr Okamura - that the public does not trust politicians, and I hope that this will improve, but the problem is not that they have no responsibility, that they cannot be prosecuted. The problem is that those who are really suspicious are often not prosecuted, or, on the contrary, are prosecuted by those who, according to the laws of common sense, should not be prosecuted. So the problem is not in the law this time, not all the problems are in the law, but in how the law is implemented. paradoxically, through Mr President, I could ask Mr Okamura whether all political safeguards, including ours, should be prosecuted under that law, for not yet ensuring the proper functioning of police and justice. On the other hand, we all agree that they are independent bodies, and we have no say in this justice. So the problem is not that we need another law on the responsibility of politicians. The problem is that justice and other institutions, so-called. law enforcement authorities, they need reform, they need to be much sharper, much clearer and trustworthy for people. I think and believe, and that is another reason why many of us have entered into politics, that it is possible that these institutions can be reformed, but a new law that adds something that is already in law will not help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u18	I thank Mr Komárek. With a factual remark, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would only briefly respond to Mr Komárek's colleague. Well, he's the problem with the fact that the law that really determines the duty of care for a proper economy for mayors or executives today, so he doesn't really apply to those national policies. This means that the police and the prosecutors must act in the limits of existing laws, and if the law is vague, that is precisely why it is not happening, and of course at the next stage it is necessary for the police and the state prosecutor etc. This can be ended, for example, in courts, which, of course, I am also looking at to a certain extent critically. But that's why the care of a proper caregiver basically makes it quite clear that you can't basically buy a chair that isn't needed when you need four, so you can't buy a fifth. Basically, you can't make excuses like, "Today the tender went well, so we're taking our hands off it," but if it was necessary at all, that's not actually a good thing anymore. It's just vague. Therefore, the argument that something is duplicated given that no one has been convicted here in 20 years, at national level, the minister has not been convicted of wasting public funds, so it does not work. Obviously, it's not the organs that are supposed to be saving it, how to grab it. That's why we're proposing it. That's why I'm asking for your support. Let's let it go to second reading, at least the members of the YES who are new here, at least let's raise our voice, even if we don't get away with it, and let's keep talking about it. After all, you, honourable Members YES, have entered politics on the basis of the same principles as we have. So one thing is what the government has determined, the other thing is that we want public funds to stop being wasted. And look at the OKD case today. Guys, if you don't raise your voice for this, you're actually in agreement with that, or with the Casa aircraft. It can't be done like this. Thank you, and I'm begging you again for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u20	Thank you, honourable Member. With another proper application, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to respond here in the debate on this point, and I would first start by replying also by your means, Mr President, to Mr Komárek. Mr. Colleague, you mentioned the operation of the police and these institutions. We're talking about liability for property management, not the police. That's a pretty big difference. I would also like to mention here the case, which is no longer mentioned so much, although still current, and our chairman Tomio Okamura here mentioned the banal thing as an example of buying unnecessary chairs, which is a petty item, but I know a beautiful example and you all know it too, the purchase of unnecessary fighters L-159, which our government ordered, and she purchased 72 pieces for 50 billion crowns! We're not talking about any change here. And according to the January figures of this year, 36 of these fighters are useless! That means half. By simple merchant numbers of CZK 25 billion flew through the chimney, and if we look after it, I will remind you how it was with the unit price for one fighter L-159, so when the contract was concluded, it was expected to cost 250 million for a piece without VAT, I add, and those machines were eventually purchased for 700 million for one plane! Also count other millions, or rather billions, which this state has thrown out for nothing. Let us also add a quarter of a billion crowns for storing those non-flying machines. That's more money. So this is where more money flies out the chimney. I would also like, through Mr President, to respond to Mr Votava's contribution. Mr. Ambassador, you have argued some arguments about duplication here. But in your speech, too often, there was a condition if. We both know how this works with the authorization of your speech. So when you get the screen recording for authorization, count the number of times you've used a conditioner in your speech if you did. Yes, if it worked for us. But it's not working for us. That's a pretty substantial difference, and that's why Dawn is proposing this legal adjustment. So I also call on you to support this law, especially the YES parliamentary club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u22	I thank Mr Fiedler. With a factual remark, Mr Martin Komárek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u23	I understand my Dawn colleagues in a matter of fact. There are a number of other cases listed here, and there is a call from the people we heard in the campaign, such a wronged one: why nobody - in the words of the song - fits, no one hangs up. I can see it, too. But the truth is, even senior state officials are prosecuted in corruption cases. The truth is, the police and the courts have that possibility. We've got non-flying aircraft, helicopters that used to drop engines, parachutes that people used to fall out of. Indeed, there is much that politicians have bought wrong. But the only way to make this right for the next time is for the House to properly control the government, so that ministers properly control their officials, so that the Supreme Audit Office can properly control everything, which I think we will release this amendment in full force. The police can prosecute virtually anyone today if they find out that they deliberately did something wrong. If we should want the police to prosecute anyone who did something unintentionally wrong, we would find ourselves in a completely different state from what we want, at least in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u24	I thank Mr Komárek. With another factual remark, Mr Václav Votava. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u25	Thank you for the floor. For Mr Fiedler, by your means, Mr President. Yes, I said if a few times, if the central register worked, if the records were okay. I also said yes that the current government guarantee, the Treasury Department, is already taking these steps so that I don't have to say it anymore. So if you listened well, my colleague, through the President, you certainly couldn't have missed it. Otherwise, I would also like to make a comment on Mr Okamur. Of course, he always says populistly here, "You who don't support it, so you support the scoundrels! Mr President, that is certainly not true. But you always do. I'm bohužel so. And I've heard it before. Whoever doesn't come with us is against us. Do me a favor, don't use it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u26	With another factual remark, Mr Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u27	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, while we're talking about the word "populists," I think you've made a populist promise to the voters that you'll solve church restitution, knowing you can't solve them, so, folks, I'm waiting for you to solve them! You have lured tens of thousands of voters to your populist promise that you cannot carry out, and when, by the way, a vote has been voted on - I see a colleague, Mr Kováčik, here - about a referendum against church restitution, suddenly no one has voted. Next thing you know, you've created a committee that's supposed to deal with it. I'll wait for you to fulfill your populist promise! So that you make a happy state here with dignified pensions, here in populist terms you promise twenty years and the result is average pensions of over 10,000 crowns and people are not well at all! The populist policy you're luring lying voters to here is where you've been showing off for 20 years, ČSSD, my colleague! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u28	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Furthermore, the appellant shall apply with due application and priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u29	Thank you for the floor. If no one wants to go to that point anymore, I'd say something else. Maybe I'll repeat some of the things that have already fallen here today, but I think it's important. I'll go back to the duplicate. Yes, I can agree with that. Duplicity exists, however, judicatures and other statements that are from the court are very controversial and there are non-discriminatory and ambiguous interpretations in these matters. That is why we are trying to include it in this law in Section 14 so that this matter is enforceable by judgment, because it is not to this day. And I'm going to follow up on my colleague Votava, who was standing here saying, "There's no way they're affected by people." No people were affected. It's just unenforceable or very hard to enforce. If we have professional care, professional care is not a proper economy. That means it's very controversial. I don't want to quote different examples here, but you'd be surprised what the big difference is. In addition, Mr Votava said that he had met with an official in charge of the property and that he knew absolutely nothing about the property. How, then, can this official treat the state's property with care of a proper economy? How can we even ask him to do that? [[A round of applause from the Dawn movement.]] So let's do something to make sure this clerk gets over his head or isn't there. I think we just have to make some changes. One last thing from the last performance of my colleague Votava - and I like him. Populism. Sure. Come here, any of you, and tell me how we're gonna do it in populist ways. How do we ensure that the property of the state is managed economically with proper care and that it is not stolen? How are we going to do this differently than the law we're proposing? I also noted a few other things that my colleague Komárek said. Of course, I can agree with some of them. But I also join my colleague Fiedler, who commented on the thing that you, my colleague through the President, have said - what the police and the judiciary have said that we are not fully functioning. I agree. Police and justice are not property in the true sense of the word as we speak of it. And I think the economy in this law is completely different. Another thing he said, through the President, that everyone should check on everyone so that the government controls ministers, ministers to control officials. That's what 20 years have been like. This is what we've been trying to do for 20 years. And the result is catastrophic in my opinion. So another thing, another clue to the fact that we need to initiate changes. And this law is just the change we need. So that would be from my side and from the rapporteur's post probably everything to this bill. I also ask you all to support this, so that we can play it through the first reading, and we can discuss it in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u30	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. With another proper application, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I believe that this bill cannot help to improve the management of the state's property right now. And I am so glad that the most striking argument has been made here against the adoption of this bill, and that is its duplication. I am glad that the whole scope of the sections, which governs the individual responsibility of politicians, whether at that level national, and at that level municipal, has been quoted here. From this point of view, the legislation on liability for the management of public property here is complex. It's specific, complex. There is therefore no need to adopt duplicate legislation. I dare say, it is also against legislative customs and customs. Therefore, it cannot be expected that this proposal would bring some new quality, and I believe that, on the contrary, it could cause some chaos of interpretation and application of individual legal standards. However, let us not pretend that the existing legislation does not have any shortcomings with regard to the implementation and implementation of the individual provisions of the law in practice. That is true indeed, but it is an application problem, which should be addressed above all at the level of executives, how better to enforce, enforce the law. Of course, it also has its own plane, which is expressed by a constant and binding caselaw, so of course it is a matter that affects justice. So my position on the bill is that I will not support it precisely because it is duplicated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u32	Thank you, honourable Member. With another proper application - Mr Černoch withdraws. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u33	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just say here that the finance ex-minister Kalousek has begun to implement a register of assets. I'm sorry if my colleague Votava here is talking about us starting to put it together now. He himself, as chairman of the budget committee, knows very well how the register works, where there are problems, that the ministries are working, and the various ministries don't want to list the assets, so they don't see under it. [[unintelligible]] But the project is actually already underway. Now it's filled. So don't tell me you found America. It's just to clarify that it's not what was said here. And, quite exceptionally, I'm joining social democracy here. I also consider this legislation to be redundant. I would rather welcome the refinement of existing legislation, but not in this form. And it's really very problematic to say what's rational and what's irrational. Most of you here mostly approved in the House that we are giving PGRLF 250 million, i.e. A quarter of a billion, for advertising purposes. From our point of view, it's top irrationality, inexpensiveness, so you should probably be prosecuted by now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u34	I thank Mr Laudát. With a factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Holík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u35	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words on duplication. Yes, we have a number of laws that are similar. But why? Because this is all shattered. We would need one solid law, one solid rule to do so. Because the Czech Republic, if I compare it with Austria, has twice as many laws. We have so many laws that no one knows them anymore. And for that reason, let's simplify it. And let's do something. Let's give one law that can simplify all the work. And as for the right caretaker. I remember when I started my job, the master said, "Here are your tools, and you have your responsibility for everything." If you screw something up, it's your problem. It exists in companies. And we can't do it here? We're the elite of the nation here. And let us remember one thing - what rating, what confidence does the Chamber of Deputies have? Very bad, one of the worst. Now, after the election, it's gone up a little bit. Let's do everything we can to make sure that at the end of our term, it's not as bad as it was after the last government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u36	I thank the honourable Member. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant's final words, if any, to the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u37	Mr Vice-President, dear government, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to reiterate in the final report the arguments that I have already said here, which have also been quoted here, that according to the Government's opinion, which is the Parliament's press 119/1, this is a duplicate. We have extensive legislation to address this problem. We also have a large-scale control system that addresses this issue. There are various legislative technical defects. I would therefore like to reiterate the proposal to reject this proposal at first reading for the reasons set out above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u38	Thank you to the rapporteur. There was a motion to dismiss, which I will put to the vote. I'll call our colleagues in the lobby. At your request, I'm signing you all off. Please sign up with your voting cards. Initiating vote to reject this bill at first reading. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 46, registered 129 Members of Parliament, for 87, against 14. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. A motion for rejection was therefore accepted. I'm done discussing this bill. Since it is 13:01 p.m., I would like to interrupt the meeting until 14:30 p.m., wish you all a good taste and remind you that in five minutes the organizing committee will meet. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-014-023.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, let me start our afternoon meeting. Please take your seats. We'll continue by discussing the fixed points. The first is point 45. Before we begin, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down so we can hear each other. Thank you.
