ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u1	179. Appeals against the decision of the mandate and immune committee pursuant to § 16 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies President Miroslav Kalousek's appeal was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies within the prescribed period. To this point, you were handed out on the bench on Wednesday, September 17th, resolution of the mandate and immunity committee number 82 of 16 September of this year. First of all, I ask the rapporteur of the mandate and immunity committee of Mr Radek Vondráček to take the position at the rapporteur's table and follow me through the negotiations. I now ask that Mr Miroslav Kalousek state his appeal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The honourable Member, honourable Members, the mandate and immune committee has adopted a decision requiring me to apologise to Mr Ondráček for saying in Parliament's debate that he was a communist cop. I do not agree with this decision, and I have therefore appealed to the Chamber of Deputies and I would like to propose that you abolish the decision of the mandate and immunity committee. Please allow me to make a few arguments in support of my proposal. First of all, there is no vulgarism in the words of a communist cop. A cop is a word that meets the standards of common Czech, commonly used and used, and we, who were about Palachův's week and in September 1989 on Wenceslas Square, did not otherwise label them. We called them the cop most often, we also called them thugs, or using the first name of the then president of the Republic, we called them gustapas. We have also used several other terms, but they are already vulgar. I wouldn't dare say that on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm sure the word "cop" isn't vulgar. [[11.10 hours]] Yes, there's a great deal of contempt in that word. The contempt that some of us feel for the work of the then emergency regiment of the National Security Corps. I would never dare use that word to mark a former law enforcement officer, a CSI or a transporter. It was just a profession that every regime needed, and those people were doing the public service. But the National Security and Emergency Regiment members of the National Security Corps did not perform public service. They served a criminal regime to brutally suppress not crime, but acts of free will, civic attitudes and efforts to democratize the country. They were just communist cops. I understand that some members of the mandate and immunity committee of the government coalition, Mr. Zlatuška, Fichtner of the ANO movement, Mr. Tejc or Mr Chvojka do not share this view that they look at the word cop differently because they simply do not feel contempt for the work of these people and perceive them neutrally, perhaps even positively. But for those of us who feel contempt, we certainly have a right to the word of a cop, and it is not an insult, but an opinional conflict. This is an opinional conflict, as we perceive these people's activities. I also understand that Members of the government coalition do not wish to say such words because they have an extremely positive relationship with these people. I could give you dozens of examples. I'll say one loud one for all of them. Quite recently, an officer has been appointed as the second most important man at the Police Presidium, deputy for criminal proceedings, who has had a seven-year career as a State Security officer. The government doesn't mind. It bothers some of us because the seven years of a State Security officer's career justify the word communist cop, as I have heard and read his arguments, even with Mr Ondráček. Sorry - even Mr Vondráček. Well, the man today serves Sobotk, Babiš, Chovanc, as zealously as he served Lorenc, Obzin and Jakeš. Sometimes I wonder if sometimes not with a similar assignment. So it's quite logical that the members of the government coalition want to ban this word more or less. And I do not agree with that, please, because that word expresses a certain opinion and that opinion belongs in the Chamber of Deputies. As another argument, I would also argue that the word did not sound self-purpose. I didn't wake up that morning, and I didn't say what I'd do today, I'm gonna shove myself into Mr. Ondráček. I used it in a debate that was very possible. If you recall correctly, the debate was about whether or not there would be parliamentary scrutiny over the financial analysis service as an undoubtedly intelligence unit. Colleagues, please, could you pass me some water? Thank you for understanding. Parliamentary scrutiny will or will not be established. [[A bottle of water was delivered to the speaker.]] One of the great conveniences that the November Revolution and democracy we gained after it was that political control and parliamentary control were taken over by the repressive forces of the state, which had been largely state-owned until then. That politicians simply took control of the repressive forces that people were afraid of until then. Some of us have advocated it here, some of us have rejected it - and Mr Ondráček has very strongly opposed the fact that he does not want such control. In my opinion, he, as a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, defended, from a certain point of view, the same principles that he defended in his hand in 1989, and that is why it was necessary, in my view, at that moment, to say not only what is said but also who is saying it. That certain opinions with the stamina of mold simply cling to our democratic institutions and grow quite dangerously. This view also belongs to the Chamber of Deputies. I know, some members of the government coalition can say to me, "What are you shaking?" What a parliamentary control, what it is too, everything stolen and we want to work. Don't fly! [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] Twenty-five years here was all wrong! Everything here has been wrong for 25 years, and now we're gonna come work and fix it! Some words will be released, some words will be forbidden and no one will be asked! And no one can ask us if, after the great anti-corruption revolution, we're stealing three times as much as it's been stolen for 25 years. Even this view, ladies and gentlemen, belongs to the Chamber of Deputies. And here I simply have a fundamental conflict of opinion with the members of the mandate and immunity committee. How we view or do not look at the activities of repressive forces before 1989. If we have a neutral relationship with them, whether we respect them or whether we feel contempt. If we feel contempt for them, we will express that opinion by the word of a cop. I therefore see the decision of the mandate and immunity committee rather as an attempt to suppress a certain opinion that Members do not agree with. I quite understand why some members of the government coalition simply disagree. Again, the government has a relatively warm relationship with people with this past, it has them appointed to high positions in the Police of the Czech Republic as well as in the state administration, and after all, not all members of the government can present a clean illustration certificate. I understand that you do not like the view, but the parliamentary debate is for the opinion to be delivered. Trying to ban him by the mandate and the immune committee is an attempt to suppress a free debate. I therefore wish to propose a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies: the Chamber of Deputies repeals the decision of the mandate and immunity committee number 82.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u3	I thank Mr Kalousek. First of all, I have two factual points. Mr Vondráček, Mr Mihola, Mr Kováčik, Mr Stanjura, Mr Stanjura, Mr Fichtner, Mrs Chalánková, Mrs Fichtner, Mr Ondráček, Mr Tejc, Mr Fichtner, Mr Vondráček, Mr Vondráček, Mr Vondráček, Mr Vondráček, Mr Mihola, Mr Mihola, Mr M. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not comment on the very matter, on any language analysis. I just wanted to get off, so I wouldn't be interpreted as a member of the mandate and immune committee, what bothers me, why I said what I said. I, at my age, am able to speak for myself. I did not mind the content, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, I did not mind the form. I believe that you can also be right in a material way, but it is not necessary in this House, in this honourable House, as Vice-President Gazdík said last yesterday in the hearing, to use some words. It's a word that's rude. The competition can be settled intelligently, funnyly, without resorting to these vulgarisms. It's growing, things are escalating. I'm sorry about the whole thing that we're wasting our time and that we're discussing this. I'd ask you to just let some words out and treat each other right here. I don't care about anything but decent behavior. That's about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u5	I thank Mr Vondráček. With another factual remark, Mr Mihola, followed by Mr Tejc. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u6	Hello, colleagues. Thank you for the floor. I will just briefly comment on what the President of the TOP 09 Kalousek parliamentary club has said. I don't like the flat-rate "members of the government coalition." Members of the government coalition would like to ban something. I don't know if he was doing research or if he was talking to everyone. For KDU-ČSL Members, I can say that we discussed this at the club. We don't want to forbid anything. These words are quite distant from our dictionary. Personally, I'm trying to use terms that are appropriate. On the other hand, we agreed that it is necessary to accept that: The Chamber of Deputies is a collapsing place where there are things old and new, and it is necessary to be armored to be able to accept expressions that go beyond common language. So much for the KDU-ČSL club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u7	I thank Mr Mihol. With another factual remark, Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to use the factual notes, perhaps two minutes will be enough. I wouldn't even be performing if it weren't for Miroslav Kalousek. To begin with, neither I nor any of my parents nor any of my grandparents have ever been a member of the Communist Party. On the contrary, můj grandfather was a political prisoner after 1948. But I beg him to master me here and interpret my views in a way that was very manipulative, Miroslav Kalousek, who was a member of the People's Party in the 1980s, who was then a member of the National Front. [[Applause for Members of the ČSSD.]] I'm convinced this isn't about solving insults at all. I think we're used to insults, and after all, it's not just Miroslav Kalousek who uses sharp words. I'd even forgive him. I certainly wouldn't have driven him to the mandate committee. I think we're witnessing one thing now. There is no competition for parliamentary debate, here is the election campaign of Mr Ondráček for KSČM and Mr Miroslav Kalousek for TOP 09. That's all we're here for. [[Applause for Members of the ČSSD.]] And I'll admit that I've made a clear point of view, and I'm not gonna take part in the vote that's here because I don't like to take part in a campaign other than the political party I'm running for. I would also like to say that, in my view, we may need to moderate the words, on the other hand, so that we do not be empathetic, for each statement being sent to the mandate committee. I think that Miroslav Kalousek also has experience, who here has driven the assumption of a sober state about David Rath's person to the mandate committee, and then the government coalition insisted on a fine of 10,000. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'm convinced it wasn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u9	Thank you, Mr Tejc. President Mihola has another factual point. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u10	I have to respond - the National Front. As a historian, I know the past, and I won't pretend I didn't. But please look in the KDU-ČSL benches who are sitting there. How many people are sitting there, please, nationwide fronters! I would really like to, and I very much point out here, I myself, at the time when the CSL was part of the National Front, did not go to the pioneer, did not even take a pioneer vow, although it was done by everyone and said it was a completely normal thing. Instead, I went to religion at a time when it was just punishment and bad judgment. I am very offended by joining the current club in any connection with the National Front! Really in our ranks, take a good look, and then remember this here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u11	I thank Mr Mihol. I repeat that we are not discussing the National Front, but the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee. With another factual remark, Mr Podivínský, followed by Mr Tejc. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u12	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Government, Colleagues, I and the account of the President of our club can say that I was in line before 1989 at the most for meat I was forced to stand on because the meat was once a week in the village and had to become a queue for it. [[Cheer up in the left side of the hall.]] But to the statements. I am far from strong statements and expressive expressions and even vulgarisms, because my grandmother, who gave me her upbringing, always told me: always with nobles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u13	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I take the liberty of asking the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm. It's also part of the decency to question a colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u14	I am a long way from expressive expressions, offensive expressions, but I am of the same opinion that there is already a election campaign going on, and various statements are falling in it. We were labeled black assholes years ago. In case of interest, I can prove transparently that I do not really belong to such a category and it is absolutely clear. [[A round of applause for KDU-ČSL Members.]] So I would really refrain from these statements, and I don't consider them to be what someone should be punished for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u15	Thank you, Mr. Podivínský fellow. With another factual remark, Mr Jeroným Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all need to listen to each other and listen carefully. In order to reassure Mr Mihola, through the President, I am clearly stating that I have in no way given any link between the KDU-ČSL and the People's Party. I just wanted to point out the fate of one of us who's moralizing others now, and in my opinion, he's got butter on his head. I'm not gonna judge anyone. I don't care who, when, and what side he was on. The important thing is how he has behaved in the last 25 years, whether he has survived or failed in the democratic regime that he is. I am convinced that this really is not a topic for this House. We have more important things to do, and that is why, if I am not provoked and I am not forced to do so, I will not report to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u17	With another factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. After that, Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u18	To the nation-front past. All the gardeners have it, all the football players have it, all the athletes have it, because there wasn't a single organization that could exist without being part of the National Front, please nicely. They were all part of the National Front, but the Communist Party had a leading role from the Constitution and had the beating heart of the party, in whose ranks Mr Ondráček belonged. Let's make it clear what's going on with the national history. Otherwise, all of us who want to hear this know that a regular member of the People's Party had it much worse than a non-stakeholder, both in terms of studies and in terms of employment. Second comment on Mr Mihol. Since this was the case, and you know it well - Sorry, through Mr President, many of your members who were also members of the People's Party back then know that this is the case, so why does it offend you when someone reminds you of the national history, while you are not offended at all by the current presence of the government's relationship with the Aesthebians? [[President: By me, please.]] That doesn't offend you. You're a member of the government party and you're not offended by the government's relationship with the aesthetics, while the nation-front past of your own members offends you, even though there were gardeners, footballers and all who wanted to do some kind of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u19	I thank Mr Kalousek. With another factual remark, Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u20	Thank you. The aim and motive of the mandate and immune committee on this matter was to create a certain appeal to all colleagues sitting here to start treating each other with some respect to prevent any mutual assault, some heated situations. In order to create a certain higher political culture, ethics - and it turned out exactly the other way around, as you can already watch here. Exactly the opposite. And all I can say is that it's like this here with everything. And I can think of a lot of expressive expressions that I would like to say and not use in this honorable House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u21	I thank Mr Vondráček. We now come after the factual remarks on priority rights. Mr Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM, is the first to be entered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Government, the two sides of the dispute, which we are perhaps going to crack here in some way and which we are dealing with here. If I wanted to extend the debate further towards the debate, where it went wrong, I would have to respond to my colleague Podivínský, who was talking about the fronts. While there was at least a queue at the mobile store, today the small heirloom doesn't even show up. And whoever doesn't have a car to go shopping at the supermarket stays dependent on the neighbors, the kids and all that. So let's not talk about it. I understand there's a debate going on here that has a strong electoral ethos, a charge. But let me point out that I don't understand the argument that our colleague Ondráček is running the campaign here. I don't really understand. I understand that the election campaign has been launched here by all those who have led her into the waters of the past. We're not dealing with the past here. The past, specifically my colleague, Ondráček. That's settled. It was solved by being elected to this Chamber of Deputies. I do not think that we should constantly stare at the large rear-view mirror and, even from my mouth, there have been many very harsh evaluations and condemnations of things that have happened in the past. So don't drag me to my current purposefully understood words. So I think that we would simply put these debates into this particular debate, when colleague Kalousek appealed to the decision of the mandate and immune committee, which basically calls on him to behave politely, if I make it very simple again. I'm sure my colleague will forgive and understand. However, I want to stand up for this debate, as Mr Kalousek here said in his speech to some security forces for any regime that exists very necessarily to protect the interests of the state, I want to stand up for, for example, current members of the Security Information Service, which I do not consider to be cops. I think in this debate, when we look away from the campaign that always happens here when something like this comes up, the past is immediately erased, and in the meantime, life runs under the windows of this House with ordinary ones, and I assure you, the really great human worries of our citizens. So I'd like to take her to the field where she was originally. This field is personal relationships, personal assaults, personal dealing with some sort of more or less accounts, whether past or present. The common human decency, morality and ethics of human relations today. I don't want to say what's going on, that's what it was, let's do some fat witchcraft - that's not gonna go away, that's not gonna happen. But today we're having a nice time together, please, and I'm not saying this for the first time here, being polite as colleagues and colleagues. I can disagree a thousand times with the opinion of any opponent, a political opponent in this Chamber of Deputies, but I will never stop respecting him and I will never stop treating him politely. My, at least mine, and I believe that our, at the KSČM club of all colleagues, the creed is that politics should not relate to a particular person. This solution is not meant to be through assault, defamation, lashing, dehonesting a particular person, a particular Member or a Member, a minister, a minister, a Prime Minister and so on. In this context, I would like to propose a resolution that we should adopt, and I propose it as an alternative to the motion for a resolution by my colleague Kalousek. So it's either that or it, just so we're clear. And this resolution, and I ask you to support it, although it is more general than that of Mr Kalouskův, reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on Members to continue to respect elementary decency in relations and communication. Let them deal with their personal disputes and dislikes outside this House and its institutions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u23	Thank you to President Kováčik. Now I have two factual points. First, Mr Martin Plíšek, then Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I was only elected to the mandate and immunity committee yesterday, so I could not take part in the vote on the shameful resolution that Mr Kalousek should apologise for his free speech on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Member Tejc said here a moment ago that these matters should not be dealt with by the mandate and immune committee; he should not deal with the freedom of expression of our Members on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Nevertheless, in their resolution, Members of the Government Coalition ordered the Member to apologise for his free speech in the House. This goes against each other, and I hope that I will not have to take part in this shameful practice as a new member of the mandate and immune committee in the future. Thank you for your attention. . [[Applause for Members of the TOP 09]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u25	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. With another factual remark, Mr Schwarz. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u26	Hello, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. President Kováčik's resolution: I understand the resolution. I'd just like to say, please, but that's a matter of course. I think we should not adopt resolutions on how to behave here! That should be for sure. That's all I wanted to say. I don't want to comment on the incident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u27	I thank Mr Schwarz. With another factual remark, Mr Pavel Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u28	Thank you for the floor. To your colleague, Mr President: I have been here too long to know that this should be taken for granted. But at the same time, I've been here too long to know that it's far from obvious and that the seemingly misleading "please, let's keep it for granted" has its meaning. Perhaps not just between us here in the Chamber of Deputies, but perhaps also to make sure that those outsiders are looking at how we are dealing with ourselves instead of dealing with problems that are real to this country and hot and burdensome, so maybe they will also have some meaning, that perhaps there is finally some turnover, morality and ethics. And now I don't mean constantly remembering what we are, it's us, but above all in morals and ethics of our everyday work and our everyday relationships. I would like to ask, again, very hard, at least by this symbolic step, this resolution, by approving this resolution, to show the will that we want this to be the case in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u29	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. With another proper application with priority rights, Mr. President of the Civic Democratic Party's Civic Club Zbyněk Stanjura is registered. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u30	Good morning, thank you for the floor. I was quite upset at the beginning of the debate with those wannabe ironic or wannabe funny remarks, because I think we're dealing with a really serious problem and we're talking about freedom of speech. And even about freedom of speech on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. It is very hypocritical when government MPs come here and say: Why are we discussing this? We're wasting time! I agree with that. But it was not the opposition that pushed through the mandate and immunity committee to punish Mr Kalousek. But probably, I don't know, but in all committees, the government coalition has a majority, so I'm based on this simple mathematical reasoning. So first you send it over here, and then you say it's wrong that it's here. And that's in general terms. [[11.40 hours]] I'm a fan of freedom of speech. And even when I hear here, and not only here, but elsewhere, absolutely outrageous, outrageous statements by Members, as comrade Grebeníček, comrade Grospič, comrade Semelová, and there are ideas of some people, we say a criminal report, so I say it's impossible. If there is freedom of speech, so also these Stalinists must use it and have the right to say so. And we have to try not to get support in the elections. And either we succeed or we don't, they either reach out to more voters or we do. I've been in politics for a while, and I've seen enough of these blows, personal attacks, dirty insults, false accusations. I never complained about it. I never filed any criminal charges. Each of us is different, but I say - who gives punches should also be able to take punches. Mr., not Mr., Mr. Ondráček certainly knows how to punch. In January 1989, he showed that he was good at punching. Bil. He beat girls and young women. He was defending himself by being spit on him. So he used the baton. I've got a transcript of his famous interview on my tablet. Whoever you want, look it up on YouTube live from the record, what he said, how dissidents, how those who demonstrate against the Communists are all paid from the West, and the more they slander the socialist and communist establishment, the better they are paid. So when he was able to give out the wounds, he would take such a small wound as the indication that he was a communist cop. I consider this from Mr Kalousek as an indication from the CV, or a CV, to speak Czech, one of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies. In January 1989 I was a programmer at the state enterprise Agroprojekt Opava and MP Ondráček was a communist cop. Who cares and thinks it's offensive or expressive, we can call it a communist hitter or a model member of the SNB, a protector of the socialist homeland - at will. Anyone can give it a different name. When my opponents think I'm offended, they call me a primitive anticommunist. And they say it so pejoratively and with such resistance. I'm not offended. I'm proud of being an anti-communist. And you can see how everyone sees that word differently. They see him as an insult, and I see him as a positive assessment of my political views. But the problem isn't that we sometimes have an address here that one of us perceives pejoratively, one of us perceives it as a job assignment or a CV statement. It's just that there are absolutely scandalous sentences falling in this House, much worse, and none of us is telling Members and Members to take the right to say that. An hour and a half ago, for example, today, what we have heard about churches in the Czech Republic. And I could list other points of the other debate, what we've heard about how well it was here under the Communists, how everything has been wrong for 25 years and so on. I will certainly support Mr Kalousek's proposal to abolish the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee. If we don't cancel it, then I suggest we keep the mandate and immune committee in session. Each of us is able to produce ten sentences a day from the tapestry of various Members of the Chamber of Deputies, which he perceives as offensive, pejorative, false, false, I do not know how. But I guess I'm done with what I said. Whoever can punch with a stick, a baton, a baton, and what is possible, should be able to accept the designation of what he has done with humility and without referring to the fact that he is offended. You didn't... No, I'm not gonna say it either, because I don't want to say it. Maybe the last thing I want to say. We were talking about mutual respect. But respect can't be bought or won by a majority saying this person respect has or doesn't. And MP Ondráček didn't have my respect, he doesn't, and he doesn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u31	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now I have two factual points. First of all, Mr Tejc, after Mr Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u32	I think it is necessary to place today's House meeting in the context of the earlier decisions of the House and the mandate committee. It was the first time that, in my opinion, the limits of freedom of speech had been discussed in this House, but it was not from my impulse, it was from the instigation of Miroslav Kalousek, who complained about the mandate committee on David Rath's statement - I quote: "You are probably not in a completely sober state, Minister." So that was the dirty statement for which the then government coalition not only imposed an obligation on former Member Rath to apologize, but also ordered the payment of a fine of CZK 10,000. I don't want to judge whether it was right or wrong. But I just want to say that today is not the first time that we are talking about a limit to freedom of speech that this precedent has been introduced here by someone else - a former government coalition that said that similar statements that make no sense to examine whether they are or are not true, but whether they are offensive, even financial sanctions are to be punished. I voted against that decision then, and as I have already said, I am not going to take part in the vote today. This is my position on freedom of speech in this House. And I believe there will be no reason for some colleagues to complain in the future, just as there will be no reason for us to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u33	Thank you. Mr Kováčik, Mr Kalousek, followed by Mr Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would like to clarify after listening to the debate that I am changing my motion for a resolution. So it is not like an alternative motion for a resolution, but it is a motion for a resolution that should be voted on in any case. First of all. Two. It's a freedom of speech border. I don't want to discuss her right now. I think there's a difference between freedom of speech and freedom of anyone and at any time without any thought or any shores to insult, attack atp. And that is what we consider in the mandate committee. So that's what we have the tool for. But after some of my colleagues have been appointed here, I have to say that citizens under those windows of government buildings and House buildings are plagued by, among other things, I would almost say the most, corruption, the stolen republic, being emptied everywhere, being sold out... And those relationships in politics. Among other things, because those who have ruled here so far have not seen all these things, have not endured, or even in their name, I do not want to say, it may seem that they have also supported, so it is here, or in the last elections there has been a substantial change in the political composition of this House. I don't want to say that preferences move some up, some down. It is also because - that is the message of the citizens - even in the decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u35	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. With another factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u36	By your means, Mr President, Mr Tejc. Comparing these two cases is a completely absurd and ridiculous mist. You're a lawyer. You know that slander is a false figure. If I told you you were a communist cop, I certainly slandered you and I had to apologize to you, just like Rath had to apologize to me back then because he lied to me because I was sober. While Mr. Ondráček was undoubtedly a communist cop. And in the word cop, I express my contempt for the repressive forces of this type.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u37	I thank Mr Kalousek. With another factual remark, Mr Komárek, the President of the Fiala, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll remind you that at a time when no one has been here, nor the press, you criticized the Prime Minister for campaigning today at the time of the intercession. Mr. Kalousek is undoubtedly more cunning, he dragged the campaign here, as usual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u39	I'm sorry. I think it was the decision of the mandate and immunity committee and the decision of the House, but it doesn't matter. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u40	I do not know why you interrupt me when I have done no insults, as some Members sometimes do. [[The President apologizes.]] Well, I accept the apology, and I'll allow myself to proceed. To prevent certain demagogy, I think everyone understands that this is not what Mr Kalousek says. We don't discuss freedom of speech. God forbid! I am an absolute advocate of freedom of speech anywhere, and even in this House. We are debating whether Mr Kalousek has offended colleague Ondráček under the Rules of Procedure, because insulting behaviour simply does not allow the Rules of Procedure. So all we're discussing is whether or not a communist cop is an insult. Also, we are not discussing whether anyone who thinks that colleague Ondráček was offended that the same person approves the practices of the Huska police. That's the demagogy Mr. Kalousek wants us to have. Please don't approach her because we're talking factually about a material insult. Instead, there are big political words coming out here, even interfering with the YES movement for some reason, which has nothing to do with it. Please, let us discuss whether colleague Ondráček was offended, and let us decide responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u41	I thank Mr Komárek. Now I have two factual points. First of all, Mr Vondráček, after him Mrs Němcová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u42	Thank you. When I listened to the debate, I will only briefly respond to my colleague Martin Plíšek, who joined the mandate and immune committee with restrictions on freedom of speech. Of course, the standards of decent behavior are one of the social standards and the standards of decent behavior really restrict free speech. My mother, my father, set these standards for me. And my mom kept me in free speech, and she didn't want me to say anything. And that was the basic idea. For Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, if we are in conflict. We're not in conflict. What we're trying to say here is that it's wrong at all, that it's here. That wasn't supposed to be here at all. [[Laughter in ODS and TOP 09.]] But the decision of the mandate and immunity committee is a consequence, please. The reason is that it was even heard here. It's just not meant to be said here. I hear here how many times the word communist cop has been heard here with gusto - I will also say it to myself to enjoy it - and I conclude that I have made a mistake voting on the mandate and immune committee, as I voted. It doesn't help at all, it's like throwing games at a wall. We just thought we'd grow some culture here. It turned out exactly the other way around. And I come to the conclusion that my colleague Tejc has also made: I will abstain, I will simply not vote on this matter because it does not lead to anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u43	I thank Mr Vondráček. With another factual remark, Mrs Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u44	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr Vice-President, I just want to respond to a colleague of Komárek, who, with his innate ease with whom he wrote, says anything in the wind here. I must tell you that Mr Kalousek did not bring this debate to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And connecting it to the election campaign is completely absurd, because you would have to be able to look back when that statement happened and what actually happened afterwards. The meeting of the Chamber of Deputies took place sometime in June. I do not remember exactly when this statement was made in a rather heated debate. If we were to go back, what anyone has ever said in what debate, then indeed the mandate committee will sit nonstop. So what I'm saying is that this matter was said much earlier than we ever knew it would come to a meeting, as decided by the mandate and immune committee. First of all. When, therefore, he will have to deal with it according to the appeal of Mr Kalousek to the Chamber of Deputies. However, I certainly want to say, and now I am not speaking as chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, but as a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, that I consider it shameful that the mandate and immunity committee has adopted this decision. It is a mistake that we have made in relation to a deeper understanding of what was happening in our country, the reasons why there are people sitting here with such a dark past, which we must not even name, that they were involved in repression against the free-minded citizens of Czechoslovakia at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u45	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. The President of the ODS, Mr Petr Fiala, is the next party with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u46	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, I am delighted to hear Members sign up one by one for a decent hearing, how we should not be offended, how we are to speak in writing, nicely, etc. etc., what my mother taught. I would've signed it all if you'd measured all the same subway. Here was a statement that we could include into general Czech - a communist cop. Well, maybe I'd use another dictionary, but it's just a general English term. From this point on, the members of the government, or specifically one member of the government, the vulgarisms, the expressive expressions. It was even me who urged him to speak politely in the Chamber of Deputies. And where were you then, you preachers of morality? You were silent because he was the chairman of your movement! So if we want to talk about morality, decent behavior, etc., let's start by example ourselves, and then we can preach to others. And measure all the same subway, including the chairman of your movement, and then I'm sure I'll support you. But the important thing is what I want to say. I'm really very sad about the debate we're having here on the eve of November 25, 1989. I don't know if they've looked at the video that's commonly available on all sorts of websites, and you've heard what my colleague Zdeněk Ondráček is talking about. If any of you don't think of the possible designation of a communist cop, I really think you lived in some other country. Well, I'll tell you in other words. I'll tell you in the words of the Communist Resistance Act. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček was a member of the repressive forces of a criminal, illegitimate and reprehensible regime and acted aggressively towards people who held opposition to legitimate, fair, morally justified and worthy of respect. Mr Ondráček, through Mr President, your position at the time was not worthy of respect, but the words of the law were criminal, illegitimate and reprehensible! [[Let's hear it from the right.]] And that's not gonna make any difference if we deny ourselves that we're not gonna say you were a communist cop!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u47	Thank you to Chairman Fial. We're getting proper applications. First of all, Mrs Chalánková, after her Mr Fichtner. [[Member Benešík reporting with fact prefers a messenger. Chalans.]] Mrs Chalánková, after her factual comment by Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, believe that the citizens of the Czech Republic and the events in the House are watching. Tops 09's leadership received a letter today, which I will read to you: Mr President of the MP's club, we are not quite successfully dealing with the legacy of the Communist totalitarian regime. The basic starting point for this balance is for communism, the non-free regime, to be told by the truth that the real state of affairs should be described. When you described a communist cop by the name of a communist cop, you just named it reality. [[12.00 hours]] We therefore ask you not to apologise for these words, as the mandate and immune committee of the Chamber of Deputies calls for you to do. You don't have a mandate from your constituents to apologize. We express our support to you in the principle of telling the truth about communist realities. The truth is to be said on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. We ask you to address all Members of the House with this basic message. With respect without communists.cz, a platform of civil, democratic and anti-communist initiatives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u49	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Mr Benešík, Mr Benešík, is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u50	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief notic on what was said here a moment ago. If we accept the premise that it was stolen here after November 1989, and I have no doubt that many of the assets transfers at that time can be called theft, I understand President Kováčik's remarks as largely a criticism of his party predecessors. All you have to do is look at the people who came to the property and who helped them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u51	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Next to the general debate is Mr Fichtner, followed by Mr Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at this problem without the political mist that many of my previous speakers have been trying to create. Basic facts. The mandate and immunity committee shall be a disciplinary body of the Chamber of Deputies, which shall ensure that Members comply with the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure and other regulations. It must therefore move strictly within the limits of the Rules of Procedure and be impartial as far as possible. According to Article 13 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may be instituted against a Member who, by a statement made in the House or in its institutions, offends a Member. According to Article 13 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) According to Article 15 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Members may be required to apologise for an inappropriate statement within the time limit laid down and in the manner laid down or to impose a fine up to one month's salary for disciplinary misconduct. So, in other words, a mandate and an immune committee can impose sanctions on Members if they meet three conditions. Firstly, this Member must offend another Member, and secondly, this must happen in the House or in its institutions, and thirdly, the offended Member concerned must complain to the mandate and immune committee. That the statement was made in the House, it is proved, that is undoubtedly, just as it is undisputed that Mr Ondráček complained with the mandate and immunity committee. The last question remains, that is, for Mr Kalousek, was offended by his statement by Mr Ondráček. Mr Kalousek called him a communist cop. It's an insult, isn't it? There is no doubt that Mr Ondráček was involved in suppressing anti-communist demonstrations before 1989 as a member of the Emergency Regiment of the National Security Corps. He doesn't deny that, either. There is also no doubt that the totalitarian communist regime in Czechoslovakia between 1948 and 1989 is reprehensible and irretrievably damaged by the Czech society. It is true, then, that Mr Ondráček was a member of the Communist police or, if you wish, a communist essenbake. Let us now overlook the fact that he was 20 years old at that time. That's a different story. The term "communist cop" is a vulgar alternative to the term "communist genius." I assume that Mr Kalousek is so intelligent that if he uses a vulgar term for something that can be said politely, he does so on purpose. The intention in this case can be nothing but to ridicule, insult, harm the opponent. I'm sure it's an insult. And since this is an insult, the last condition for which Members may be subject to disciplinary proceedings is also met, as the mandate and immunity committee has done. Thus, the decision of the mandate and immunity committee is entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, can only be advised not to approach vulgarities next time if he wants to speak in the Chamber of Deputies or in its bodies about other Members. If he has a need to mock someone, he can do it nicely. With his rhetorical abilities, this will certainly not cause him any problem. Mr Kalousek told us that he was using a vulgar term because he was so used to it last time that he didn't even think it was any vulgarism, or that it might offend anyone. Yes, that can happen. Fortunately, you don't have to worry, dear colleagues, there is a mandate and an immune committee to which you can contact. Once a communist, a second time maybe an ODS or a TOP 09. As in the past, Mr Miroslav Kalousek turned to the mandate and immune committee when he was similarly unflattered by Mr David Rath. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the mandate and immunity committee adopted the following resolution at its meeting of 23 September 2014: The mandate and immunity committee calls on Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to refrain from hearing statements that could be perceived as offensive in the Chamber of Deputies and in its institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u53	I thank Mr Fichtner. I now have three factual points - first Mr Kováčik, after him Mr Horáček, after him Mr Lank. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u54	Thank you for the floor. Only through you, Mr President, on the remark made by Mr Benešík. Now that I would ask all of you, with the exception of the KSČM club, to raise your hands, who were members of the KSČ, or the National Security Corps members or the Czechoslovak People's Army or other components. That probably wouldn't be enough hands. [[Rising noise to the right.]] All I'm saying is, to my colleague Benešík's comment, that we who have remained have not even been able to dig up or participate in something for which we must now reap the glory in quotation marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u55	I take it from Mr Kováčik only as a rhetorical question, he does not want to do so in fact. [[Member Kováčik from the place: when the time comes.]] When the time comes. Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Horáček, Mr Lank, followed by Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u56	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to respond to Mr Fichtner's speech, through Mr President. All you have to do is open a wiki dictionary where the word cop is normally given. And it says not a vulgar word, but in general language grossly. And grossly, he's a secret police officer. I believe that what Mr Fiala said here, that then we will all go to the immune and mandate committee here, because we are speaking rudely, there is no doubt about it. So if this wasn't a vulgar word, then the other word is "communist." [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] Well, let's just say he's over the line, I wouldn't dare do that to my colleagues. And if we're gonna deal with this in this way, I'm worried about my big actor, who I love so much, he doesn't live anymore - Ladislav Pešek, who said, "Bang, out of the bag!". He said it and Mr. Ondráček did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u57	I thank Mr Horáček. With another factual remark, Mr Lank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u58	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that, like my colleagues on the mandate and immunity committee, of which I am a member, I am not very pleased that we are dealing with this matter here. Nor do I care to make it clear whether or not my colleague Ondráček was what Kalousek called him. It's not about content, it's about form. Because even if that were true, you could say it elegantly and intelligently. And you, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, can certainly do that. I understand that many of us have been used to calling members of the StB or emergency regiment different, different names. Me too. But now it's about whether we want to use it here at the House plenary. Now, if we say it's okay, then we mustn't wonder if anyone will talk and label as they used to when we're debating, like, prostitutes, mentally or physically disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u59	Thank you, Mr. Lank. With another factual remark, Mr Benešík, Mr Blažek and Mr Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u60	Mr President, I will respond briefly. I was very careful because I said "party predecessors," so I'm not accusing anyone of the current club KSČM. And I also said, "for a large part," not a hundred percent, so that we could understand each other. So I hope I haven't offended anyone in this House. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u61	I thank Mr Benešík for his explanation. Mr Blažek, Mr Zlatuška, followed by Mr Okamura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u62	Hello. Thank you for the floor. It happens sometimes that you have to agree with a communist, that's just the way it is. So I would like to follow up on Mr Kováčik, a little in a different way. I've said here before that whether we like it or not, I don't like the debates about the past here, in short and well the Communists are still enough in this House, because there is a group of people who think that if the previous regime had been maintained, they would have been better off. It's just a thing we're not gonna move around with, and I don't want to go back to the past and I don't want to attack anyone. [[12.10 hours]] But it is worse for me, and here I want to say, Mr Ondráček has been running for the Communist Party and is not one of those who have been much more out of the regime, but absolutely for every regime they apply further. Of course I mean Andrej Babiš. There's no regime for which he wasn't in the fairy tale, whether it was a communist regime or the '90s that cursed so much. And he made the most money on them when the structures he was in were falling, he was leaving them, and he kept on going. Anyone can choose. And here I would also like to say a word about people I don't appreciate very much. Whether it's Danton or Robespierre or Fouché or Talleyrand, that means he'll survive for every regime and he'll always be upstairs. With Andrej Babiš, I'm sure that if she were to occupy us - and I resent the moral sermon from him, he has the right to say what has been done wrong, but he does not have the slightest right to preach morally here. I think that if we were occupied by some Islamic state, owned by them, today by a very popular newspaper, they would write an article about Andrej being born in some small village in Slovakia, where he and Mom had a secret mosque and they all met there. [[Fun in the hall.]] That's just an obvious example. And once again, I say that he criticizes the past, but that moral sermon is not going to fill Mr Kalousek's deed with anything compared to Mr Kalousek. [[Time warning]] It's worse with Mr. Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u63	Well, thank you. Mr Zlatuška, Mr Okamura after him, Mr Faltýnek after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u64	Mr President, there was a reference to the dictionary -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u65	I apologize, Ambassador Zlatuška, for the decency that we are discussing here is also to hear from my colleague, of course. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u66	There was a mention of dictionary significance. I would like to stress that the dictionary of the written language of the Czech cop says clearly brazenly. The moment I connect it to any other adjective, whether it's Gestapo or communist, it's gonna get ugly anyway. I would very much like to thank my colleague Fichtner for his speech. It was exactly what we should follow. We should live in a state governed by law and law, not ideology. In terms of ideology, what ODS President Petr Fiala said here, I would simply point out that, apart from those repressive elements, there was also one who was served by the repressive forces, which were the parties of the National Front, and from this point of view, the dispute of the Communists by the National Front at that time, versus someone who served the regime in uniform, seems to me at least strange even with that 25-year distance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u67	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. Another factual remark by Mr Tomio Okamura. After that, Mr. Faltýnek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. If anyone, under any regime, has laid a hand on anyone for opinions, it is absolutely condemned and absolutely unacceptable. Whoever it is and whoever it is. Of course, that's crazy, and it can never happen again. On the other hand, we are here in the House and we have an ambition to increase political culture and set an example. That's why different things can be named so that it's hard, forcefully, clearly, without freaking out, to be honest, but with adequate expressions. So, of course, I do not agree with the dictionary used here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Finally, I would add that in this discussion, when we are talking about the regime until 1989, and I myself am from a persecuted family, let us not forget that what caused the post-November regime here, when the country is completely stolen and indebted to the ears after 25 years, we should also stress, and of course others were involved in this after the November regime. And when I look at this duel tonight, basically everyone has some butter on their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u69	Thank you, Mr Okamur. With another factual remark, Mr Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u70	Have a nice noon, co-workers, co-workers. Only after the performance of my colleague Pavel Blažek do I have a joint request for all of us to endure it for two weeks before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u71	I thank Mr Faltýnek. If there is no further factual point, then with the proper application by Mr Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u72	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many have been said, you each have said what was needed. I waited almost an hour for my performance and there was a number of half truths and untruths. The Emergency Regiment of the National Security Corps was renamed after 1989, or in the spring of 1989, to a secondary police school. The task of a member of the Emergency Regiment of the National Security Corps was not to train for demonstrators. It was not to carry out the activities described here. The work of all members of the National Security Corps, who were included in the Emergency Regiment, and the National Security Corps' emergency regiment, passed at least ninety, if not ninety-five percent of all members of the National Security Corps, because it was the successor police school for members who performed a replacement military service in Frýdek-Místek and then studied basic legislation for the performance of their profession for a year and a half or a year. Traffic service, law enforcement, criminal activities and more. This school continued beyond 1989, even after 1990, and this school still works to this day. A similar school was also in Brno, a secondary police school which also works to this day, where they studied basic activities for the performance of a member of the National Security Corps already those elders who had after basic military service. So it's not true that the Public Security Emergency Regiment was part of any form of State Security. It was a police unit everyone went through. I quote almost all members of the National Security Corps, who remained in the ranks of the National Security Corps after 1989 and later the Police of the Czech Republic. There are many members who have been with me in these years, today they are members of the National Corps - sorry, Police of the Czech Republic, performing high positions in the police or in the state administration. I'm not going to name any of them because, of course, I don't want to hurt any of them. I know these colleagues, and I know they're professionals, and they're good guys. State security was a little different. Today, a wikipedia dictionary has already been mentioned, which, for the words of the cop, is generally crudely referred to as a member of the secret police, i.e. about a member of the state police, or brazenly as a person who says otherwise. Let me say this again: grossly as a member of the secret police or brazenly as a person who tells others. I've never been a member of State Security, I have a censure certificate. I've never turned anyone in, and if anyone says so, then let them prove it to me. So the concept of a cop in interpreting this term with reference to a wiki dictionary, and as mentioned here, it affects me. [[12.20 hours]] After 1989, respectively. after 1990 I remained in the ranks of the National Security Corps and later I was a police officer of the Czech Republic. I have nothing to be ashamed of every time I served. When I swore after a year in an emergency regiment, because at that time we were called. we weren't able to perform any activities until after a year we signed an oath, so I didn't swear to serve the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. When I signed a new oath to the National Security Corps - the Police of the Czech Republic, I did not swear to serve the Civil Democratic Party or other political entities. Like other members of the Security Corps and the Army of the Czech Republic, we have sworn to serve the citizens of this country. And that's what's left. In some of the debates that followed that statement, I read that this statement had to be applied to all those who served before 1989. I wonder whether - here I will commit one name and at the same time apologize to the colonel - whether we will call the communist cop Colonel Ivan Bílek, Director of the General Inspection of Security Corps, who served before 1989 and was a member of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. It has already been mentioned that there were many people at the Police Presidium who had this title. They had this past. It's offensive to me, you can transfer it any way you want. I repeat, I was not a co-worker of State Security. I'm able to document the illustration certificate. I might as well have a vote on which one of you has the National Security Bureau's clearance here. PT level - top secret? How many of you have it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u73	I beg you, Mr Member, to address the Members through me and vote only with a voting device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u74	Yes, I'm asking it as a rhetorical question. pétéčkový's clearance. PT. I can familiarize myself with NATO's plans when it comes to it, and I had access to them, to this classified information. This security clearance at the National Security Bureau took me 15 months. Are you saying it was mismanaged? Apparently, yes, because there is someone here who can insult this person in any factual discussion, when someone else has an opinion, and he will say that he will never take his views into account. So I ask in theory: Can I ever say something here as a man who served 23 years with the Police of the Czech Republic? Or these files? I think I've been cleared enough. Perhaps the problem may be that I have remained faithful to the people. What I promised, what I swore. And after my graduation, I became a member of the KSČM. That's probably my biggest problem. Because if I were to become a member of one of the other parties, then maybe I'd be a worthy sidekick. Unfortunately, I do not want to be like this and I will rather work on the side of Czech citizens and I will try to do so here in the Chamber of Deputies, whether anyone likes it or not. At the same time, I would point out that there was something similar in the past, it was mentioned here that only because someone was called a drunk, so there were apologies. I think the statement about the cop is offensive, which is why I demanded an apology. At the same time, I would like to say to you a brief thing that thanks to the mobilisation of certain people, I receive dozens and hundreds of disgusting e-mails that threaten to liquidate me physically. I've spoken to several of you, and I know that you may also receive similar emails for your attitude towards Ukraine, possibly. Something else. Do we really want to be like this? For this land to be, the land of the Chamber of Deputies, to be called the fourth price or lower price category of the inn type? I don't think so. There's more than half of us new. See the YES movement you came here because you want to change the political style. You want to change what's been here for 25 years. Then change it. Let's change that by changing our behavior. Maybe somebody's gonna be surprised and wonder what they're making up. I would just like to read a piece of the interview from November 4, 2010, 4:40 p.m. when Mr. Jiří Paroubek intersected the Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek on the submission of his proposal to the mandate and immune committee to whom he asked for an apology from Dr. Rath. The statements have been given. Miroslav Kalousek said in his reply, and I quote: "I believe that a certain type of behavior that characterized the House of the past period should be cut off right at the beginning of this parliamentary term. " We've had almost a year. Can we cut it out? This term may be in one quarter. It's up to you how you decide whether you want us to behave here or sublime and say it doesn't concern you. I just wanted to tell you that not all the things that are said here are true. Furthermore, I would like to thank Mr Blažek through the President that he alone - the only one - came to me and asked me how some things were in 1989. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for having a single interest in asking some questions. I wish you all a good day and decide according to your best knowledge and conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u75	I thank Mr Ondráček. I now have Mr Korte's factual comment, after which Mr Benešík's factual remark, with priority rights is signed by President Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I am somewhat surprised by Mr Ondráček's sensitivity. I got an e-mail from a Mr. Schellenberg last week, and it was said, and I quote, "You better die, you Jewish bastard!" This could rightfully affect me, for it is a swearing, with an extra racist subtext, and, on top of that, it is untrue. I don't care if someone thinks I'm an asshole, but I don't care if they call me a Jewish Bolshevik? I am a Roman Catholic, I was baptized two days after birth. I was born that month and that year, when the greatest mass murderer in the history of the 20th century died, Bolshevik Josif Visarionovič Džugašvili, called Stalin, also Bolshevik, exterminated another mass murderer, Klement Gottwald a month later. When the emergency regiment beat us up and spread us around Prague in 1989, and I also licked one, maybe it was from my colleague Ondráček, I don't know, and the fleeing crowd was running down Knight Street around the Klement Gottwald Museum, chanting "Museum of Killers!". To be as sensitive as Mr. Ondráček, I am filing a criminal complaint against Mr. Schellenberg. Mr. Ondráček was not shy about what he did. But woe, if anyone says he did so, and in some way characterizes and marks it. I would expect more discretion from Mr. Ondráček, more humility. As a Christian, yes, it is Christian to forgive, but forgiveness must prevent all repentance - and I have not heard any sign of humility and repentance in Mr Ondráček's speech. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u77	Mr Benešík, Mr Blažek, followed by Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm also getting emails because of Ukraine, but I suppose they have a little different content than e-mails that some other colleagues receive. As far as Mr Ondráček is concerned, I think it is obvious from what he said that he was in the wrong place at the wrong time those years ago. But I assume he was there voluntarily, knowing what he was getting into and what he was going to have to do there. And that's why I'd expect him to be a tough guy and take a cop. After all, we are in politics, and we need to be able to bear a little more than normal individuals. And just for comparison. If the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, should be dating every insult and invective from Mr Kalousek to the mandate and immunity committee, he may be meeting almost permanently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u79	Thank you, Mr Benešík. With another factual remark, Mr Blažek, followed by Mr Nykl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u80	Thank you for the floor. I'm just confirming. I was wondering how I saw the clip with Mr Ondráček, so I was wondering how propaganda was done at the time, because he was used there in the propaganda of the regime at the time, and I thank him for telling me completely openly, because it was beneficial and interesting for me. So much for that, and that's enough for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u81	I thank Mr Blažek. It's really enough. With another factual remark, Mr Nykl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u82	Good morning. Thank you for the floor. I have been observing Mr Kalousek for a long time as a very capable rhetoricist, and I acknowledge that he is a good rhetoricist. Still, I always wondered when there would be a situation where he would have to sit here on that bench that I wouldn't call news now, but as a stand of shame, because although he's a good rhetoricalist, he actually used words that I don't think belong in the House, or are words that drop at the House level. A colleague here has now mentioned some of the terms that have been used to address the Minister of Agriculture, where I certainly would not dare use the term naive pig pimp. I remember when he called Mr. Kala the president of the SAO a little monster for merely wanting to prove why some finances were forgiven. I remember when he said at the address of a Member who fought gambling when he said he was a jerk, but unfortunately no one was responsible for his IQ. And I remember, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, that in 2011, Prime Minister Nečas addressed you at the press conference and said that he was very concerned about following your verbal aggressive attacks, your childish attacks, but he said that he attributed it to great fatigue and that he was not angry with you. I'm not mad either, I'm just asking you to start metabolism a little bit, and maybe then your excellent rhetorical things will really move very high and we'll all appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u83	I thank Mr Nykl. With a factual remark, Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u84	I just want to talk about it, make it a little easier. That's one example from history. Word is a very strong thing and it can cause things. For example. I think that little is known when Mao Tung and Nikita Chruščov met in the 1950s and the purpose of their meeting was to continue with good Chinese-Soviet relations then. They didn't really understand each other, and Chruščov, which I read in his memoirs, then he regretted it so much, knocked the word rubber, he doesn't know that Mao tung, was one of the few words he knew, and it means condom. So when he was insulted like that, even though politicians then wondered what made it worse for Chinese-Soviet relations, paradoxically, that was the word that caused what it did between these then-powerful policies. And I want to say one thing. It's an interesting debate, but compared to what I said when a nuclear war almost threatened because of one word between these superpowers, I think we're actually dealing with basically still smiling things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u85	I thank Mr Blažek. With another factual remark, Mr Leoš Heger. I think he's already given priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u86	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say something, ladies and gentlemen, to moralize the members of the ANO Members, because we have heard, on the one hand, Mr Fichtner, who has justified that the form of attacking one fellow Member to another is inappropriate and, in fact, Mr Nykl repeated something similar. I would just say what, in the context of the Rules of Procedure on Tuesday, the debate on the amendments, was said here by Mr. fellow engineer Pilný: "Mr. Kalousek often tells us here that something will repeat to us twice, three times, a hundred times if necessary. Yes, if these ideas are not new, demagogy begins. I'm not gonna say what Grandma said about empty barrels." Well, that's ad personam too, please. I'll keep going. I think that somewhere at the beginning of the Chamber of Deputies, and Mr Laudát reminded it, he spoke of thinking: God or nature created us with two ends: we sit on one and think on the other. [[Messenger. Busy]] And it would finally be time for us to start using the right ending to think. If someone stands here and is unable to formulate a single clear thought in five or ten minutes, then it looks like ladies will forgive as if they walk through an exhibitionist park, eventually they will open the cloak and we will all shout, "Oh, that's small." - Fun on the YES side. I think you should look into your own ranks, as you speak here, before explaining why you voted on the mandate and immunity committee against Mr Kalousek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u87	Thank you, colleague Heger. President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u88	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering if I should perform, but the length and scope of the debate may leave me no choice. As much as I think it is perhaps the most pregnant Member, Mr Fichtner, who has made clear what is possible and what the Rules of Procedure allow us to do and what he is ordering us to do. In this context, I cannot remember my recent visit to Great Britain, when I had the opportunity to sit with my colleague in the lower chamber of the British Parliament, John Bercow, and in that relatively long debate, we also reached the issue of meeting management and any disciplinary measures available to the governing meetings in the UK. He told me that the British system allows a governing meeting, i.e. a spy, to be expelled from Parliament for a specified period of time in the event of inappropriate conduct by the Member concerned. It's a day, a week, or a month. And I asked him when he used it last. And he says, quite recently, when the MP said his colleague was lying. I said, well, we'd be sitting in Parliament for about three, because that's a thing that's used here a lot. [[entertainment in the hall]] He said, you know, we have something here in the UK called a non-voting dictionary. That's a pretty sophisticated system, and that's when someone uses an expression that's in a non-voting dictionary, so they apply this procedure to it and it's banished from the House. We have a different system, and we have a mandate and an immune committee. I can neither presend nor presume how the vote will turn out. I can only say that if my colleague Kalousek was a member of the lower chamber of the British Parliament, he would not go to work for at least a week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u89	Thank you, President Hamáček. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr. Minister of Culture Herman, after whom Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u90	Mr President, colleagues, I have also been a participant in Palachův's week. I didn't see my colleague Kalousek there, but of course that's not weird, because there were several thousand of us. But I had a personal experience also seeing with my own eyes the activities of an emergency regiment of the SNB, so I know my own. I report, like many of my previous speakers, to a higher political culture. I think that each of us by volunteering to enter politics, so we also voluntarily gave up a large part of our privacy. And people have every right to ruthlessly illustrate us, not only here in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in the kitchen, bedroom, behind the wheel, just everywhere. And if a person is polite in his privacy, he will probably be polite in his public life and vice versa. Anyway, we shouldn't insult and ridicule ourselves here. But to get back to the point. I think we are talking about a very serious subject here, and that is the question of dealing with the past. I would take the liberty of quoting from the preamble to Act No. 198/1993 Coll., on the legality and opposition of the Communist regime, because this preamble very well defines the framework in which we are moving. Parliament then agreed on this law of the Czech Republic: "Awareness of the duty of the freely elected Parliament to deal with the communist regime, Parliament notes that the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, its leadership and its members are responsible for the way of government in our country between 1948 and 1989, in particular for the programme destruction of the traditional values of European civilization, for the conscious violation of human rights and freedoms, for moral and economic decline, accompanied by judicial crimes and terror against the holders of different opinions, by replacing a functioning market economy with directive management, the destruction of traditional principles of property law, the abuse of education, science and culture for political and ideological purposes and the reckless destruction of nature." Those are the words of the law, and I fully apply to them. On the other hand, I realize that every person, if he is on this earth, has the right to evolve and have the right to make his own turnover. As a long-time confessor, I also know mine. And even as director of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, and I have already talked about it here, I have had the opportunity, and I very much appreciate the fact that people who sometimes had a very, let's say, question marks of the past and wanted to read their lives with me. There really is a possibility of conversion, and we can't deny it to anyone. On the other hand, if someone is elected to the Chamber of Deputies for the Communist Party, he is obviously applying, and finally, my colleague Ondráček has said so here about the continuum of his life. And he should also bear a sharper view of himself, because, as I said, by entering politics, we took this risk voluntarily. I also claim the continuity of my life, and as it has been said here that someone calls me a black ass, he doesn't really lift me out of his chair. I think that colleague Ondráček should act like a man and take back his complaint. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u91	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a point of fact, I apologise with a priority right, with a factual remark from Mr Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u92	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'm sorry. I figured I couldn't get to the proper term, so I'll cut it short in two minutes. As a journalist, I often wrote about the fact that when the cameras are targeted by the MPs, every ugly guy who had slept before gets up, swings his hands or interferes with his fifth over nine speech just to be seen on TV, even on the evening news. We've witnessed it. I'm not doing that. [[A round of applause across the political spectrum.]] Well, there you go. Maybe every politician will go crazy after all, even though I thought I was immune to it. Maybe it'll happen to us all. I wanted to draw attention to the nature of the faith Mr Kalousek is applying to. The essence is expressed by the words "who you are without guilt, raise the stone" The essence is expressed in the words "do not judge and you will not be judged. " If Mr Kalousek were to refer to svatý Pavel's beliefs, he would have to call him a murderer's servant, or even a humiliated murderer's servant, because he refused the possibility that someone might change, that his life might change completely. I think that, in terms of what colleague Fichtner said and what is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kalousek has really offended colleague Ondráček and there is no doubt about it. At the same time, however, I say that I will vote against the punishment of Mr Kalousek, because I think that those who abuse freedom of speech should not be punished, but we should treat them with a light, very slight contempt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u93	I thank Mr Komárek. Now with priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u94	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, because time is coming, after all, to respond to some of the comments that have been made in the debate. If I were a Member of the British Parliament, through Mr Vice-President, I do not believe that this problem exists here at all, because some people simply could not sit here. First of all. Two. I am strongly opposed to what has been said here several times, and I really must say that it offends me, even if I do not complain about it with the mandate and immune committee that I am campaigning with this case. I can still understand Mr Ondráček, if he felt offended that he was complaining. But please, nicely, I was not the one who, as a member of the mandate and immunity committee, addressed the question of whether or not to deal with it - because it is not true that the mandate committee has to impose something, the mandate committee also has to say that it is such a small thing that we are not going to deal with it at all. This isn't what the mandate committee did, and then the members here are like, "and now we have to deal with this little crap for you guys." Please, nicely, that is the decision of the members of the mandate and immunity committee. Mr Mihola turned against me not to say the government coalition. Of course, I can say some members of the government coalition, but the government coalition has a majority in the mandate and immunity committee, which means that its decision, by the will of the government coalition, has been decided against whether it is a small matter that will not be dealt with, or whether it is a serious matter, and the mandate and immune committee will punish me. You've considered this to be a serious matter. I do not agree with this decision, and I refer to the Chamber of Deputies. But it really wasn't me who triggered it, colleagues from the mandate and immunity committee. At least I'm asking for this understanding. The fundamental question was said well by Mr Fichtner. It's an objective insult, isn't it? Yes, for a lot of people I'd tell, and they wouldn't have this professional history behind them, that would be an insult, and I would have to apologize. But I told the man who beat people for their opinions with a baton. So I understand he's offended because he thinks he's been doing an honest job. I understand that if Members of the mandate and immunity committee think that they have done an honest profession, they necessarily see this as an insult. But again, the people I belong to consider it extremely insulting, and forgive me, frankly impertinent, when a person who beat people up in 1989 for their opinion calls for public apology for naming a communist cop. And they consider it offensive and inappropriate when the mandate and immune committee gives him the truth that it really is an insult. [[12.50 hours]] Please, it's a conflict of opinion. This is not a disguised talk of decency, but you just don't want it, and I've said some reasons why, you just don't want the past to be interpreted in any way, because you have a very warm relationship with people of this type. I would like to say to Mr Ondráček that it is not true that I said that I will never take his views into account. I will never take his views into account as to whether or not repressive elements should be under parliamentary control, because the November Revolution brought the very advantage, apart from many others, that repressive elements have come under parliamentary political control. Mr Ondráček here was verbally defending himself against this, and at that moment it seemed very clear to me that some views are simply not changing and that what Mr Ondráček here today defends verbally was defended by Mr Hardrek in his hand 25 years ago. It wasn't self-serving, it wasn't meant to offend, it was meant to point out the historical parallel that some of you want to forget. And it's not true what Mr. Kováčik here said, at least from my point of view, that we're dealing with the past here. We're dealing with the future here. We are dealing with the future here, because, as we interpret this past - and we seem to have extreme difficulties with it - as we interpret this past, it will fundamentally affect our future. Germany went through a very hard time with it, but it did manage its denacification. We obviously didn't make it through our deboshing. [[Weak applause from the right side of the courtroom.]] From your performances, gentlemen, it's quite obvious. Some of you wanted to make it easy, some of you wanted to rename it what's going on. But this is really nothing more than how we interpret our past and how we're going to ask ourselves today and every day how it could have happened then, and we can never let that happen again. That means we can never let anything else stop naming things by their real names. And I just named it by my real name. Some people don't like it, some people like it, but objectively, it can't be recognized for insulting them. No way. When I see Mr. Zlatuška, I would like to stand before him once more for all the athletes, all the gardeners who were organized in the Czechoslovak Union of Physical Education, all those who received chocolates for Christmas because they were in the trade unions, there simply wasn't one organization that could be anywhere other than the National Front. All of them were members of the National Front, and neither the Socialist Party nor the People's Party had a leading role in the Constitution, and the Communist Party had its beating heart, in which Mr Ondráček also served. And you, who are close to the old folks, can easily ask them that a regular folklore had it much more difficult at work and at school than a non-scorer, because he simply demonstrated that he was a Marxist. And I'm just defending them, I don't need to stand up for myself, nor am I going to complain about Mr. Mr. Zlatuška for calling me a helper. Maybe I can also see it offensively. But I don't think Zlatuška can offend me. It would probably be fair to say what we're going to vote on. We will actually vote on how we want to interpret the past. We will vote on how we see that time just before 1989. We will vote on whether we were beaten up by communist cops for our views, or whether members of the National Security Corps were heroically faced by a ferocious crowd armed with homemade dice and knitting needles. Members of the mandate and immunity committee have said their views on this, and I think it is very interesting and it will be a significant signal, a significant signal for the public, what the House of Deputies will say about this. Our vote will have no effect on whether I apologize or not. If I apologize, I'd insult the crowds of people that Communist cops tortured and ruined their lives. I'd insult my father, insult my grandfather. I just can't do that, and I believe that at least some of you will understand me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u95	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr Komárek announced that he was withdrawing his proposal, the same was done by Mr Laudát. Mr Andrle has a factual point. Please note that if we fail to vote within 13 hours, I will have to interrupt that point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to this debate for at least an hour, and since I am from a family that has also been affected by the Communist regime, and no one has apologized to our family for my father being in prison three times and I was forced to be a laborer after graduating from college, which therefore strengthened me, did not hurt me in quotes, so I wanted to appeal to the disabled here so that we would not have to discuss it anymore. Because I'm stressing again that no one has apologized to us either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u97	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u98	I can fit myself within the time limit of the Member, it is no longer possible through the President, I am not dealing with any dispute that I have with Mr Ondráček. I have no quarrel with Mr Ondráček. I, before the Chamber of Deputies, deal with my dispute with members of the mandate and immunity committee, Zlatuška, Fichtner, Tejc, Chvojka, whether it was simply Mr Ondráček who was a comrade of the SNB emergency regiment or a communist cop. We're simply dealing with this dispute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u99	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Andrle, after which Mr Zlatuška... So, Mr. Mr. Zlatuška, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u100	While I, Mr President, have information from Mr Kalousek that I can say anything about him and can never be offended, I will not. I just want to turn against his interpretation. It wasn't what he said. It deforms reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u101	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. If no one else is reporting for the debate, then I am done with the debate. I wonder if Mr Kalousek wants to conclude. He doesn't want to. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the mandate and immunity committee, Mr Vondráček, take the floor - so that there is no mistake - and I ask him to make the above proposals, of which I have the proposal of the President of the KSČM. [[with emphasis on "V']] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u102	Well, thank you for your word. I'm just here to see my colleagues on the mandate and immunity committee - we meant well, as always. First of all, I would suggest that a resolution be voted on, which results from the withdrawal of the appellant, that resolution of the mandate and immunity committee No 1 is repealed. 82 of 16 September 2014 I would then propose that, in the event that it is not adopted, vote on the resolution that: The Chamber of Deputies confirms the provisions of § 16 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 82. And then I would vote on the accompanying resolution, the text of which was proposed by the President of the KSČM. To put it simply, we should start treating each other politely here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u103	Thank you for suggesting this procedure. Does anyone object to the procedure? There's no objection, there's only an application for a check-out. So I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards, and I will ask the rapporteur for a motion for a first resolution on which I will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u104	"The Chamber of Deputies repeals Resolution No. 82 of 16 September 2014.';
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u105	Thank you. It is a resolution proposed by Mr Kalousek, who appealed to the Chamber of Deputies. I'm asking if everyone understands what they're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 225 vote. 117 Members and Members registered, for 47, versus 34. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u106	I now propose that the resolution be voted on: "The Chamber of Deputies confirms the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee No. 82 of 16 September 2014.';
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u107	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 226. Registered 114 Members, for 33, versus 41. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Please, Mr Stanjura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u108	I would ask those who want Mr Kalousek to apologize and therefore vote against his motion for a resolution or abstain, which, in the end, is exactly the same so as not to be ashamed of it and vote in favour of the committee's confirmation. Because this is an absurd situation where those who are happy and think that a communist cop is an insult are afraid. Don't worry, we're not going to push you to the mandate and immunity committee for this. But don't put us in an absurd situation that you're not willing to confirm your opinion from vote number one by voting number two, and now we have no decision. That's an alibi and hypocritical attitude, nothing else!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u109	I thank Mr Stanjur. Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u110	Unfortunately, I am afraid that is not the case, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President. Perhaps some colleagues believe that, as a smart mountaineer, they did not actually express themselves, which did nothing but to maintain the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee. We have simply not adopted any resolution, so the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee remains in force, which you have not repealed - in my opinion, to the shame of this House. And to the eternal shame of the mandate and immunity committee, for this resolution will be archived. And Madam President of the mandate and immunity committee through Mr President - allow me to announce to you absolutely bindingly that I do not have to send it in writing: I will not apologize for the opinion of some members of the government coalition who believe that the Communist cop must not be called a cop, I will not apologize for that word, and I am prepared to bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u111	I thank Mr Kalousek. We are in procedure, so now we will vote on the third resolution proposed by Mr President... [[Mr Kalousek argues that it is unvoting. Voices from the O.R.]] I'm sorry. President Kováčik has proposed a resolution. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u112	Thank you for the floor. For the sake of clarity, there is something to vote for, because I did not say in any way that this was an accompanying resolution. And in my second entry, specifying that I insist that this motion for a resolution should be voted on in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u113	Mr Kalousek, Mr Vondráček after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u114	I am happy to believe that Mr Kováčik presented it this way. I have not protested because the rapporteur has formulated this as an accompanying resolution. As an accompanying resolution, this would be a vote if a resolution had been adopted. As an unaccompanied resolution, as a resolution on the point, it is, in my opinion, unvoteable, because the point is nothing more than whether the Chamber of Deputies will confirm or repeal the decision of the mandate and immunity committee on Miroslav Kalousek. And although the debate was very tumultuous, it does not make it possible to vote on resolutions on another subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u115	I am sorry, but this is the mandate of the rapporteur of the mandate and immunity committee. And he's the one who's making the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u116	I wonder if I could use a few words. I will quote the provisions of § 16 para. 2. "The House shall decide, after the debate, to confirm, amend or revoke the disciplinary measure and to suspend or repeal the proceedings and to refer the matter back to further proceedings." So we only decide on the appeal of Mr Kalousek. That's a territorial decision, and I don't think we can accept others as territorial. That's why I called it accompanying. It's procedural... It's basically an appeal, a trial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u117	This is the proposal of the rapporteur on the mandate and immunity committee. If any of you object to this motion, please bring it forward and put it to a vote on the objection. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u118	It is because, as the point is called, I object to this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u119	That's an objection. I will vote on this objection without debate. I am opening the vote on this objection. Whoever is in favour of accepting the objection, raise your hand and press the button. Who opposes the adoption of this objection? It's vote number 227. 106 Members of Parliament registered. For 36, against 50. Objection has not been accepted. That is why we have not adopted a resolution on this point. The motion for a resolution has not been approved and I am ending this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-003-179.u120	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want to say, welcome, you few, but loyal. Let me first read the apologies at the beginning of today's interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Government. Mr Martin Plíšek apologizes today from 14.30 for work reasons. Furthermore, Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes today from 18:00 to the rest of the day on personal grounds. Mr Jan Klán also apologizes from 18:00 for personal reasons for the rest of the day. Mrs Jitka Chalánková apologises from 14.30 to 18 for personal reasons.
