ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 87/1995 Coll., on savings banks and credit cooperatives and certain measures related to this and supplementing the Czech National Council Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, as amended, /German press 253/ - First reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 There is a proposal for this bill to be discussed pursuant to § 90 para. 2. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, honourable Member -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u3	Vice-President, Mr. Secretary. What is not may be, but so far vice-chairman, but thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u4	I'm sorry. I read the lyrics here, so I didn't realize it, and then I ran along the way. [[He's laughing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending the Act on savings and lending cooperatives and certain related measures contains seven measures that respond to the current situation in the cooperative base sector, in particular the increase in risks in the sector itself and consequently the risks to the deposit guarantee fund. These risks are illustrated by last year's withdrawal of the authorisation of the Metropolitan Savings Association, which was the largest entity on the market, and also the recent withdrawal of the authorisation of WPB Capital. Individual measures were prepared by the Ministry of Finance in close cooperation with the Czech National Bank and some of them are based on recommendations of an in-depth assessment of the Czech financial sector by the International Monetary Fund. The draft law limits the size of the cooperative reserve by introducing ceilings for their balance sheet total of CZK 5 billion. The effectiveness of this measure is proposed from 1 January 2018 and will thus provide the market with sufficient time to take adequate measures. One can be the transformation into a universal bank. If the cooperative reserve chooses this solution by the end of 2015, it will be able to obtain a bank licence under a lower capital requirement regime at the equivalent level of EUR 5 million thanks to the second proposed measure. To raise capital to the standard CZK 500 million required by banks, such a cooperative reserve will have a period of five years. The third proposed measure is the introduction of a double contribution of the cooperative reserve to the deposit guarantee fund. Fourthly, an increase in the compulsory payment of part of the profit after tax to the venture fund. For these two measures, the effectiveness is proposed from 1 January 2015. The proposal further specifies the subject of the cooperative business by proposing the amount of credit granted to a member, an economically linked group of members or family members of CZK 30 million. This clarification will be effective from 1 January 2018, allowing the market to take adequate measures. Furthermore, the draft law does not allow the provision of products and services to cooperative persons who are not members of it, with effect from 1 January 2015. The proposal also substantially strengthens the involvement of the members of the cooperative base on the functioning of the campelette itself. With effect from 1 January 2018, the minimum amount of the basic member contribution must be at least CZK 1000. Given that such a low amount would not constitute sufficient interest for the members of the cooperative, it is further combined with the rule that the deposit of a member to whom interest or similar benefit is paid must not exceed 10 times the sum of their basic contribution and the additional member contribution. This rule will be applied differently for existing and new deposits. For existing deposits, the proposal is expected to be effective from 1 January 2018, in addition, in a modified form, which will prevent the possible flow of resources from the sector. For new deposits, the efficiency shall be determined as from 1 July 2015. Finally, let me just say that the material presented may have a marginal impact on the state budget and other public budgets. The possible impact is given by the fact that the Member State and its organisational units, local authorities or other bodies governed by public law will have to make a new contribution if they remain members of the cooperative reserve even after the Act has become effective. Furthermore, I will add that the bill is in accordance with the law of the European Union and the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of my arguments, I ask you to give your consent to the bill's proposal at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u5	I thank the Minister for his words. Now, I ask that the rapporteur come to the speaker's counter for first reading, Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u6	Pleasant July afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me add the words of the petitioner and point you in some detail to the problems associated with this proposal. When I say problems, of course, I suggest that the proposal raises some discussions, of which it is probably first and foremost, and it is understandable, they are concerns from the campels themselves, cooperative workers, members of these cooperative bases, which may have also referred to you with a certain reference where they express their opinion, and they are sorry that this view has not yet been sufficiently discussed. But, as I observe on the right-handed colleagues who seem ready to veto this law under Section 90, I assume that there will be a certain opportunity in the bodies of this House to discuss these matters, perhaps without harm, in some final form, to discuss the proposal at all. [[opposition Members are flocking to the ODS and TOP 09 benches]] He has his objective logic because, of course, the situation in the field of cooperative credit was not and is not easy. I don't want to do long historical excursions here, but the truth is, when this form of funding was renewed after 1989, I suspect that the law was dated to 1995, there was a big and not exactly a double regulated boom. Very soon, there were a number of campers that managed not a large amount of the balance sheet of our financial sector, but managed it in a way that did not only avoid the banking crisis from the late 1990s, but it could be said that it was rampant in an unthinned, rather large extent. The problem is, and you can only compare it with such simple numbers that in 1999 we had 138 cooperative bases in the Czech Republic. Ten years ago, it's 2004, there's already been considerably fewer, only 33. And it could be said that, after the regulatory functions were strengthened, the supervision of the Czech National Bank was integrated into the supervision of the cooperative depositaries, we adopted the relevant laws along with the entry into the European Union, which introduced some strictness in this segment, so still continues the problematic development. Today there are only 11 of them, and even the 11 show certain features, which, in particular, the supervisory authority, i.e. the Czech National Bank, have led to the fact that it has seized the instruments that are normally available and wants them in relatively harsh form, that is to say and to admit, in hard form apply to cooperative depositaries. I do not want to discuss the extent to which the quality of the regulatory environment, the quality of regulation, and the degree of liability of the supervisory institution, i.e. the CNB, is to blame for the current state of cooperative credit. Of course, the campers say that there is part of the blame on the CNB's side, and that if they worked with gradual, factual steps, that some problems could be contained. I don't know. The truth is that the International Monetary Fund report, which was here two years ago, was quoted here and said something about it. And the truth is that today's state of cooperative property is kind of a hybrid state. In a foreign country, if you look, for example, there are still about a thousand cooperative bases in Germany. It is a common form, for example, in Ireland, Britain. But there's a little bit of a different function and a different form. And if we're missing something from the conceptual, strategic point of view, it's to make it clear which way this form of funding should go for the future. [[15.20 hours]] Because the hybrid state may not last long, it doesn't make sense for it to go on like this, but it's supposed to be some kind of microforms of self-help financing, as it is very often elsewhere in the world, because the large financial houses that you know historically, the history of Raiffeisen etc. eventually transformed into a standard and relatively large bank. So I guess we don't need to go this way, we don't want to, and if this segment is supposed to look like something in the future, let's tell each other where. But now we're in a situation where we're dealing with a specific problem. The specific problem, which is the situation in the remaining 11 credit unions. The problem, of course, has some economic dimension, and it has to be said here that it is not big. About 3/4 percent, or if you want some 60-70 per mile of the entire financial sector represents this segment. This is not much, but if other and other campels are to get into trouble, it will not boost the Czech economy, certainly not, nor the financial sector, but it will mean, in addition to the impact on clients, the cooperative impact on the deposit guarantee fund, which, of course, must, and so legislation is now set, to cover everything regarding standard limits, as well as a normal bank. Historically, I remember that it was 80 percent of the deposit relatively small, then it grew to 90, today we're at 100 percent to 2 million. koruna, or converted into euro, as you like. The deposit guarantee fund is an institution financed by private banks. They're putting in the dues, there's an accumulation of reserves, and that reserve is now reaching, if I have correctly noted, somewhere around 28-30 billion. The balance sheet sum, i.e. the dimension of what is stored and managed in campels, is about 40 billion. They may not all fall there, but the truth is that especially for the largest is a significant proportion of problematic loans, on average for the whole segment it is around 1/3, and the adjustments, and that is important, the adjustments of course only reach a fraction of this amount. The representatives of this sector themselves recognise that something needs to be done, that some tightening up needs to be adopted, but it is about the seven measures that, at what pace, if the transitional provisions are well set, etc., etc. That could be the point of discussion, if it is called upon by colleagues by bringing in Section 90. For example, it may be a problem to transform campels into ordinary banks. There is a given time period, but the transformation is started by granting a license. Whoever you have ever touched on the licensing process of the Czech National Bank to a financial institution, you may find that it is not an easy matter to fit into the time interval. I do not want to bring up the courts, but it is definitely worth discussing, at least for discussing with representatives of campels and then gentlemen on Příkopy, or after all on Karmelitská Street. One of the problems. Another problem there is the limitation of the lending of its own members. That amount of $30 million means basically that the campels focus on small cases, small parts. That may be logical, after all, it's supposed to be an instrument of microfinance, so they're probably not going to finance Temelín, that's logical. They themselves say that the smaller cases also mean a problem with cover, and thus a certain degree of risk of these credit operations. I add, of course they don't say that, often there is the problem that they lend themselves. This means that there is a certain link between the management of these small banks and the loans provided. Perhaps we could discuss the topic of distinguishing this ceiling by the size of a specific campel girl, because of course the differences between the largest and the smallest are quite significant, and if you put a flat rule there, of course there may be a problem. What's interesting is that what bothers them is the ceiling of ten times the interest in deposits. Maybe it's the most sensitive place, maybe there's a structure somewhere, a client portfolio, and self-crediting. But I'm sure this is worth discussing. All of this suggests what kind of trouble they may be hiding there. I don't know which one of you is in conflict of interest. So I don't have the money in a camper, I have to say, now that I'm talking about it, but even if it doesn't have a national economic dimension, I think it's only going to be a good thing if we can work this out. It can even be done in such terms, so that in September we can continue on the soil of the House's diaper above this law. So much for my role as rapporteur and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u7	I thank Mr Dolejš for the clear and brief news report. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura with priority rights now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u8	I think the rapporteur has linked the news report to his discussion. He was probably afraid that it would be not only at first reading, but without debate. He was afraid for nothing. On behalf of two MPs, ODS and TOP 09, I would like to raise the veto for a hearing pursuant to § 90 para. 2, inter alia, in order to give us room for discussion in the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u9	I thank Mr Stanjur. I'm registering the veto. With another proper application, Mr Votava is registered. After that, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would also like to make a few comments on this material, on the campels. Notes will be very consistent with what the rapporteur has already said, but I think that is okay. Currently, the Association of Cooperatives has 11 campels, or, if you like, cooperative bases. It must be said that the rapporteur has already said that our campels are a little atypical, unlike those to the west of us, Germany and beyond, working with larger amounts of finance. We have heard that there are a thousand such campels in Germany, so there are 11, there were more of them, of course, but after the problems that were, their number decreased. I would not see the intention of this amendment, as some may be pushing, in doing, to eliminate this segment of the financial market. It's when they say there's something cooperative, some of them have a history of socialism, but I don't know why we should question cooperativeism as such. Of course, everything must have its rules and everything must comply with the law. I think that the principle of this amendment is, of course, to introduce a stronger regulation of cooperative bases, if you like, campels, because it is really after the excesses that have been here, very much needed. Let's remember the last case of the Metropolitan Reserve, or whatever the camper was called. That took 12 billion to pay. CZK from the hedge fund, but it's not just about the payout, it's about the fund, of course. It's about the problems that the depositors, members and campers had with it. Although, on the other hand, it must be said that everyone must consider where he puts his money. It's perfectly clear that he's doing business with his money, putting it in a camper, into a bank, doing business with his money. Unfortunately, it often worked in campels, of course, so that thoughtless loans, sometimes I would say that thoughtful, but in a different sense, it was just related persons, friends, it was me on my brother's system, my brother on me, and then, of course, the campel girl got into clear problems when she didn't pay up and often lost the permission of the Czech National Bank. So if anyone says the campers had problems with the Czech National Bank's guilt from inconsistent supervision, then that may be part of the truth, perhaps, but not the truth, probably complete. [[15.30 hours]] From what is stated in the law, I think that, of course, some things can be completely agreed with, some of which may be slightly suspended. The balance sheet sum, which is limited by five billion crowns, I think it's okay. Of course, there's a question then, if the balance sheet sum is more than five billion, then what about it. There are, of course, several possibilities for the campel to transform into a bank. I think, and I think the rapporteur also said that the time limit of one year, probably too adequate given all the processes that must take place, is probably not appropriate, I would have spoken in two years. But that, of course, is a question of debate. There is certainly an increase in the contribution of those cooperative contributions to the deposit guarantee fund. Of course, banks often pointed to this. The Kampelička is more risky than the bank, you will certainly recognise it, and this riskiness for the campels needs to be expressed precisely by contributing more to the deposit guarantee fund. Although I don't know if the double's too small. Maybe it should be more, but that's a question for discussion. Furthermore, there is the limit of granting credit to one member of the campel girl in total up to CZK 30 million. They usually give credit to the campers, aside from those friends and what I said about those related people, they give it to more or less businessmen or small businessmen. But the question is whether the 30 million crowns, in some cases, are not enough, would it be worth raising to 50 million? But that's a question of debate again. I wouldn't want to add to the risk, but I think we could discuss this in some way. Consider that often even for a good project, a small businessman does not catch on with the bank and, of course, with the campel girl, the possibility of obtaining such a loan if he is a member is. Increasing the membership contribution to a thousand crowns, I think there's also some possible incentive measure, even though a thousand crowns is a thousand crowns, it's not a hundred thousand crowns, but even that... So there's a number of questions. Ninety have been arrested, so there will certainly be room in the Committee on Budgets to discuss all these matters thoroughly so that, as I said, the risk of this segment has been reduced, the protection of members, depositors and there is no need - but I do not think that we should come to some liquidation of this segment of financial services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u11	I thank Mr Votav. Now with priority rights, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. After that, Mr. František Laudát. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u12	Thank you. Dear Members, I am a little surprised by the veto that has been tabled here for the rapid discussion of this amendment to the Act on Savings and Credit Cooperatives, because we have included this law at an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, not because it would be some political priority that the coalition parties have agreed on purely on the basis of political priorities, not because we should have it in our electoral programme, but because the Czech National Bank has, in recent months, made an urgent effort to do so as a regulator in this area, as the one who carries out financial supervision of the cooperative market in order to approve this amendment. With the fact that the approval of this amendment has, of course, a significant impact on the stabilisation of this part of the financial market. So I remind you that the government's presentation of the amendment is not a coincidence. It's not a coincidence that we presented her to an emergency meeting. There is a high and high urgency in time, and if the veto was given here, I would ask that the deadline for this amendment be shortened to a maximum and approved as soon as possible. I want to remind you that the amendment should have been submitted a long time ago. I want to remind you that we've had a year or two when a whole series of cooperative accounts went bankrupt. There will be a huge contribution from the deposit guarantee fund, where the funds have been concentrated over the past few years, and frankly, ladies and gentlemen, they have not been sent there by the credit unions, but they have been sent by the entire banking sector. I think it would be wrong for this House to hold back the negotiation of a very urgent amendment to the Savings and Loan Cooperatives Act. I consider the whole situation around the savings and credit cooperatives to be urgent. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that I have asked the Governor of the Czech National Bank to provide the Government with complete information on what has happened in recent years in the cooperative-based sector, which sees weaknesses in regulation as set out in the current legislation, and at the same time I asked him to inform us about how the issue of deposit guarantee fund and deposit guarantee fund is developing. I would also like to draw attention to what my previous speakers have already mentioned. In my opinion, there are weaknesses in the supervision of the functioning of cooperative bases. A few years ago, we canceled the Agency for the Supervision of Cooperatives and entrusted the supervision of the Central Bank's cooperative reserves in anticipation of the full professional performance of banking supervision, as was the case in the banking sector. And I think that we need to get clear answers from the central bank that took place in the cooperative-based sector, why there was a series of collapses in cooperative-based accounts, and why the massive amount of funds that were deposited in the deposit-guarantee fund were being drawn up. In summary, underlined, the Government wants to address this situation, and at the same time I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to speed up the discussion of this amendment. We put her in an emergency meeting precisely because we consider it important for the new rules to apply here as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u13	I thank the Prime Minister and ask if I should take that as a proposal to shorten the deadline, his speech, please. No. Thank you. With another proper application, Mr Laudát is registered, but with priority rights he was preceded by Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u14	I'd like to answer why we're vetoing this. First of all, we don't like it. 2. Secondly, let us try to make statistics on the proposals submitted by the government in this parliamentary term under this paragraph, the final version, and how many amendments were made by the government and the government MEPs. And we're not saying it's wrong, I'm just saying that there's almost always something else that's good to fix, edit, or add or reduce, as it was in the Czech Railways Act. [[unintelligible]] Here I could name all the other cases where, in the end, there was an improvement in the law on the part of the government coalition. It's nothing we do on purpose, no obstruction. And I think we're gonna agree to cut the deadline. When it's approved at the September meeting, nothing happens, the world doesn't stop. The rapporteur spoke of the impact on the national economy as a whole. I don't want to repeat it. So please don't think of it as purpose. Both the President of the Committee on Budgets and the rapporteur draw attention to some of the problems that still need to be discussed. None of them said there was something wrong. And that's it. I was counting on the rapporteur to say, after his report, that it would be useful, he relied on us to end the debate. So it's nothing on purpose, it's nothing that, I think, doesn't threaten the interests of the Czech Republic. The debate on this law will undoubtedly be substantive, maybe even quick. There may not be any change, but those two months tops, I think, will not bring us any great loss fortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u15	I thank Mr Stanjur. Mr. Prime Minister with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. I would really advocate a shortening of the deadline for discussing this bill so that we do the duty we are to respond as legislators in a situation where the responsible institutions, such as the Czech National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, the Czech National Bank, as the one exercising supervision, the Ministry of Finance, as the one responsible for the legislation in question, ask the Chamber of Deputies, in an accelerated reading, to discuss the proposal. I understand that Members have a regular requirement for them to be able to make amendments and to prepare themselves for this. However, this also allows for a reduction to some reasonable deadline so that, for example, we can get to second and third reading at the September meeting and we can approve this bill. [[15.40 hours]] I just want to remind you that I was performing in this Chamber of Deputies at the end of the last parliamentary term. I spoke to the Czech National Bank's report on supervision of the financial market and warned the Governor of the Czech National Bank about the situation in the cooperative base sector and reminded here the case of the Unibon cooperative reserve, which at that time went bankrupt, which worked mainly in the Moravian-Silesian Region and which was linked to the business structures there in a way that eventually led to its collapse. At that time, I spoke in the Chamber of Deputies and drew attention to this problem, and I also asked the Governor of the Central Bank to pay maximum attention to this area. And I must say that I am very sorry that it took so long for us to get here to the Chamber of Deputies a specific legislative solution that responds to the unsatisfactory situation of the cooperative sector. So that is also one of the reasons why I came here today - because I was here at the end of the last parliamentary term just in a situation where we were dealing with the central bank's activities in terms of supervision of the credit unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Laudát is now duly signed up, followed by Mr Volný. And now it's real. With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u18	It's just to show that the debate doesn't have to be so heated. Take a look at the bill and I'm quoting an article to you. 3 which is called účinnost. It does not say that it is effective immediately after approval after it comes out in the Collection of Laws. This Act shall take effect on 1 January 2015, with the exception of the provisions of Article 4 (1) (a), (b) and (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Today is July 17th. The proposed effectiveness of the government bill is 1 January, i.e. In 5.5 months, and we're hearing that we should approve today so that we don't cause any delays. So if the government thinks so, it will suggest that the law takes effect at the moment it comes out in the Collection of Laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u19	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now for the sixth time, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first to Prime Minister Sobotka. After he doesn't show up here, and processors and promoters of the Civil Service Act are unable to answer one single question, I find it inappropriate for him to call on us here to say that we may have something to do if something doesn't get discussed quickly. It's just a fact, Prime Minister... Then you tell us something even from your travels to Brussels... Seriously, stop it. This isn't decent behavior. To your own law. I was just about to point out that there is some kind of efficiency. TOP 09 will most likely support this law. Why did the veto fall? We really want him to remain calm and properly discussed in the Committee on Budgets, because so far we have experience that what the coalition has pushed here quickly and in the first reading has proved in a number of cases that it is as leaky as a colander. So that's why. However, a closed budget committee meeting took place here in this room, where the CNB informed us about the problems of savings banks and credit cooperatives. During the reign of Petr Nečas, work began to solve these problems in line with the national bank. The government has ended, I don't understand why Rusnokův's government, which has not recently forgotten to praise itself and praise itself, left it lying somewhere. I take it the Treasury just swept some corners and found this material there, and it's being pushed into this emergency meeting. However, as far as my own law is concerned, I believe that, in principle, it is absolutely right. The set parameters must be said rather by the national bank. I am only worried about the pressure of lobbyists around credit and savings cooperatives, so that they don't accidentally start breaking down some of the Members here, that this should be enlarged atp. The whole history of savings and credit cooperatives is unfortunate, but unfortunately, if I cut it short, these campers did not fulfil the purpose for which they were founded, and their depositors unfortunately always patronize the state and our institutions that they want compensation. And if some of their funds have reached such a size that then it is also a problem for possible payment of refunds, then I think they should follow the rules that apply to banking houses. So I haven't found any fundamental problems yet. So if there is not yet some minor adjustment in the Committee on Budgets, we will support such regulation in this case. I did not understand the President of the Committee on Budgets. You want to regulate where what. Where I think it deserves caution, because it's citizens' money, so suddenly maybe somebody's gonna start grinding it or not, I don't know, I didn't quite get the gig. But once again, I call on the Prime Minister to leave these innuendoes alone. Section 90 is intended for exceptional legislative emergencies. The government must have gotten away with it. It's a government proposal. So you don't read it, you don't know what efficiency you put there. Well, that makes me wanna stand still.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u21	I thank Mr Laudát. With a point of fact, first Minister Babiš, after him Mr Votava. [[Minister Babiš is coming to the microphone.]] Sorry, you've been duly logged in, Mr Volný, with a proper application from the MP... [[Minister Babiš wants to free up the pitch.]] No, Minister, you have the floor. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u22	Thank you. I would just like to assure Mr Laudát through the Vice-President that we did not really find this at the Ministry. That we discussed this intensely. And the negotiations with the Czech National Bank were countless and we had different opinions about it. I personally dealt with the Governor twice to find a compromise. So we've done an honest job. And of course, it's important to say things - and then drag them to the end. And there's a big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u23	Thank you, Minister. With another factual remark, Mr Votava, who was duly registered by Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, I didn't quite understand my colleague Laudát. First of all, I didn't understand his criticism of the Prime Minister that he didn't answer any questions here. I haven't noticed any questions about the Prime Minister. I didn't even get it when he said he didn't actually see any problem with this law. Then why did you give the veto? So we could speed it up, and it could have been off the table today. I didn't even get it when he says we still want to regulate something, but he doesn't have a problem with the law. But there's regulation! And pretty hard regulation, 'cause that regulation's in order! So that what happened doesn't happen with the campers. Mr Mr President, I really don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u25	Don't worry about it, colleague. With another proper application, Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, government, I would like to ask you to shorten the deadline by ten days, i.e. Fifty to get it to the September meeting, where I think, with a little effort, we could run a second and third reading, and at the same time, we will definitely fix the effective date. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u27	I thank Mr Volný, I take his proposal into account. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. [[No one's checking in.]] I don't see anyone. I am therefore ending the general debate. I ask whether they are interested in the final words of the appellant or rapporteur. They don't. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Please, anybody else have a suggestion? No one else has a suggestion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this proposal to the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 24. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 123, against one. The motion was accepted. There was also a proposal by Mr Volný to shorten the ten-day time limit. I am opening the vote on this proposal to shorten the time limit for the hearing. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 25. 151 Members and Members are registered, for 128, against one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Budgets and that the deadline has been reduced by ten days. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. With priority rights, the President of the Social Democracy Parliamentary Club is signed up. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u28	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to make a procedural proposal on behalf of the Social Democracy and YES Members' Clubs in order to negotiate today and to vote on all proposals in terms of territorial and procedural terms after 19 and 21 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-004-010.u29	Thank you. It is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. I will call my colleagues from the lobby, and I will begin the vote on whether we should discuss both territorially and procedurally today and vote on draft laws after 19 and after 21 o'clock. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 26. Registered to 151 Members, for 116, against 9. The motion was accepted. Now we're going to look at point number
