ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u1	153. Proposal for increased medium-term expenditure frameworks for the years 2015 and 2016 /German press 218/ On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš will present this material. I would ask, instead of a colleague of Votava, who is excused, for Mr Ladislav Šincl to take the position at the rapporteur's table. I now ask the Vice-President of the Government to state the press when the situation and noise levels are reduced. I ask the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm! [[The Deputy Prime Minister notes that he does not mind.]] I know the Minister doesn't mind, but it bothers me, because then I can't hear you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the proposal for increased medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016. When discussing the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 in December 2013, expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 were established by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The frames were designed by the previous government and do not correspond to the current government's spending priorities. Therefore, in accordance with the budgetary rules, the Government is submitting to the Chamber of Deputies to agree on an increased framework for 2015 and 2016. The expenditure frameworks represent expenditure on the state budget and state funds and are consolidated by the grant relations between the state budget and the state funds. The 2015 expenditure framework is the basis for drawing up the draft budget for 2015. The preparation of the draft budget for 2015 has shown that this expenditure framework is insufficient. It is therefore proposed to increase it by 16 billion. for a total amount of 1 169 billion. Kč. For 2016, an increase of 27.5 billion is proposed. CZK 1 191 billion for the total amount. Kč. The main reasons for the increase are: Securing the increase in mandatorial and social expenditures, in particular the valorisation of pensions from 1 January 2015, this is an increase in the average old-age pension by CZK 205. Growth in consumer prices and one third of wage growth will be fully taken into account in the valuation of pensions. At the same time, valorisation will be higher in order to compensate the pensioners in part for the reduced remuneration of pensions in 2013 and 2014. Increasing the payment of the State to a public health insurance scheme, that is to say, a state insured person. Payment is increased from the current CZK 787 to CZK 845 for insured persons and one month. Strengthening expenditure on investment in transport infrastructure, agriculture, education, industry, strengthening expenditure on co-financing of European Union programmes in the fields of agriculture, industry and transport, strengthening the salaries of civil servants, including teachers, spending on pro-growth measures and other government priorities. The proposal to increase the expenditure frameworks corresponds to the projected higher estimate of the revenue of the State budget. Although an increase in expenditure frameworks is proposed, the government is reducing the deficit from the planned 120 billion. CZK 100 billion. Kč. The increased medium-term expenditure frameworks ensure that the government deficit threshold of 3% of GDP is not exceeded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš. I note that this House Press has discussed the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 218/1. I call on the Committee rapporteur, Mr Ladislav Šincl, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to make a motion for a resolution. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on Budgets of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament notes that the Government has submitted a proposal for revised expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 with a view to ensuring the promotion of economic growth in 2015 and subsequent years and ensuring further government priorities. Secondly, it notes that the change in the medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 is proposed as follows: For the medium-term expenditure framework indicator approved by the Chamber of Deputies by resolution 71/2013, it is 1 153 billion for 2015. and for 2016 it is 1 163.5 billion. For the indicator, the proposal to increase expenditure frameworks is at 2015 16 billion. and for 2016 it is 27.5 billion. For the indicator, the proposal for increased medium-term expenditure frameworks is 1 169 billion for 2015. and for 2016 1 191 billion. It also recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies amends its resolution number 71 of the 4th meeting held on 19 December 2013 and sets out a new medium-term expenditure framework for 2015 of 1 169 billion. and for 2016 of 1, 191 billion. Kč. It empowers the President - me, the alternate - to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur and I am opening a general debate. I have no written application, but I see the application of the Member and Chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u6	Thank you for the floor. Our club will vote against this proposal. Allow me to comment briefly on this, not only are we voting against it. In the past days, this week, we have had a debate, for example, on the Government's proposal to introduce a third VAT rate, where we have tabled an amendment to reduce both rates by one percentage point, both basic and reduced. Very often in this discussion, the government coalition said that the budget was not ready for this and that we could not afford it. At the same time, today we have material that clearly shows that the words that the government will save and become more economical are not real because 16 billion are being proposed. This is exactly where there is room to reduce VAT by one percentage point, because there would certainly not be a blackout in income of 16 billion. This means that we are able to reduce VAT by one percentage point without endangering the government's planned state budget deficit to 100 billion, which the government is planning for next year. Yes, the current expenditure framework would have to be maintained, which means expenditure would have to be 16 billion. lower than the government plans, and then sufficient room to reduce both VAT rates. And if you listened well to the justification for the increase, it was said: there is an increase in the state's mandatory spending, mostly to be precise and fair. And last night, we were discussing medical fees again last night, and that's exactly the result. Yes, mandatory expenses are increasing as compensation e.g. medical facilities and hospitals. It is true that the government has decided this, but then it is reflected specifically in the state budget expenditures, and as we said yesterday in the debate, who other than taxpayers will pay for it. Other than those who have paid for it so far, they are taxpayers again. And the last reason or the last argument that I do not consider justified - and I say unfortunately, I would like us to really be able to spend more money on the construction of transport infrastructure next year, and unfortunately, I don't think we will be able to do that. This means an argument for increasing the overall expenditure framework, I think that this argument is simply not true. Officially, the figures for six months of spending on transport infrastructure this year have been published, and yesterday I read the comments of the Minister or the Ministry of Transport, which speak of the result in the first eight months, and I say, with no joy or criticism of the facts, unfortunately, this year we will not be able to draw out the funds and see how it goes next year. [[unintelligible]] Unfortunately, I'm rather a pessimist because it costs competitions to prepare other events, too late to start public contracts. It's a thing that the government or the ŘSD simply doesn't affect, but the course of these public contracts is just very long. Very often, therefore, this is due to the excessive objections of individual applicants up to the ÚOHS and then, of course, the competitions stand. This is the main reason why we will not support an increase in expenditure, because the government is trying to spend more than planned, and then at the same time tells us that there is no room for a slight reduction in VAT rates. This space clearly exists, and this material gives it to all black and white. And I point out, it's not opposition material, it's government material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur. But since you do not report in writing, but electronically, I must ask whether it is a priority right, Mr President, or a factual one. Priority law, so first the de facto Mr Free, then your priority right, Mr Club President. prosit, Mr Volný, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, of course, have to dig up a little bit here against what my previous speaker said. He says we're increasing the mandatorial expenses. Yes, we're basically correcting what the last government did, let's say in times of crisis, as it says, it did. She froze civil servants' salaries, she illegally took money from working pensioners. Why illegally? Because the Constitutional Court itself found this unlawful. And when Mr Kalousek, on TV yesterday or the day before yesterday, defended why he predicted 120 billion for 2015. the deficit compared to our 100 billion, says yes, we've tightened these people, and we wanted to give it back to them at a time when the crisis goes away. So please don't use such arguments, or you can make a deal first as you argue together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u9	I thank Mr Freeman for his time. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS Club, then Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u10	First of all, fellow Member Free through the President, there is no reason for me to negotiate with the Vice-President of another political party and coordinate our speeches. Not really, but it's our business. And second of all, I didn't say it was for mandatorial expenses, that's what the petitioner said. I was just quoting him. Well, that's interesting. The Treasury Secretary will tell you, and you're blaming me. I was just reminding him of his performance. So please don't blame me. If you think that's not true, blame the person who put it here in the opening words. It wasn't me, I merely stated, and from the above-mentioned mandatory expenses, which the Minister of Finance spoke of, I said that at least compensation for the cancelled fees was a purely political decision. You can't make excuses here for any circumstances, any previous governments. And it's about 4.5 billion. per year. And, of course, it increases expenditure, and therefore the budget does not fit into those approved expenditure frameworks. So you just don't pin it on us, even if you want, it was your political decision, I respect that, legitimate, but it increases the mandatorial expenses. And then I talked - and I said unfortunately and I'm not happy about it - that I think that the planned increase may simply be next year, it can be approved, but I think that it is not really possible - and for the third time, for the fourth time, I'm afraid - to invest it. [[unintelligible]] That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u11	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Volný and I note Mr Farský, who reported himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u12	Thank you, I've only been very brief. I didn't say you were wrong about the mandatorial expenses. I just said why the mandatorial expenses are also increasing, that the state employees' salary regulation has been thawed, that we have returned to the pensioners what you took from them. Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u13	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, then Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u14	Thank you. I'll split the performance in two. First, I would like to briefly comment on the exchange of views that took place here between my fellow Members from the Budget Committee, Volný and Stanjura, and then I would like to say what I signed up with. Of course, we can legitimately discuss where the reduction of mandatorial expenditure is appropriate and where it is not, but cannot be, there cannot be a debate about the fact that we cannot achieve sound and balanced public finances unless we reduce the relative ratio of mandatorial expenditure and quasi-mandatorial, which are wages, within the budget. This is the fundamental structural problem of public budgets not only in the Czech Republic, in the vast majority of European countries, but it is the fundamental problem. Just in more than 60 percent of the state is merely an invoicing, which redistributes the funds received into legal purposes, there is simply a minimum government space, the rest are contractual commitments and any finance minister and any government that is to move within budgetary and political priorities for expenditure of an optional nature, so it is within 10 to 15 per cent of the total budget expenditure. And there's the pressure on the deficit, because of course the 10-15 percent isn't enough, and everyone's saying: we need more for investment, we need more for education, we need more for pavements, and that's why there has to be a deficit. No, the answer is different - so that we can have more for education, so that we can have more for investment, so that we can have more for the sidewalks, we have to have lower mandatorial expenses. There's only one crown. I can't invest it and eat it at the same time. I can either do one or the other. And unfortunately, we're eating it, and we're going to see in the debate next year about the draft state budget that we're eating it a little bit more than we ate last year or last year. That's the problem. Through the President, Mr Volný, you have ripped me out of context. When I was talking about the planned deficit, I was talking about the prediction of economic development. Of course, it did not anticipate 3% growth, and I am very glad that it assumes 3% growth as much as all of us, but that year-on-year increase of 3%, which is approximately CZK 35 to 36 billion in the state budget, which no responsible government should use for spending but to reduce deficit. [[10.50 hours]] And that's what I originally volunteered with, let's just say, so I can remember a little bit and say something about history and the importance of medium-term spending frameworks. The structural problem of public budgets was already well aware of Špidlův's government in 2003. That's why it came from... Mr. Okamura, I'm not yelling at you. I'm sorry. You got excited.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u15	Ambassador, just talk to other colleagues through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u16	Okamura became passionate about you. Thank you. Excuse me. [[Laughter, applause on the right.]] That's why the so-called. The Colombian reform of public budgets, which, I admit, was center-left, but was not stupid. And if it were implemented, today we do not have 90 percent of the structural problems of public budgets. One of the relatively fundamental points that this reform contained was the binding nature of the medium-term expenditure frameworks. Thus, the principle that if the increase in annual economic growth is greater than expected in the balance sheet, and what is reflected in the deficit, that expenditure will not be increased by this increase, but will be reduced by the deficit. On the contrary, if it is lower, the deficit will not be increased, but expenditure will be reduced. This is a principle that has been enshrined in our legal order since 2003, in budgetary rules 218/2000 Coll., on the budgetary rules of the Republic. It's a beautiful rule. And I repeat, if it were to be observed, with the six seven years of extraordinary growth during the monetary bubble, we got into balanced budgets in 2007. This rule has one problem. There's no sanctions. The government, if it fails to comply with it, will submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to increase expenditure frameworks. Since the government has a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, this irresponsible proposal will be accepted by the Chamber of Deputies irresponsiblely, and instead of liquidating the deficit and using the year-on-year increase to reduce the deficit, it is used for government gifts. Unfortunately, Špidlův's government behaved this way, so did Grossův's government, so did Paroubkův's government, which even raised the binding medium-term spending framework by 56 billion in 2006. from year to year - and the first government to keep it was the government of Topolánkův. The law has been in force since 2003, but the first government to comply with it was the government in 2007 to break it to Fischerův's government to break it to Rusnokův's government, and now it is a joyous violation of Babišův's government. I'm just saying that what the government is presenting is contrary to the legal order of the Czech Republic. Of course, the moment the Chamber of Deputies approves it, they will just approve it. But the principle, the rule that political representation was committed to back then, and the Social Democrats committed themselves to it, that higher than expected increases would not be reflected in higher spending, would be projected into lower deficits. I know it's not a dramatic amount. And all the more so, it's not a dramatic amount, it's a completely unnecessary violation of the rules and precedent that you're ready to repeat at any time because you don't want to save money, you want to spend it, and that's why we can't support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u17	A colleague of Farský may be registered, but Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek has signed up with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u18	Thank you. I think it was understandable what Mr Kalousek said. I would like to try to answer for myself in a similarly understandable way. It was said here that if we were to gain any increase in the state budget, it would have to be used to reduce the deficit. I would just like to say that what Mr Kalousek said here, as Minister of Finance, was really conscientious and repeated, and I would like to remind the House that the result in the Czech economy was a fall and economic stagnation. Even one of the longest recessions in all those states in Europe around us. Compare how Polák, Slovák, etc. survived in similar conditions. Let us all remember that this type of approach led to the Czech Republic's most reliable freezing. I say one thing against Mr Kalousek's consideration here: It is not true that this government wants to spend just like that. It's a demagogy, a legend that's being created here. I have also been involved in approving this proposal, and I can tell you that philosophy is absolutely simple. The point is, of course, that consumption is also a major driver of the economy, apart from what industry delivers. And what it is is in a reasonable way, not in a kind of wasteful way, but also in an appropriate way, to encourage consumption. You're using the pejorative word "eating," as if, you know, that was almost something to these people -- you're eating some sausage again, that's how you cut the economy. Friends, consumption is part of an economic engine. Consumption is even a very important part. And I'm convinced that the way you guys cut that consumption down by, like, wage measures against civil servants, so you were significantly cutting the economy down. And I say today that our economic policy is also adequate to support investment, government investment, to support the very consumption of the population, because it is an economic pullout. I even dare say that a very significant economic pullout. And if you want to look for an example, take a look, my friends, into the neighbouring Austria. Neighbor Austria is a country that has survived the entire economic financial crisis very well, and I dare to speculate here that one of the reasons is that Austria is also built on relatively strong population consumption. It is a very good equipment, friends, for the crisis, to have a population that has decent real wages and which actually creates strong consumption. We have a whole range of countries that could be named, where consumption is a major driver of the economy. I am simply convinced that the error of your economic policy was that you cruelly underestimated consumption. And we're not tossing around today, we're just making reasonable use of it, we're strengthening government investment. I think that is the essence of the policy that we are doing, and I voted for it personally because I really think that this is the way to decent economic growth. No fuss, no fuss, even consumption is an economic factor, and I think you'll find a number of economists in the literature today to confirm that. I even think that this is one of the big opinions today that sounds loudly everywhere in Europe, and it is said that the policy of purely tightening belts, the investigation, only reducing the deficit has led to freezing not only the Czech Republic, which was the first, but even many other countries in Europe. It is time to admit this also in the Czech Republic and not to challenge the government's policy, not to say that we want to eat, but to realize that it is an attempt to find an economic model that will lead this country out of recession, leading it out of stagnation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u19	Thank you, Secretary of State, for his performance. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, then Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, then colleague Fiedler and with priority rights after factual remarks, Mr Okamura. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u20	Thank you for the floor. I must confess that I have really missed the political struggles with Lubomír Zaorálk on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm glad I can fight him not only as he reads an international contract. I think that's a good thing. I was just waiting for him to look at us and say, "Do you understand? Do you understand?" And we would shake our heads and say, "We don't understand, we don't understand." [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Now I really mean it in a good, friendly way, because that's also the point of Parliament to argue about our opinions. The Foreign Minister has raised one argument and says, look at the other. I'll use another argument and try to disprove it. Look at the percentage of unemployed people in the Czech Republic and compare it with the countries you were talking about. You can't just take one argument and use it. And if we want to increase consumption, why not? But our recipes are different. We can cut VAT by one percentage point. We can reduce the excise duty, which you refused. Then let these people have more money. Leave these people more money and they'll know. [[11.00 hours]] I was just talking about, if you still remember my performance, that by saying you want to increase spending by 16 billion, there's room for tax cuts that aren't radical, but one percentage point. And that effect -- and there are two economist camps again, and we have to admit that. One claims that the better effect is what you say, those who are ideally behind a political party, such as social democracy, and another group of economists who claim that it is better to cut taxes, leave the money to people, and thus they can increase their consumption. And these are economists who are ideally behind right-wing parties, such as the Civil Democratic Party. So don't say but, and I'm sure you understand that you are, but you're not gonna criticize the government. [[unintelligible]] Well, what good would the opposition do? You can hardly ask us to walk and say, "You're doing great, Mr. Secretary, keep it up. [[Attention on time.]] How are you doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u21	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek. Watch out! In that case, Mr Fiedler's factual point, and then only the priority rights. Well, I saw President Okamura as a priority right, okay. Now, Mr Fiedler, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning. I would only react briefly to what was said here from the mouth of Minister Zaorálek. Yes, of course, that consumption is a drag of the economy. But a lot depends on how the consumption, how it's pulled, what. If we continue to put ourselves in debt, if we add to our citizens and to individual members of the population from profit earned, I am, of course, all ten in favour. But if we do this by still growing our debt, or it will be the same, it won't shrink, and don't be mad at me when I look at the draft state budget, there's nothing significant that changes, the numbers are still the same. So I don't agree with this. Yes, consumption does, but if we make money on it. And now I would react or comment on both sides of the dispute. Let the colleagues who fought me here, Minister Zaorálek and the former coalition, they've just switched positions a little bit. If we look at the numbers, the charts that show us history, don't be mad at me, gentlemen from either camp or camp. It didn't matter if there was a opposition or a coalition at the moment, then you switched. That way of indebting, and as our country's economic numbers developed, unfortunately, it's still the same and it's going in the same direction. That hasn't changed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u23	I thank Mr Fiedler for his time. Mr Tomio Okamura is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, consumption yes, increase in consumption too. But the methods are different, of course. Our amendment, which we also consulted with economists, is here on the table to reduce by one percentage point both VAT rates. And economists say that, on the contrary, it will start up consumption, which is stagnating to us, because when VAT went up for Minister Kalousek, it didn't bring the announced selection to the end anyway. Expectations were met only partially, because people simply don't have money anymore. That's what we've been pushing for. This way of increasing consumption is simply reducing taxes, not increasing. Investments in infrastructure are definitely not systemic, because when the money for infrastructure investment runs out, of course, it's hard to take it from somewhere. On the contrary, it is more systematic to set it up across the board, for example, by reducing the taxes. We also voted for a reduction in excise duty on diesel, which is simply lower than in Austria and Poland. And it's not true that it's just a blackout of 14 billion. We forgot the multiplier effect of leaving money in people's pockets. On the contrary, they will go into circulation, and economists say that eight to nine billion, such as Pavel Kohout says, will be the supply to the Treasury. So I admit that there are two camps of economists here, but at dawn, I say, the one way to increase consumption is to lower taxes by starting consumption, that people will have more money in their pockets. People don't have the money to pay these taxes anymore. And we need to follow the opposite trend and not non-systemic incentives, which sooner or later will dry out. It has to be system methods, and we expect them from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Now with proper applications and priority rights, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, then a colleague of Farský. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u26	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to make two comments on the Foreign Minister's speech. The Foreign Minister said: And because Kalousek complied with the law and because he was consistently saving, we had a crisis and recession here. It almost looks like Kalousek cut back on the expenses and saved up to arrange the recession and rejoice that there is a recession. We had here, Minister, at that time a European debt crisis of the state and the Czech Republic in a five percent structural deficit threatened to lose its sovereignty on international capital markets and to become either a hostage to foreign investors or to international institutions, as has happened to many countries. We didn't have time to wait. In the seven months of 2010, what you already ruled, we had to give a perfectly clear and credible signal that we were going to do something about it in seven months. And we were also reducing the structural deficit of the 5 percent at 1.4 percent a year, which is the Ministry of Finance's number. Again, so that Minister Volný doesn't say that these are my numbers, that's the Ministry of Finance's statement. [[Member]] Yes, we have reduced the structural deficit at 1.4 % per year in order to avert this risk and allow future economic growth to be built on sound foundations. And now, to a certain extent, I can agree with you that there is a legitimate discussion if this was to be such a fast pace. If it wasn't enough not 1.4% a year, but 0.8% a year, if it really had to be so fast and ruthless. That can be a legitimate discussion. But there can't be a legitimate discussion about the trend that has to be reduced. There can be a discussion about the parameter, there can be no discussion about the trend. And we've succeeded in this. Yes, I agree, that growth was a lower priority than averting the risk of the Czech Republic's debt crisis. And every treatment just has its side effects, sometimes side effects. And of course, the lower growth, or the shallow recession, was one of the taxes, even though, of course, the government's contribution was about 10% of the total contribution of the external economic environment. We gave public budgets in good health, you had the chance of economic growth, which, thank God, came to build on sound macroeconomic foundations. And you're going to resign for that chance. I will now not argue about the interesting economic view of the Volný-Babiš-Zaorálek model, how by adding civil servants' salaries we will spin rounds of the Czech economy. I'll let you have that faith. But to say that there is a need for fiscal impulses to support the economy especially in times of difficulty, you forgot to tell B what the same economists are saying. That at a time of growth, it saves itself for a worse time. This means that, logically, you should continue, albeit at a much more moderate pace, I agree, you can have a different opinion on this, at a much more moderate rate in reducing the structural deficit. That means, the 1.4 that Rusnokův's government put it in, you could easily cut it by at least half a percent, and you would have the huge advantage of not having to cut your expenses at all. [[11.10 hours]] You wouldn't have to cut costs, it would have been enough if you hadn't raised them. But you don't want to reduce the structural deficit. You're increasing it by increasing spending more than the current revenue with the taxes you've criticized. You take our stabilization steps not to stabilize them, but to spend more with them. And that's the budget crime! That's the irresponsible thing about the future!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u27	That was Mr Kalousek. Mr Pilný, with a factual remark, then duly signed in by Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, it has already fallen - to include in consumption the need to secure the necessary costs of the state is probably wrong. Someone tightened and closed the taps with water, and thus the thirst does not stop, on the contrary it grows. The fact that the state must secure certain functions and therefore add to the state's employees, police officers, firefighters, doctors and teachers is essential after the hard tightening of the roosters, because the state must work. Of course, the basic problem is not how many civil servants they take, but there are too many. And on how many there are, we also participate in the creation of completely unnecessary laws, the production of new and new officials, functions and stamps. Of course, this is not a matter for the Ministry of Finance, but this House and we should make sure that the state slims and is as few employees as possible and secures the functions of the state that citizens need. This will create space to support investment incentives, both private and state, which is, of course, one of the engines of the economy. And, of course, this will also increase consumption, which is also one of the pillars of GDP. That means it's important somewhere else. It's not in budget numbers, it's not really much change after what's happened in the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u29	Thank you. Well, now you've made it difficult for me. Okay. I ask the Member to make a point of fact, then my colleague Farský, though, must wait because Minister Zaorálek has applied with priority right. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'll really be very short, very fast. I would like to respond to the previous speaker, so that we can discuss which laws are redundant, which agendas are redundant, which officials have been redundant - concretely document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u31	Thank you for the very short performance. Now with priority rights, Minister Zaorálek, then Mr Farský. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u32	Colleagues, I would just like to reply to, first of all, perhaps, Mr Kalousek's speech just one comment. It would seem quite reasonable, what he is saying has some logic - to continue to reduce the structural deficit and to maintain the good of the past policy, because there is no doubt that the position of the Czech state in the bond market is, of course, a good thing. I think that Mr Kalousek's whole reasoning has one flaw - that it is not so that we are already on the verge of growth at this point. If you look at the balance sheet for, like, the last six months, there was some kind of recovery in the first quarter, but in the second, it's not that convincing. When you look at the development of consumption, I mean consumption in the last six months, it's not that the consumption has already started and that the economy has really started to grow. This means, in my view, that Mr Kalousek's model is wrong that the continuation of the only philosophy, the philosophy of simply reducing the structural deficit, will probably not lead us out of the situation that we have gotten into, where we have frozen as perfectly as any of the similar economies are within our reach here, perhaps in Central Europe. I believe that the government must do something in this regard. We simply do not have confirmed economic growth, we are not in a situation where the economy has already reflected, and therefore I think that the pro-growth measures that we are taking there, the measures that are aimed at increasing investment here, for increasing consumption, that is only really the attempt to change the trend that we have seen so far and not only to be satisfied with the fact that we are reducing the structural deficit. So I think we're just not in a situation where we can settle for the situation we're in, but instead we have to look for ways to stimulate spending, investment, stimulate consumption. That, I think, is an objection from the general to what Mr Kalousek said, because, in the end, in his view, it means that we should go ahead with the same thing as the previous government did here. And as Mr Stanjura said here, when he said what opposition it would be if she said to you here that we are actually doing well and that you can only commend us. So I'm going to tell you anyway what kind of government it would be that wouldn't try to solve the fundamental problem that the country has today, and that's the problem of economic growth that you haven't been able to move on with. And our job is to change that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u33	Thank you, Secretary of State. With a factual remark, Mr Milan Urban, then perhaps finally with a proper application by Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't blame the previous government for trying to step on the brakes on operating expenses, but we must blame her for stepping on the brakes on investment in a significant way. And I think that's the basic problem. All you have to do is look at the budgets of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and the big differences, and there I think there was a big mistake with the big brake that could have had some positive results for the gross domestic product after all. So, in my opinion, this is a way that needs to be corrected and searched for budget options to boost investment. With the consumption - so of course, but I would be a little careful, because if you look at the share of imported goods in the Czech Republic and Czech Republic, so that we do not strengthen too much of the domestic products of the surrounding countries. So, of course, it has its limits. But what's the problem? The problem is that in the last ten years, we have dropped by about 20 rungs in terms of competitiveness. This is not just a question of budget, its deficit, and some expenditure frameworks. This is a question of the functioning of institutions, this is a question of promoting science, innovation, research, education. These are steps that have long been described. And if they are not described in the Czech Republic, just look at various OECD annual reports or anyone else who sets a mirror for us. So this is something the previous government didn't do. I hope that the present and future will be much more devoted to it, because if we are not good, we will have nothing to export, and the main treadmill of Czech growth and the Czech standard of living, i.e. export of Czech industry, will be gone. So let's focus on this comprehensively, please, and -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u35	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry. Your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u36	Then I'll quit, Mr. Vice-President, why would I bother you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u37	Well, I am glad, because, of course, I would like to give the floor to my colleague Farský for a proper application, but before him, Mr Stanjura also applied for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u38	It is not often that I admit it to the microphone, but I agree with Mr Urban on a lot of matters when we talk about transport infrastructure. And I don't think the whole budget number was the key. The key was to give small money to prepare. And that won't happen for the first or second year, it'll catch up with you later. I know what I'm talking about, unfortunately, which is why I said it wasn't just this year, it was next year. I set up a really big package of project preparation competitions before mid-2013, then, for well-known reasons, the government ended, we almost a year and a half later, and it didn't start much of it. That's the problem that bothers me, because you can even have resources again, you can have more at your disposal than the previous governments had, but the moment you don't have it ready and you don't have a final building permit and you don't have it, it's just a number on paper. So I would just point out that if there was a problem, and I'm saying it was, it was in that there were small resources, but also small energy flowing towards preparation. And it's not just money, it's to choose technical solutions that have logic and that really don't make a strong resistance, because on that map you can draw what you want, if you get a majority in the city or county council, but if you don't choose the route correctly, you're in good faith delaying the construction by units of years, sometimes by ten or fifteen years. So I would be in favour of focusing together on how to choose good routes, not doing controversial things, how to control the quality of the design work, and how to have a lot of resources to prepare, so that when there are possibilities of the state budget, there is something to build.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u39	I thank my colleague Stanjur for his time. Now a colleague of Farský with a proper application, after whom a colleague of František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u40	Thank you. I will have a question, or rather a comment very brief. I've come across various promises being made in the election campaign. But from the current Minister of Finance, a repeated statement was made that he would be wasted in the Czech Republic every year or lose 200 billion in corruption. Crowns. We now have an increase in the medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 by a fraction of this amount. And maybe it's due to my lack of imagination, but I don't understand. Either then the minister was not telling the truth, then the candidate, or he continues to steal in the Czech Republic. I'd like to know the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u41	Thank you. Now, then, František Laudát with a proper application for the debate on this matter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u42	Thank you. I consider this material to really be the second swallow of real truth, which is in fundamental conflict with what you said before the elections and what you do after the election. If you want to support investment, please why will you support higher taxation of funds from 5 to 19 per cent at the third reading - I don't know if it will be on the agenda next week or next week? Of course, you believe that the state is the wisest and the state will pump the economy, but I have a completely different view of it than the Minister of Finance, rather than social democracy. And they always create those values by the private sector. And you're doing exactly anti-growth measures because it's a basic tool for investment. And the Foreign Minister, while he's on his travels, ask questions. Unfortunately, political representation of countries is not always willing to go out with the truth. When the Budget Committee was e.g. In Spain, so I confess we couldn't get to the truth, we couldn't get to it. While the crisis was already there right before Parliament in the tent camp, everyone already knew it, but yet we did not get the truth and received evasive or even not really adequate information. What you're doing here today... We, of course, wanted the term physics - or the Nečasův government at the expense of unpleasant measures, but still perhaps bearable - to direct our country to a stable position. What you're doing right now is an unstable position, because in a number of countries that you're saying are good... Well, the Francouz have been trying to invest in the crisis for a long time. And how did that turn out? It's a ticking bomb that could explode at any time. And if it goes off, it's gonna blow up any fragile growth in all of Europe. They're already being accused of getting stagnation. And please, if you really want, maybe you could cut at a time when it's kind of lame, but there's hope that one, two, three years maybe, of course, I wish for more and we all want it, economic growth, so why are you making the environment worse? I don't think we've dropped 20 rungs in competitiveness. The key problem is education and other things. It's similar to traffic - everyone has a driver's license, so they understand traffic, everyone went through school, so they understand education. And I'm afraid those who were capable there didn't have enough time to change the circumstances of these ministries. Those who are more long-term, they're punks, and it's a shame that such people do ministers. So I think this is sad material, though I say, not dramatic, but rather indicative of the trajectory. I'm afraid the deficits are going to be bigger in real life than the medium-term plan he's planning. I don't know if the deficits of the various funds are even calculated in those deficits. For me, it was quite surprising when I actually saw for the first time in history that material had gone to the Economic Committee, where the medium-term outlook of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure had a deficit planned. It's never been done before, I don't know if it can be done like this at all. However, please, I would never have seen it so dramaticly. But you don't give money, or you don't make an investment axe, on the contrary. I'm glad we've at least agreed that you're increasing the mandatorial expenses, which until now you've relentlessly refused, and that's the message. As far as Austria is concerned. Minister, they were luckier after the war in the finals, even if they were a defeated state, that they did not fall into the economic care of comrades. They earned a hard-core job, so there's an economic fundamental, infrastructure, and then they live on it, and they do much better than in a country that was shattered first by fascism and then by communism. So there's something a little different and there's a huge conservative behavior. I can't believe the Rakušák are throwing money away and putting it into consumption. Everyone's been turning that crown around a lot. So it's a completely different policy and a different atmosphere created by political representations than it is here with us. However, in this context again, I appeal to you to consider this in the law where you tax funds, and to really release this part of it. Because you are sending the Czech Republic in the medium and long term, especially in the long term, on the trajectory of technological decline. And of course it will also be discussed, he has already mentioned it to the Minister of Finance - I think you should be very careful with increasing the mandatorial expenses, because things will come up that will have to be dealt with. The Minister has recently discovered how the research center came out of European subsidies. No one dared say we don't want them here. When someone said that not every grant could be advantageous, he was here for criminals in past periods. And we have pointed out that some subsidies can easily turn into antidotes if they are not premeditated. So, of course, we will not support this material because it is in sharp conflict with what we have in mind about the economic future and the economic stability of the Czech Republic in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u43	I thank Mr František Laudát and with proper application now Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u44	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to follow up on what my colleague Laudát said. There's still talk here or a budget proposal and medium-term spending are stuck with investment and consumption. What consumption will we support by raising wages - I say, agree, rightly - to those groups to whom it is proposed? Then how will these funds, which partly go back from the loaned debt, because we didn't make money for everything, be spent? I will totally agree with that if they are spent on products that arise from us, from which we produce added value, from which we pay tax contributions from the work. But if these increased costs are spent on goods imported, which are basically not bringing us anything, on the contrary, they are losing their job on our market, so I can't relate to this. I just don't agree with this. [[11.30 hours]] Investment. Where are we going to invest? So far, I haven't found any more detailed material to explain in more detail what the structure of the investment will be. There's always talk of investing in transport, in transport infrastructure. We'll invest in transport, in transport infrastructure. Job opportunities will arise - I agree. However, they will be created in a one-time manner. If we support the production of what we used to produce ourselves and we don't produce anymore today, then repeated profit, repeated income, repeated tax contributions would be the same. I know. A colleague here is smiling. I know history, I know how it happened, it's more complex. Let's see how the world works. Our companies, specifically us from the Budget Committee, were in Mladá Boleslav. They make damage control, sell them to the world. Can they just drive them all the way to China? Can they just drive them to Russia? They cannot, the proportion of the product exported there must be assembled, produced in the country concerned. Let's do the same. If they set the same conditions for us, let us set the same conditions for those who flood us with their goods. Japan went the way that it invested at the time of the recession. It invested in building roads, railway lines, motorways. They have beautiful bridges there today. There are studies about it, there are reports about it. But these investments didn't bring anything, they only indebted them because investors didn't come. If the investors come and they're here, I fully agree when we're sure. But if we build industrial zones and communicate with them and the occupancy of industrial zones will be 10, 20, 30, 40 percent, such an investment is already with a big question mark. So I agree with investment, but I would like to hear in more detail, more precisely, which direction they will go. And encourage consumption? Yes, consumption from which we will have something ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u45	I thank Mr Fiedler. It was the last one entered into the debate so far. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words in the general debate. Yes, Mr. Finance Minister. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we have so many economists and people who understand the economy, employment and investment. It's really gratifying. I'd just repeat the facts. The nonNečasův government was planning a deficit of 120 billion. I've got it for 100. Mr. Fiedler could at least read my interviews and find out we're not in debt. On the contrary, try to think about what I'm going to say. Debt 2013 - 1,683 billion. Debt at the end of 2015 - 1,683 billion. That's the same number, if I count correctly. Deficit 2014 - I think I'll get below 90 billion. And next year, as I said, we're going to reduce the deficit by 20 percent to 100 billion. The question is, how is that possible? It's possible that I started running a cash flow state that nobody did. And absolutely, Mr Fiedler, it is 43.3% of GDP - debt at the end of 2013. And since we're counting on GDP to increase, we're totally reducing to 40 percent of GDP. I hope you understand now and you won't say we're not. And all of this, that we're correcting the strangulation of the economy that Nečasův' government and Kalousek have shown here, we're going to do the same deficit, and we're going to run consumption, we're going to give back pensions, we're going to give back tax benefits for other kids, for pensioners. I'm doing it because I'm right-wing, Mr. Laudát says I shouldn't say it, I'll always say it, with developed social feelings. That's why I have a foundation that gives out tens of millions a year, a so-called Swedish model who doesn't know it. Mr. Urban was talking about transport infrastructure. I don't know, read the numbers, too. The State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is proposed at 94 billion. for 2015. And 2014 is 71 billion. The year 2013 was still 20 less. And we're doing everything we can. Now I've told Prime Minister Filip to finally do something - Lovosice, Ústí, we're waiting for him. We're trying to run an infrastructure here. Government 2013 - returned 11.7 billion, because it was not built. It is not our fault that this state is paralyzed by meaningless laws that will not allow us to build quickly. We've come up with a suggestion that instead of arguing with landowners for four years, we'd speed it up. And she threw a pitchfork into the opposition right away. They don't like it. So we're actually saving up. We're saving up. We gave back the people who took them, the paychecks. I was with the firefighters in Chrudim yesterday. Just go out in the field. A lot of people here are talking about the economy, and you have to ask. Yesterday, I was at the Vysoké Myth at the manufacturer's IVECO. I asked about their opinions, about the cursarbeit, minimum wage - a big debate among politicians too. Mr. Okamura. Tax reductions. Why would we lower taxes now? We need to collect taxes. Nobody cared. Manage financial management and customs administration. We lost 4.5 billion in the Ekoinvest case. Those are the so-called carousels. That's where they're stealing from us. And if anyone didn't understand, I was talking about it before the election. And we lost 70 billion for Mr Kalousek from 2009 to 2013. I showed it on TV on a chart. Those are the carousels, that's the Íránec who was taken into custody based on the Hilton action, just robbed us by 4 billion. Too bad. Customs had been aware of this since 2008. She wasn't doing anything. I don't know why. We'll see if we can work it out. It saves GIBS. The question is, is it stealing? I think it's stealing. I just found out at ČD Cargo that there's a great contract signed under the 2008 Bazaly. I don't know who the Minister of Transport was there. ČD Cargo rented a depot in Lovosice in 80 miles. per year. The proceeds are 22, so every year they lose 60 million, and everyone says the contract is unanswerable. There are even ideas to buy the property for 35 miles. EUR. The system that was built here works in some resorts and we try to uncover it, such as health care. Finally, we have already agreed on the remuneration for individual health care providers. So I think that the budget and expenditure frameworks are very consistent. I would remind you that in 2013 during the reign of Mr Nečas, when Mr Kalousek was Minister of Finance, he submitted a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to increase expenditure frameworks for 2014 and 2015 and for 2014 by 15 billion. The reason was to secure economic growth support in 2014 and subsequent years. These frameworks have not been discussed since the Chamber of Deputies ended. The planned deficit was then 90 billion. And you raised it to 105 for Mr. Nečas. So you're criticizing something here, and you did the exact opposite. And I do positive things, because we inherited the budget from Mr Rusnok 112, we reduced it to 107, we're 90, and my personal objective is to get to 2013. And that's when we let go of everything. [[11.40 hours]] Retirement, we pay back the people you took away from them, the cops, the firefighters, everyone. Financial office, customs office. There's no way these people are taking 15, 18,000. How are they supposed to collect taxes and prosecute criminals who steal from us? And I'm doing the EU-wide fight against tax fraud, folks. I presented it at the ECOFIN Finance Ministers' meeting, and now here's 2. 10. Ministers will come at least four to five countries, maybe six, the Minister of Finance of Germany, and we will deal with the reverse charge. Why didn't you discuss it? The fuel. Where since the modern history of this country, the biggest scams have always been made. LTO etc. So I'm trying to do it and convince European countries to do it, too, with fuel. Because the European Union does not allow us to do so. So the opposite is true, it's a really weird debate to listen to here. There are resources on the transport infrastructure, except we're paralyzed. And we started bypassing the Hradec for example. Eighteen years, Havránková. And more bypasses. I, at the Ministry, ordered that we first address environmental burdens where there is revitalization and where there is transport infrastructure, because that's what everyone wants. And let me just conclude that the 2014 draft state budget for Rusnokův's government was exceeded by 28 billion. as opposed to approved by the Chamber of Deputies. So we're doing everything we can to keep our finances healthy. I don't need any advice. I came from a world where it's normal. It's not normal for a private company to lose money every year. It's only done in the beginning when I invest. But in two or three years, I have to make money. And all companies have certain rules about it. The state doesn't have the rule. The state is losing, it's normal, especially in Europe, except for Germany, of course, it's a problem everywhere. France's definitely a big problem. So I'm doing this to reduce the structural deficit, as Mr Kalousek says. And I'm sure we'll keep doing that. But we've taken over this country in a really detachable state, and we have to deal with everything at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u47	I thank the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister and we will proceed to the debate in detail. I think it would be more appropriate, Mr President, if we are not among the debates. [[He is speaking to Mr Kalousek, who is claiming priority rights.]] I have closed the general debate. [[Off-Mike reaction.]] You do, Mr. Speaker of the House of Deputies. But I have allowed the final word after a general debate to the Minister, I will launch a detailed debate and, of course, I will call you immediately to give your opinion with priority right. You can certainly justify it in a detailed debate, including the motion for a resolution, if you wish to say so. We are at the point - I repeat again - we are at point 153 Proposal for increased medium-term expenditure frameworks for the years 2015 and 2016. It is not the first or second reading, it is simply the negotiation of these frameworks. It has a special prescription, just like the news is being discussed. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u48	Okay, so that we don't have as absurd a discussion as when President Hamáček was in charge of an emergency meeting. In a detailed debate, I put forward a motion for rejection and allow me to justify this proposal by briefly commenting on the final word of the petitioner, Minister Babiš. I don't think - I don't blame you - but that you haven't understood to this day, you haven't listened to what I said about spending frames. časový government, right, yes, planned a deficit of 120 billion. for 2015, because in 2013, no analytical workstation allowed itself to predict and also did not predict the growth of up to three percent. It just came back a lot bigger than we expected. It is, of course, a good thing, we all rejoice about it, but the sense of medium-term spending frameworks is that if the annual growth in the economy is higher than expected, it should be used to reduce the deficit, not increase expenditure. And you already had enough pillow on the budget that you approved, Rusnokův's government, already had enough pillow, because Rusnokův's government has already sharply increased the structural deficit and increased the expenditure to keep up with the summers of 2015 and 2016 in those medium-term frames. It's not enough for you. And please, Minister, it is not true that you are reducing the deficit. You are reducing the deficit in nominal revenue and expenditure figures, but you are not reducing it in the only indicator that can really monitor the government's budgetary responsibility. Thus, in an indicator that is net of economic cycles, i.e. from higher than expected growth, and from extraordinary income. And if we get rid of it, we quite criticized Rusnokův's government for a structural deficit of 1.4 at the moment of growth, and we expected that if you wanted to save, at least you wouldn't increase the structural deficit! But you're raising it! Is it ever really like in Cimrmanův's game - did we talk or not talk? You are able to say here in one sentence: I am reducing the structural deficit, and that is why it needs to be increased. You are able to deny in one sentence the materials that you officially submit to the Chamber of Deputies and the European Commission! We were here a few days ago. Your own Members of the Budget Committee, probably at your direction, because you tell them, contradicted your own numbers! They've argued with us here that what you're presenting isn't true! You're just really capable of verbally telling that public something other than what you're doing! You say, "Save." And you're raising expenses! In this context, I would like to ask, because the debate is open, on the question put by Mr Farský, this has to do with the fact that your concrete actions are in direct conflict with your specific words. You were in the election campaign, and after the election, you repeated it many times, saying, "Everything was stolen here, 200 billion a year has been stolen here!" Some of us thought it was nonsense in the election rhetoric. But it is true that you had a number of listeners and the public believed you and it certainly brought you many votes and support with which you are implementing this, in my opinion, highly immoral budgetary policy. But if 200 billion were stolen. Every year for those criminals you criticized, so how come you're increasing your expenses now? When you said you weren't gonna steal for you. So there are two options. Either you lied or you were telling the truth, and in that case, say, they robbed 200 billion of them. Every year, and I raise expenses because I want to steal another 60 billion. More. [[Applause and laughter for Members of the TOP 09.]] There are no other two options! And I know, of course, that I have now overexposed it in the parliamentary debate. I just want to draw attention to the absurd contradictions between the official documents you're presenting to the Chamber of Deputies and the spats you call on television and the microphone in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u49	So that was the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. And of course I'll give the floor to the Minister of Finance right away, but I'll make an apology to Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnickýý at 12 o'clock. Minister, you have the floor. You signed up for a point of fact, I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u50	Thank you. I don't know where Mr Farský read about 200 billion. I've always said 100 billion. And 100 billion are the carousels, Mr. Kalousek, those where thanks to you we lost 4.5 billion in the Ekoinvest case because you didn't manage the financial administration or the customs administration. You were just using them for your own interests-- the Squire and the Knížek, my friends. One hundred billion, yes, that's what audit reports are for, and that's 2.7 percent of GDP, it's 1% in Germany and up to 100 billion, and thanks to you, we lost 70 billion in 2009-13, and specifically this case, which - hopefully GIBS will finally investigate - is a specific example. And if it was stolen, sure. You wanted to steal 60 billion specifically on an environmental contract. I already know how and why today, and that's why I'm buying organic contracts for half today. I was talking about 100 billion being a carousel, and if someone were to collect taxes properly, we still have 30 extra, and your friend Knížek, with whom you almost privatized your financial administration, confirmed in one interview. So let's say the numbers specifically as it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u51	Thank you for keeping time. I have other factual points. The priority shall be given to electronic applications, i.e. to Mr Laudát, then to Mr Stanjura, then to Mr Farský. The President shall then have the right of priority. [[Stanjura]] Yes. Mr Laudát on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Since the Minister of Finance didn't answer to Kalousek for what he needed the extra 60 billion, I'm going to answer for him: to bail out the superbomb that's happening now to the Minister of Transport. 'Cause who's gonna pay for what he's doing to D1? I hope, and if you want to know the specifics of what's going on there, I hope you'll support next week's point, which I will suggest to the transport department. So he needs the money there because somebody's gonna have to pay for the damage!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u53	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Jan Farský, then the President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u54	Thank you. I'll give up my source here. It's an iDNES September 26, 2013 from 19.34. The article is called Corruption and waste is running out of 200 billion, he told Babiš to voters. Andrej Babiš was sold out in Brno, after 500 chairs only dusted, over a thousand people got stuck. He considered it essential that the state is fleeing CZK 200 billion every year because of corruption and waste. [[Let's hear it for TOP 09 and ODS.]] And if you put 200 billion in the search engine in conjunction with the name Babiš, you'll lose a lot of links and newer ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u55	Thank you for keeping time. In fact, Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u56	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like Mr. Finance Minister, if any question is made, not to keep readings from the past as it was. Here are the specific questions for what is. And let me think about one example like that. I think it would be better if I pravičák to quote comrade Lenin, but I'll take Babiš example from somewhere else, and it will be from the British Parliament. For my colleague, by the way. Jermanová through you, it will be from the 19th century, where hours and hours have spoken, and yet they managed half the world. That is, please, back to the Rules of Procedure, but I am turning away. [[Fun and applause for Members of the ODS.]] And there were two great men of world history, Gladstone and Disraeli. And they kept barking about how they took turns in those governments, until one day the one that was always, you did it in that government, or you didn't do it when the other guy came in. And once Disraeli said to Disraeli, "Look, if we keep talking about the past, we'll become part of it." Within a year and a day, there were other politicians.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u57	I thank my colleague Blažek and now, with priority right, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. We are in a detailed debate, and I therefore beg, in addition to those who have the right of priority, to propose a resolution, if any. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u58	Thanks for the heads-up. I mean, we have a weird attitude here. In our Chamber of Deputies, a Member may speak and say: you wanted to steal 60 billion - and it is quiet! And when another MP comes out and says the biography: you were a communist cop, the government MPs deal with it on the mandate and immune committee and say outrageous sentences of the type: he is a communist cop, but in the House, you can't say it. I think the House can say anything. So I would ask that everyone, if they are so free of personal attacks, or if someone is allowing them to receive them as well. Then it's simple: who gives, accepts. I don't have a problem with it, and I think it's a fair approach. But you can hardly want anyone to just give, and the other can only receive. And whoever doesn't give and attack personally, which I like and is sympathetic, so no one else should personally attack because the person argues correctly. Maybe he's got a different opinion, maybe he's wrong, but he's not using arguments like who stole where he's gonna send someone to trial. I think, however, that the facts from a personal CV or professional are not at the meeting of a mandate and an immune, respectively. They are when someone asks, but I think the proposal would be rejected in about 30 seconds and it would be quiet. Before I get to what I wanted, I think there was a sentence here that I, my colleagues and my colleagues are really protesting. The Minister of Finance has already said that he has taken over the country here in a detachable state. In a detachable state, Czechoslovakia took over the country's democratic representation in December 1989, after communists, aesthebacists, cops, footmen of Moscow, and I can say one after another. That's just not true, and you can tell yourself that. And compare the situation in which the political representation then took over the country and today or last year when you talk about 2013. And now to budgets and spending frameworks. I think - and first I'm going to talk about the Department of Transport - that we should distinguish between facts, possibilities and PR. Yesterday I read like many of you that there was a general meeting of D3 and R4, which is an initiative of municipalities and regions, possibly companies, similar to our I/11, which we talked about yesterday at another point. There came one of the Deputy Director General of ŘSD and said: this year and next year we will start building four sections of D3. That is good news - if it were true! Today's September 19th and there's not a single tender on D3! How can the top manager of ŘSD say if he doesn't compete on September 19th we're gonna start building this year? It's just not possible. Not that we didn't want it, but if it were March 19, I believe it, too, in the good course of the public contract. If he said, this year we're gonna run the competitions, and if the candidates don't fool around and they don't appeal back and forth for two years, there's a real chance that the next construction season will go in full swing on four sections, he'd be right. But I read because many took over uncritically, the PR version: four sections will start building this year and next year. That's just not true. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance used the correct figure if the government approved it, and I think he has it on Monday, the budget of the SFDI - 94 billion when he says: and that's 20 more than last year, so we're better than Rusnokův's cabinet and it's even more than in 2013. But if you look into that budget every year, you have one summary table called national resources - that's what the government gives and, if necessary, share in taxes, and then they're European resources. So just to remind you: the national resources in 2013 were 43 billion, the national resources in Rusnokův's budget are 43 billion, that's the same, and for next year is planned to be absolutely fundamental and system change - 44 billion is proposed. [[Laughter in the ODS line.]] That's it! Next year, there are two OPD 1, OPD 2, and when it's lucky, more European money really runs out. And the one billion, which is increased against 2014 and 2013, when everything was wrong from national sources, is increased by forecasting a higher collection of excise duties, tolls and road signs. [[12.00 hours]] This means subsidies, what the government really decides politically from only 10 to 15 percent that it has at its disposal, it is unfortunately true that the government's room for manoeuvre, whichever is too narrow if the law doesn't change, and when I read, and there are such articles and opinions that it is one billion, virtually. 1 beat. 200 billion, so you have 1,200 billion, and 10 percent just like that, and you have 120 billion. spared, so says someone who's never read the budget. This may be true at the moment when you forcefully change the mandatorial spending and the space of 15 percent, if we stick to the more optimistic option, that is, from some 200, maybe 250 billion can expand to some 300 to 350, and that is the space in which the government can make and implement its political agenda and its political priorities. And by our vote, and I said that when I was speaking for the first time as the first speaker, we are going to vote against it because economic growth is forecasted to be around 3%, so I'm just saying revenue autonomously without the government doing anything, and I don't want to downplay government efforts to raise taxes better, really not, and I think that's a common goal, they're going to be roughly plus 40 billion. That's just reality, that's just good, nobody's gonna change that. We argued yesterday or the day before yesterday about whether there was room for a 1% reduction in VAT rates, where the estimates differ, about the state budget revenue shortfall under consideration, those static models, someone talking about 6, someone talking about 8 billion, it's hard to predict, forecast what the consumption will be next year, forecast whether it's 1 percent left in margins, or if half of it stays in margins, or 70 percent or 30 percent. But even if we took the static model, we're somewhere at six, maybe seven, maybe eight billion. And we wanted to point out that if we - we know that the government coalition is voting, even though we are proposing and voting against, we are political realists, that is, but then the argument does not apply next week when we vote at third reading that there is no room for tax reductions. With what we're going to vote on in a few minutes, you're going to create this space because it's going to raise expenditure frameworks by 16 billion. in 2015. I will just repeat our club's position that we will vote against, because even from the debates in those tax laws, it was obvious that the proposals have not yet been supported by the Chamber of Deputies, which means that any increase in expenditure will not be accompanied by a reduction in taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u59	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone with the priority right of Mr Kalousek, and then the Vice-President of the House of Filip will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u60	Thank you for the floor. I don't know if he's worth thinking about, but I don't know if it's worth thinking about President Stanjura's thought that we had a devastated country here in 1990, especially thanks to the aesthetics. It is, it is really thoughtful, because if we take today's weekly ECHO, you can also find it on my Facebook, the weekly ECHO counted in the immediate presence of the owner of Agrofert and the first Deputy Prime Minister 17 elite agents of StB and KGB. And if what Mr. Babiš sometimes likes to say is that Agrofert is flourishing, it certainly thrives with the help of his closest colleagues, then the question is, if these guys were to continue to do it here in the Czech Republic, if the Czech Republic would not also bloom. They certainly think so, and maybe they're taking second service now, and they're trying to pick it up the second time. So I think what President Stanjura said is worth a lot more consideration than a common sentence in a common parliamentary shootout. First of all. Two. Minister through Madam President, please do not overhear what Mr Farský has said here. It was significant, please. Even if it was a small thing, it was significant for all of your performances and performances of your entire movement in recent months. You were standing here, and as the first Deputy Prime Minister, an important constitutional official, you said: I never said 200 billion. Then someone goes to have a document, and he said: 200 billion you said there and there, then and then, at so many hours, at so many seconds. And this is how you argue, please nicely, always and in everything: I never wanted to cancel a death sentence. - I did, two days ago, but you don't remember. I never wanted to increase the structural deficit. - But you're increasing because you're putting it in your official papers. I never wanted to raise taxes. - But you're increasing because you're putting it in your official papers. Do you realize that one of the values of the constitutional agent of the Czech Republic is its elementary credibility in the consistency of arguments? That you can say things that people don't agree with, that you can say things that annoy people, that irritate people, but shouldn't you, if you want someone to trust you at least today's date, you shouldn't contradict yourself in two sentences in three minutes? That doesn't give you any trouble at all. You don't have a hard time saying anything one day other than what you said yesterday. It doesn't make it hard for you to lie with your eyes open that you never said anything when you said anything. You don't find it difficult to say that you're cutting expenses when you're simultaneously publishing official documents that you're increasing them. You do not find it difficult to say that you are reducing the structural deficit when you simultaneously issue official documents that you are increasing the structural deficit. Minister, you lie all the time! You lie to this Chamber of Deputies, which touches me as its member, you lie to the Czech public. The documents, even with the clock and the seconds you said it, and you're convicting yourself of a lie, are already a few meters away. Are you really sure this is a dignified representation of the government of the Czech Republic? Lying five times a day and denying my own sentences I said yesterday?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u61	Thank you. We will now deal with the factual points in this order: Vice-President Filip, Mr Schwarz and Mr Okamura. Please, Vice-President, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u62	Thank you. Madam President, members of the government, Madam and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Sometimes I want to apply § 59 para. 4 when driving a meeting because people don't talk to the point. I do not do this because I cannot do this, because mostly those who have priority rights do not speak to the issue, and this is just the President, the members of the government, the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs, the chairmen of the political parties, and that is the end of the list of those who have priority rights. I'm sorry, because I often remind myself of the famous sentence of Jan Werich, who said clowns are few, but clowns are! And I say politicians are, but we don't have enough statesmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u63	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Schwarz's de facto opinion. The Member withdraws the application, so please Mr Okamura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I already talked about this yesterday. We are here again instead of working and adopting laws, witnessing a show between Mr. Kalousek and Mr. Babiš. The Dawn Movement wants to work, so the Dawn Movement takes ten minutes to give room for Mr. Babiš and Mr. Kalousek to come to an agreement, to discuss the laws before us in ten minutes so that we can work for the citizens. So we're putting in a nice and correct opening space for ten minutes, and please, you guys make a deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u65	Thank you. So I'm interrupting today's meeting until 12.20 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, since the time set for the break of the Dawn Club has passed, we will continue our negotiations. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate. I ask the plaintiff if he is interested in the final word. I'd rather not, okay. And the rapporteur? Not either. I therefore ask the rapporteur of this press to present a motion for a resolution on which we will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u67	Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to recapitulate that a motion has been tabled to reject this press, and that should be voted on as the first proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u68	Yeah, okay. Once again, I'll call all my colleagues from the lobby, sign you all off, and I'll ask you for a new registration with your cards. Okay, so now we're going to vote on the motion to dismiss that fell here by Mr Kalousek, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u69	Yes, Prime Minister Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u70	Okay, so I'm taking the vote. Whoever is in favour of a motion to dismiss, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 66, number of registered 132, of which 28 is against 72. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. I therefore ask the rapporteur now to present the motion for a resolution on which we will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u71	Then, in a detailed debate, a motion for a resolution, tabled by me as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, was tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u72	May I ask you to read it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u73	I'll read it again. The Committee on Budgets notes that the Government, with a view to securing economic growth support in 2015 and subsequent years and ensuring further government priorities, has submitted a proposal for revised expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016. It notes that the change in the medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 is proposed as follows: 71/2013 for 2015 in the amount of 1 bill. 153 billion. and for 2016 1 bil. 163.5 billion. The proposal indicator for increasing expenditure frameworks is designed for 2015 to amount to 16 billion. and for 2016 of 27,5 billion. and the indicator of the proposal for increased medium-term expenditure frameworks is set at 1bill for 2015. 169 billion. and for 2016 in the amount of 1 bill. 191 billion. It recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies changes its resolution No. 71 of the 4th meeting of 19 December 2013 and sets out a new medium-term expenditure framework for 2015 of 1 bill. 169 billion. and for 2016 in the amount of 1 bill. 191 billion. koruna." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u74	I thank you, and I am now opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution will press the button and raise his hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 67, to which 139 are registered, of which 75 are in favour, against 29. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved and that this item has been concluded. I have Mr Kalousek's priority right here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u75	Thank you, don't worry, I'll be brief. I just want to thank the rapporteur for once again reading the 2013 resolution that you changed by increasing expenditure. I would like to ask you very much, colleagues and colleagues, to look into the back of the day. Those medium-term expenditures were approved in connection with the approval of the state budget proposed by Rusnokův's government and which you approved, although we warned that they had unnecessary expenditures. At the time, the finance minister said, "We've only been there for a few days, we can't see the budget, we have nothing left to do but approve the budget now, see where we're going to save, and then we'll start saving. Please take a look at the tree, that's what it says. So he looked into the budget, looked at where he was saving, and suggested a rapid increase in spending. So this is your politics of speech and deeds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-009-153.u76	Before we proceed to discuss another point, which is paragraph 57, the Education Act, allow me to read two apologies - Mr Hájek apologizes for today's meeting between 13 and 14 a.m. and from 12.30 apologizes to Minister Babiš for reasons of work. Minister Zaorálek asks me here that there should be a arms trade, but according to the agenda approved by us, after 12 o'clock, the school code is due. That is why I am approaching paragraph 57. Point 57 is
