ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u1	36. Government bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws /German press 291/ - First Reading Under the authority of the Government, the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš will give the proposal to which I hereby give the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, colleagues, let me briefly mention the so-called proper amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. The main changes which are the subject of a proper amendment to the Value Added Tax Act are related to the fight against tax evasion. First of all, it is necessary to mention the extension of reverse charge systems, or reverse charge arrangements, following voluntary implementation of EU law. Furthermore, amendments to the special scheme for investment gold aimed at limiting the misuse of this special scheme and the resulting tax evasion. Last but not least, it is the introduction of a so-called control report, which should enable the tax administrator to obtain timely data from taxable transactions and to exercise the right to deduct tax on the basis of which tax evasion can be effectively prevented. Given the need to provide sufficient time to prepare for proper compliance with the control reporting obligations, it is proposed that this measure be put in place only from 2016. The proper amendment to the Value Added Tax Act also includes the elimination of uncertainties in the application of value added tax and the exemption from that tax on immovable property arising from the approval of the new Civil Code or the introduction of a delegated tax obligation regime for the supply of immovable property where the payer decides to apply the tax after the end of the exemption time test. It is also proposed to maintain the current turnover for the compulsory registration of payers, i.e. one million crowns, and thus cancel the approved reduction of this limit to CZK 750 thousand. The effectiveness of the proper amendment to the Value Added Tax Act is proposed on 1 January 2015. An exception is the provision relating to the introduction of a control report with the proposed effect from 1 January 2016 and part four, for which for legislative technical reasons the effectiveness is proposed 31. 12. 2014. Finally, my introductory words allow me to ask you to discuss the draft law in the committees and its approval, and I note that, in the context of a detailed debate, the deadline for discussing this proper amendment in the committees will be reduced to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u3	Yes, thank you. I just point out that this proposal must be heard in a debate that I will be opening shortly. But I will give the rapporteur another word for the first reading, which is Mr Václav Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, let me introduce you to the press report 291, which is a law amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax. The Minister has already mentioned this press. The main objectives are the setting of the legal basis for the transformation of the directives of the European Union, the abolition of the reduction in turnover for the mandatory registration of VAT payer, then the partial changes related mainly to the recodification of private law and legislative technical changes. Of the most important adjustments, I would point out or recall, I say again that the Minister has already mentioned them, it is the introduction of control reports, i.e. data registration requirements for tax duties, including sanctions. The reason, of course, is to improve tax collection and reduce tax fraud on value added tax parties. There is proposed efficiency from 1. 1. 2016. Furthermore, these are conceptual changes in the scheme of delegated tax application, which reflects the European Union's legislation and the fight against tax evasion. It is also a cancellation of the reduction in turnover for the payer's mandatory registration, from one million to 750 thousand crowns, which should have been effective from 1. 1. 2015, to launch the famous JIM Act. Furthermore, the application of the 15% reduced rate to buildings, including land and parts thereof, is specified, specified and defined by certain nomenclatures, "construction land', where the supply of land is exempt, the living space for social housing and the like is defined. Finally, the amendment also changes the structure of the classification of the Value Added Tax Act. So much, in a nutshell, for the major changes that the proposed amendment addresses. I recommend you release for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u5	Thank you. I am now opening the debate. Mr Okamura reporting, then Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a comment on this government bill on value added tax, namely to reduce the turnover for the VAT payer's mandatory registration from one million to 750 thousand. That's what I'd like to focus on. I'm not going to comment on the rest at first reading. In the opening report, the Ministry of Finance writes - and I quote: "The main reason to cancel the reduction in turnover to 750 000 is not to increase the administrative burden for both new payers and tax administrators, because the reduction in turnover would increase the number of payers. " So I must thank Mr Babiš and his team for the official recognition of what I have been saying and what I have been writing about for years, and for the fact that the current VAT system brings an extreme bureaucratic burden to the Czech Republic for both companies and the state. [[11.50 hours]] I add that the extremely complex VAT system we have in the Czech Republic is the engine of a gigantic amount of tax fraud. So I'm glad that almost a year after this government is in power, so that in addition to, I'd say less systemic cosmetic changes here, we have at least a hint of the right direction that Dawn has been promoting since the beginning. Because there are two ways to approach the VAT issue. Either regulate, control and register more, which unfortunately also the Ministry of Finance is planning on simplifying the system in other areas, or, on the contrary, to make it more clear and, above all, to make it cheaper. Cheaper for the state and for the companies and at the same time set it up so that tax fraud will not be necessary and will not be possible. And that's the way úsvit wants to go. Therefore, on this occasion, we would also like to call on the Government to take this indication, which it has presented here in this VAT Act, so that, if possible, these steps continue systematically in other areas regarding tax administration in the Czech Republic. And it's not enough - and I've talked about it more than once. It is enough to inspire in developed countries of the world, where they do not even have VAT at all, e.g. U.S.A. And if we want to tax on land, it is the sales tax paid by the final consumer that is not deducted among entrepreneurs. Of course, VAT cannot be changed without the consent of the European Union, but the government wants to be pro-European, so let us try to be at least in something leaders and not outsiders or tails, tails within the European Union. And let us at least initiate a debate, a debate at a European level, and let us try to make those changes. As I said, really little is enough. All you have to do is really want and not be lazy. After all, we have enough of our well-paid representatives in the European Union. And I'm sure we'll find support wherever they have common sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u7	Thank you. Before Mr Volný comes forward, the President of the ODS Club, Mr Stanjura, has exercised priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u8	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I want to say that we will vote for the release of the law for second reading. However, I would like to point out in my speech two problems that we could still discuss in the committees. Firstly, it is a reverse charge where it is true that the new EU regulations allow us to extend the list of goods and commodities to which it applies. And I was intrigued by this account, which is in the explanatory report, by one vague, i.e. Equipment containing integrated circuits. If we can even imagine what everything, what device contains an integrated circuit, one or more. It is a matter that we will definitely want to debate on the Committee on Budgets. To me, the definition seems so general that the interpretation can be ambiguous and would cause problems both on the part of the payers and on the part of the financial authorities and the state administration. And I don't know exactly why it's suggested that reverse charge be on cell phones and tablets. This seems to me to transfer a tax liability, or at least a partial transfer of tax liability to entities, to those who normally purchase and at that point the VAT will apply. I say we debate this, we don't propose rejection. We think it's a matter of debate. Although the European Union's regulation allows us to see whether this is reasonable. And the second thing I'm sure we'll want to discuss in detail is the inspection reports. The Ministry of Finance estimates an administrative burden of around 1.4 billion in its explanatory report. to the business sector, saying that there are companies that provide economic software that have already told the Ministry of Finance that they will provide it for free. So I think it wouldn't be possible in the debate to make it public, so even businessmen know who's gonna do it for free. But once again, the question we're going to want to debate - if it has to be for everyone. If it must also be for those who pay VAT, not just for those who have an excessive deduction. If we can't lower the burden after all. Alternatively, we would impose this obligation only on the sectors where carousel fraud occurs. This means, it is not that we reject it as a whole, but we will want to have fun in the committee debate if we cannot narrow it down so that we do not put up again with the honest ones, the small ones who pay honestly, have no problem, and we will impose a new obligation on them - in good intentions to fight tax evasion. [[unintelligible]] So these two things, I'm telling you, we're going to want to debate in detail. We will be happy to find agreement on some amendments, but we will support the bill as a whole until further reading. I would just ask in this debate that it should not be extremely backwards government, but that we should really try, in my opinion, to discuss the material comments or material questions that we raise with both of these measures. With the others, I have nothing to comment on at this point in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u9	Thank you. Mr Volný Member has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u10	Hello, Mr President, colleagues, I would like to load and ask for this approval to shorten the time for committee discussions to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u11	Thank you. I will ask if anyone else is joining the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I will ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur want the final word. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would only react briefly to Mr. Stanjura. Of course, we're ready to discuss it. We discussed within the Ministry the limit of cash for which citizens buy electronics. It's 5,000 in Germany. EUR, there were also opinions in Slovakia to put it on the same level as we put in the amendment on the possibility of how much there is to pay in cash, so, of course, we are open to that. The main problem of our budget and the losses from VAT fraud are fuel. Coincidentally, tomorrow the German Minister of Finance, Austrian Minister of Finance, Polish, Hungarian and Slovak will come. We, as the Czech Republic, have proposed this, I have suggested it in Brussels, that this is our main objective. And that's where we're losing the biggest money, where we're fighting it, where we're trying to convince Brusel and other Member States to go for it, because we can't do it ourselves without Brusel. So, of course, we're open to discussing how it went down from Mr. Stanjura's side here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-003-036.u13	The rapporteur does not want the final word. Since there has been no motion to return or reject, we will consider the commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion of the Committee to the budgetary committee. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. So we will vote on the commandment of the Committee to the budget. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 302, registered is 146, for 115, against 1. This proposal was adopted. So we have ordered this proposal to the Committee on Budgets. And yet, in the debate, there was a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. I'm opening the vote on who's in favour of cutting the deadline, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting time is 303, registered 147, for 83, versus 1. This proposal was also adopted. So I note that we have ordered this press to the Committee on Budgets and have shortened the time limits according to the proposal. I'm done with point 36. Let's continue with the point.
