ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-005-030.u1	30. Government bill amending Act No. 191/2002 Coll., on Voluntary Service and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Voluntary Service Act), as amended (the House Press 76/ - First Reading) On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. I beg you to take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-005-030.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, please allow me, on the authority of the government, to present a government bill amending the Voluntary Service Act. The Government's bill was drafted to adapt the voluntary service law to re-codified private law. It also takes into account the requirements laid down in the Government's resolution to ensure that the Voluntary Service Act also applies to traditional voluntary work in non-state non-profit organisations on the principle of a Member State, in schools and educational establishments, and the requirement to establish certificates of certified working experience acquired during voluntary activities. The Government would like to ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies to propose to the Chamber of Deputies a shorter time limit for discussing the bill by a committee or committees of 30 days, taking into account the incompatibility of certain institutes of the Voluntary Service Act with a revised private law. For example, new legal forms of legal entities that have difficulty obtaining accreditation and existing accredited organisations cannot make full use of the possibility of changing their legal form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-005-030.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanc for his opening words and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, Madame, you have the floor on your intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-005-030.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been appointed rapporteur for the Government Bill amending Act No. 198/2002 Coll., on Voluntary Service, House Press 76. As we have heard here, the aim of the amendment is to ensure the possibility of applying the Voluntary Service Act in connection with the recodification of private law in relation to the law, namely the Civil Code and the Commercial Corporations Act and the tasks arising from Government Resolution No. 611/2007 and No. 108/2013. The new Civil Code and the Act on Commercial Corporations introduces some new forms of legal entities into the Czech legal system or alters the content of existing ones, to which the proposed amendment responds. The minister here has told us what this is about. In conclusion, I would only evaluate the amendment to the Voluntary Service Act. This amendment is not demanding, it contains a minimum of changes that only respond to new legal conditions and adopted laws or other measures. The legislation of private law legal entities, including non-state non-profit organisations, which are now the new subjects of the Voluntary Service Act, changes fundamentalally. These non-profit organizations are in the position of so-called sending organisations under the Voluntary Service Act which may have an accredited speech or programme under this Act. This amendment is not difficult, as I said a moment ago, and does not significantly interfere with the content or meaning of volunteer service, on the contrary, trying to maintain this in new conditions, does not force the subjects concerned to make any rapid changes, and is therefore also applicable within a very short period of time. At the same time, however, there will not be such fundamental changes as the voluntary service law would need. The adoption of the proposed amendment will allow the full applicability of the law, as it responds adequately to the new legal environment as set out in the new Civil Code and the Commercial Corporation Act. In conclusion, however, I must state that I consider this proposal to be only a small amendment, and I assume that the Government will provide us with a completely new legislation in the future on volunteering throughout its scope and express its support for all forms of volunteering. The law must include general arrangements for volunteering and, on the other hand, accredited volunteering. The benefits arising now from the voluntary service law should extend to the whole spectrum of volunteering. These are, in particular, tax advantages and the possibility of co-financing projects from the state budget by quantifying voluntary work. Failure to adopt the draft law with effect as soon as possible will result in partial non-compliance with the voluntary service law with the revised private law. New legal forms of legal entities will not be able to obtain accreditation. Existing accredited organisations will not be able to take advantage of the possibilities of changing their legal form in order to meet their needs better. In the event that they do so, they will have to be withdrawn from accreditation, which will complicate their drawing of subsidies and cause their financial destabilisation. For these reasons, I also propose to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to shorten the deadline for discussing the bill by committee or committees by 30 days, and I propose that the Committee on Social Policy be discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-005-030.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. At the same time, before we start it, I'll read two more apologies. Mrs Balaštíková and Mr Vondráček apologize from 11.30 pm for work reasons. At the same time, I will ask my colleagues for peace so that we can discuss further steps in this law. Mrs Gabriela Pecková is the first to be included in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-005-030.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on the rapporteur's words. Indeed, the voluntary service law will require complex transformations, but I think that we might be able to relieve a little bit of the newly called sending organisations now. It is the fact that in this draft law, the period for which accreditation is granted to these organisations is three years. However, since the grant cannot be applied for for the year in which this accreditation ends and the deadline for submitting the grant application is 30 September, it is de facto necessary to apply for an extension of the accreditation not after three years, what is its period of validity but after two years, in order to be able to apply for the grant at the same time. I have nothing against shortening the time of committee discussions, but I would like to see this proposal submitted to the Committee on Social Policy, and at second reading I would like to sign up and make an amendment where the accreditation period of three years would be extended to four years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-005-030.u7	Thank you, Mrs Gabriela Pecková. I have no further written application for the debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I see no one, so I can end the debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final word - Minister, rapporteur? It's not like that. There was no motion to return or refuse. The rapporteur's report made a proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days. So we will consider the suggestions for the commandments. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Social Policy Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We can proceed to the vote, with the number 74 that I have begun to vote, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment of the Committee on Social Policy. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 74, from 157 in favour of 128, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on a reduction in the deadline for discussion of 30 days. We will decide in the vote number 75, which I have just begun, and I ask who is 30 days in favour of shortening the deadline. Who's against it? Voting order number 75, from the present 158 for 100, against 8. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy and the deadline for its discussion has been reduced by 30 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am finished with item No. 30. Before the next point begins, there is another apology, an apology from Mr Martin Novotný, who, for work reasons, apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We are now at point No. 2 which is
