ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u1	2. Civil Service Act 71/15/ - returned by the President of the Republic The opinion of the President of the Republic, stating his opposition to this law, was delivered to you as House Press 71/16. First, I ask the representatives of Mr Roman Sklenák's plaintiffs if he wants to comment on the President's position. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, I am sure you have all come to know the President's position. In the justification of his veto, he referred in particular to his speech, which he had here in the Chamber of Deputies in the second numerous. His reservations concern, in particular, the Institute of Deputy Members of the Government, the so-called political deputy. He also expressed concern that this law will not result in sufficient depoliticisation of the state administration. I, both the petitioner and the social democracy club, do not identify with this position of the President. On the contrary, we believe that there will be a major depoliticisation of the state administration, and we will therefore vote in favour of the House version, as we have approved it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u3	I thank Mr Roman Sklenák as representatives of the plaintiffs. And now I ask whether the rapporteur of the constitutional law committee, Mr Jan Chvojka, wants to comment on the opinion of the resident gradually. It's not like that. Furthermore, rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Věra Kovářová. I don't see interest either. I therefore open a general debate in which I register two priority rights. First of all, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'll take less time than a factual point. We made a political agreement. Our club will keep the political agreement and we will vote against the President's veto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now another with priority rights, President of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, and Úsvit voted only in this Chamber of Deputies against the Civil Service Act. I would say again, but very briefly, repeat the reasons, for a few minutes indeed. First of all, we reject political deputies in the state administration. I'll just say two sentences. Here, the government coalition, respectively, the new ODS coalition, TOP 09, YES, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL, claims that there are no political representatives. So let's remember these two sentences. The head of the state administration is the Deputy Minister of the Interior for Civil Service. This will be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Prime Minister for a period of six years. Independence zero. In addition, how can this deputy be removed? A civil servant may be dismissed if he violates service discipline, or, and this is remarkable, he commits guilty conduct that undermines the dignity of his duties. And it's not specified how. Or you can call him off at any time. When he's suddenly disobedient and doesn't listen politically. So that's the political deputy for civil service, first of all. We refuse. We wanted and proposed, and this amendment was rejected here, so that at that time the Director-General of Civil Service, now the new Deputy Minister of Civil Service, should be appointed by the President on a proposal from the Government, so that we could separate it, to make it more independent, more depoliticized. Second, the Dawn movement rejects political deputy ministers. It's gonna be crawling with them. And once again, I quote that sentence from the law: the Minister may appoint two of his political deputys, which are not covered by the Service Act. It's clearly formulated there. They're political deputies and the Dawn movement, I say again, rejecting political deputies, politicians, political traders, political deputies at state offices. There's supposed to be experts in state offices. It's the state administration paid for by taxpayers' taxes. And you, you five political parties in this House, are engulfing the state administration with political nominees. You embezzled many of you about why you went to the election you promised the voters. This is a huge disappointment to me, and I must say that the only Úsvit movement is holding this line and rejecting the politicisation of the state administration. That's where the experts are supposed to be. There's supposed to be a long-term vision of state administration, a professional government that won't change depending on how political guarantees change. Thirdly, we also reject political secretaries at ministries. So the political deputy for the civil service is there, the political deputy for the ministries, as well as the political secretaries. There wasn't much talk of them here. There's a lot of them. And again, I'm just gonna read the two sentences from the law. They are appointed by the government on a proposal from the relevant member of the government. This, of course, significantly reduced the independence of the state administration. The State Secretary is in charge of organizational and personnel issues at the Ministry. This means, once again, political functions, once again a political trader, once again absolute political supervision in ministries and in state administration. And lastly, we also reject the political selection of civil servants. That's not what we're talking about here either, so only three sentences from the law again. The three-member committee, where two members are selected by the politically appointed Secretary of State, out of three two, only selects the three most suitable candidates. In order to ensure that the selection procedure does not get out of hand, a new innovation is introduced that the selection committee does not identify the best, but, in case of three, so that it does not go wrong at that stage. And from these three candidates, the Secretary of State has been selected by the politically appointed staff. Previously, the results of the selection procedure were binding on the State Secretary. They won't be new. There is therefore an open space for other political traders. I say that we reject, summarized, both the political deputy for civil service and the political deputy for ministries, as well as the political secretaries for ministries, as well as the political selection of civil servants. It's a terrible law, it's a crazy thing that a new coalition of five parties has demonstrated here, and the Úsvit movement will support the veto of the President of the Republic. We really refuse to vote, we remain here as the last Mohicans, we refuse to vote in favour of politicizing the state administration. And if this president's veto is overruled here and the President of the Republic decides to file a constitutional complaint, the Dawn movement will be happy to join it. We're gonna fight political junkies in the government until our last breath. We're the only ones left who voted against, but that's okay. We're the smallest, but we'll fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u7	Thank you to President Okamur. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Mr Jan Klán is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that this year, for the last time, I will come before you with the opinion of the KSČM Parliamentary Club on the present Civil Service Act. I will not quite criticize the law of service here, as the chairman of the Úsvit movement did here, but I will speak constructively here. But to remember, of course, what the law brings, what its flaws are and, of course, what its positives are. President Miloš Zeman vetoed the law of service a few days ago and returned it back to the Chamber of Deputies for further consideration. It's his veto. If the veto passes, there will be a minor problem. If the veto fails, the service law will apply in the form of leaving the Chamber of Deputies. For his veto, President Miloš Zeman had quite strong arguments. He is bothered by the political representatives, the way in which the service law was discussed in the legislative process, and many other things. [[11.10 hours]] I just want to remind you here that we share these complaints with him, of course, because we have pointed them out many times over the whole year when the service law was discussed here. When I think of the very beginning and the story of the Service Act, which, I think, is already here in the Chamber of Deputies, for the last time, I wonder where it all came from. First, at the end of last year, the lex Babiš phenomenon, the condition of President Miloš Zeman, into all this depoliticizing the state administration. When it was discussed here in January, we thought fine, it would be nice, it would be the General Directorate of State Services, as it was written in the 2002 Law. And the Directorate-General or any other similar body, it doesn't matter what it would be called, would be an umbrella body. On this principle was also the service law of 2002 and, of course, the service law prepared by Minister Dienstbier. At first, this law seemed to be adopted without a problem. But the hot summer of 2014 came and the blocking of Parliament by the right-wing opposition and de facto abuse of the Rules of Procedure, when it simply blocked the third-reading vote on this service law by constantly obstructing it, because it saw the establishment of the Directorate-General as a threat to democracy. However, I can tell you with knowledge that there was no threat to democracy. That there are states in Europe that have the principle of the Directorate-General of State Services, or it doesn't matter what it's called. It's got Poland, it's got France, Belgium, even part United Kingdom. I don't know what the threat to democracy was. Instead, we somehow took over such a hybrid, when we were inspired partly in Germany, partly in Slovakia, and we added our own specialty to it. I don't think this Czech specialty will work properly. We really should have inspired ourselves in some way either completely, for example, in France, or when already in Germany or Slovakia and somehow take over the whole thing. Of course, you can also work on your laws, as they normally were adopted. And now let's say what is wrong in the current form of the service law. It's a lot of things, but let's remember the essentials. Let's start with the most important and constantly rejuvenated, and they're the political deputy. Any minister can bring two of his political deputys to the Ministry at most. But he doesn't have to have them. But if he's gonna have them there, it's gonna mean we're basically gonna have three ministers. Because political representatives don't have a clear agenda to perform, I can't imagine what they're going to do there. Moreover, it seems to me that it is a good trade for friends, whether the previous government coalition, which was here until 2013, or the current government coalition. It doesn't matter, no matter what everyone takes. We referred to this as a KSČ throughout the course of the hearing. Now let's stop at that number, why two? Why not just one. That'll have to do. And once again, there was an argument - in Germany, they have political deputies. But when we look at Germany in the area, it is a much larger state than the Czech Republic. They have one, we have two. So to be a rarity in Europe again, we're going to have two political representatives. Of course, we tried to reduce it to that number one, but our amendment was not adopted at third reading. If there wasn't one, it would, of course, be even better, because in our opinion, the Ministry is covering the minister and he should somehow do it. Of course, he should have his own team in his own way, but which he will bring to his secretariat. Now also the relationship of political and expert deputy at ministries. If I imagine the committee meeting here in the Chamber of Deputies, and according to the bill, even the minister may not be present there unless we specifically ask for it, it will have to be represented by the political deputy, but also by the deputy. I find that completely misguided. So it may be that we will not see either the political deputy or the minister or the minister on the committee to balance it genderically, and we will still see the expert deputy or the chief executive. So there's a paradox where we just don't see these people at all at these meetings unless we specifically ask for it. And if the political deputy isn't there, and that's not what the law says, we can just require the Minister's personal presence. Not a political deputy. He should be there automatically, but he doesn't have to, as the law clearly doesn't. That's the word "may" right there. He can represent. I don't know what you're imagining under the word can, but I'd say it has to. If the minister can't, he'll just have to be represented by the political deputy. There's these simple loopholes, and when it's misinterpreted, everyone can interpret it their way. Another problem I pointed out in the discussion of the Service Act is the so-called exception to the assumption of education. If, under this new law, the state administration is to translate into a new regime since the New Year, then friends who do not have the necessary qualifications in a given position may remain in the given positions, provided that one or the other worker has proven himself in a given position for a long time. I have asked here many times in the discussion of this law what the word "long term" has proved. I can imagine five years, ten years, in the last ten years, five years. That number should really be there, because in that case, it could be a year, two years and a few months in the long run, and that person can stay there all the time without satisfying the given education in a given position. Again, I tried to soften this disorder in a way by putting the number in it. However, this amendment of mine did not pass either. When I asked about the phenomenon as a kind of petitioner at the public administration committee's meeting, I was told that this exception could only be used once by workers. But I didn't know who was going to control it and when this exception could be used. Whether from 1. 1. 2015 - what period will be there, if possible if it can be used in two years. That's not what the law says. Now I'm getting to the "police of fear," as we say. Just to the ODS and TOP 09 deal. The law of service, as I said, was invented by a crossbreed, which was simply made from the German law of service, from the Slovak law of service, to all of this in some way the design of the 2002 law and all the powers were transferred to the Ministry of the Interior, as the right-wing opposition demanded. And it's gonna be that super-counsel for civil service nicely at the Ministry of the Interior, and it's gonna be the most powerful Ministry of the Interior in history. I think that the former Interior Minister for the ODS Ivan Langer would undoubtedly be very pleased if the Ministry could manage this. But we must remind ourselves that the Ministry of the Interior has no direct connection with the administration's performance. The section on public administration and legislation has only the authority over the territory of the State, the coordinating role in the performance of public administration entrusted to the authorities of the territory of the self-government and the coordinating role for information and communication technologies. Everything is derived from the so-called competence law on the establishment of ministries and other central government bodies. But, in order not to just criticize the law of service, there are, of course, a number of advantages in the service law in this form. Let's just say which ones they are and in a nutshell. The most significant change that we welcome is the reduction of the amount of remuneration to 25 percent of the annual income, which is a very good thing, and of course the introduction of an administrative exam. A clerk, if he works for the state, should have a written exam. Of course, we also promote and promote and welcome access to competitions from lower local authorities. However, even here there is a certain loop when there is a provision for a special surcharge and there is no indication of its maximum level. [[11.20 hours]] The current form of law is thus very imperfect. In our opinion, the Law of 2002 and partly the original proposal from Minister Jiří Dienstbier's workshop were much more sophisticated. Now let's ask ourselves whether something will happen when the President's veto passes. The veto may not be overvoted. Of course, I have heard the representatives of the right-wing opposition vote in favour of the Service Act in the wording that has left the House, but it may be that some will not raise their hand. That's what we found in the review of the amendment law. Then I must ask myself what happens when President Zeman vetoes the implementing laws of the Service Act, if there are 101 votes in the Chamber of Deputies to vote the veto. I'm just saying that as a rhetorical question. If the veto passes, the law of 2002 should theoretically apply. However, it will not start any more because certain provisions have been repealed, because at the moment the Director-General should be chosen, start establishing the Directorate-General and other things, as stated in the 2002 Law. So it could happen that from 1. 1. we would not have any form of service law, whatever form it may be, and in that case it would probably threaten to stop drawing subsidies from the European Union. And now let's say who, in its essence, controlled the negotiation of the service law. It was a right-wing opposition that clearly set its conditions, and the government coalition gave way to absolutely everything. In conclusion, let me introduce you to the President's veto procedure of the KSČM Parliamentary Club. From the very beginning, KSČM criticized the submitted service law and tried to correct its vices, however, none of the vices was, unfortunately, corrected, which is a great pity for our Republic and the entire state service, the state administration. We are aware that the law of service is needed by our country. We have had a lot of debates about this, and I can tell you that we will still hold a neutral position, because we are aware that our country needs the service law. We are the only country in Europe that has no service law in any form whatsoever. I can promise you I'll be from 1. 1. when the service law comes into effect, monitor closely how it is implemented into the public administration and public administration, and I will clearly point out the vices that may lead to the destabilisation of the state administration and perhaps to a relatively large confusion. And in that case, I regret the officials and I regret other people in the state administration. That would be about everything from my position, and, as I said before, the KSČM Club holds a neutral position on the draft Civil Service Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u9	I thank Mr Klán. I now have two factual points and with the Prime Minister's right of priority. So, first of all, with the de facto remark of Mr Laudát, Mr Vondráček after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to use strong words here because citizen Šlechtová asked us to be more polite. So what the previous speaker said about the obstructions in the summer - most of us were sitting here, sitting here. I guess I was at another meeting because I was on behalf of the TOP 09 Club, and there was no obstruction in the case of the Service Act. There were long hauls here because the coalition messed up the program, didn't get ready, called an emergency meeting, and, as far as I know, the disputes concerned the excise duty on fuel, namely the proposal of a coalition MP. So what obstruction? And I think it's perfectly legitimate, first of all. Secondly, the perfectly legitimate thing is that we are here to promote our views, and I see nothing wrong with the fact that a coalition has been negotiated with a part of the opposition, with the opposition - in fact, you are not opposition. And the result was some kind of compromise. We have made it clear that we have retreated in this regard with regard to the Deputys. I don't know where you'll find political deputies in that law. But you'll be surprised, I understand the position of the part of the coalition that claims it, unlike the ANO movement. When people feel like they're hearing something wrong, they just turn their minds, and it's not our fault, because the other two partners... Classic display of populism. Anyway, I don't think if there's a lunatic in some department somewhere, why not be guarded by coalition partners? So it's not exactly that. And another one. Every coalition minister has been cleaning up since 1990, and every minister has the right to bring his team. Mr. Prachař brought his team in, and it's what happens. Mr. Babiš brought his wagenknechts there, so wish him well, it's his decision, it's his people. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u11	I thank Mr Laudát. With another factual remark, Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would use the technical remarks, rather to respond to the speech of Mr Klán's previous speaker. I would like to assure him through Mr President that if he was worried about the 101 votes, I would like to use that technical remark and say that the YES movement will vote against the rejection of the President of the Republic, against the veto. We are united in this. My performance will be similar to that of my colleague Stanjura. The political agreement that has been reached here has value. The compromise that we have reached is a promise that we will have a stable government here. We may have minor doctrinal disagreements about what the state administration was supposed to look like, but I think that the fact that we've been able to agree is a great chance that the government will work for us, and after the next election, we won't have to change the Civil Service Act again depending on how the elections turn out. So we will vote against the President's veto for the YES movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u13	I thank Mr Vondráček. With another factual remark, Mr Okamura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us stop playing hide and seek. Just five political parties agreed that hundreds of their fellow party members could anchor hundreds of their different friends to the state administration. This is where you found the intersection of common interests, because, of course, these people will vote for you, including families, etc. That's the practice that's been here so far. So far, the political parties have been professionals. Please don't make excuses, even silence is consent. We can't vote for principled bad things, whether it's a deal or not. It's not like that. The Service Act was here on the table. If we don't accept this one, we're going to start paying the previous one from 1. 1. 2015, I'd like to remind you of that. So they're just excuses, excuses to say that sadly, even the new political parties liked it when they could anchor their people into the state administration, they liked it so that they could also have political traders, all these five parties. And that's it. So let's pour some pure wine and stop making excuses, it's just a total politicization of the state administration, where they're politically nominated. Most posts can be named politically, regardless of the expertise. That's all. And all for taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u15	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Now with priority rights Mr. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would only like a few replicas of my previous speakers' speeches. I would be very happy to have my colleague Okamura observe a swarm of two possible political or so-called. political representatives at ministries, where there are hundreds of employees. I was very pleased when Mr Klán, through Mr President, with both gentlemen, would be able to control and monitor the implementation of the diction of the law. [[11.30 hours]] I would just like to remind you why we have adopted the law in this form, and I very much appreciate the political agreement that has been made here. We approved this law primarily in order that the Czech Republic should finally have and defend its position with the European Commission. This is not a clash about two pseudopolitical deputys who are not explicitly named in this law. I would like to remind the critics of this standard that the same provision is borne by the 2002 Law. This is no fiction of this Chamber of Deputies. This has been part of the Czech legal system since 2002. For this reason, I think that any constitutional action against this paragraph, on this matter, is irrelevant. So does our lawyers' reviews. The main and fundamental task of this amendment is to clearly prove to Europe that we have a law in which the public service and the public service are moving, and to be able to draw on the European money that the Czech Republic will probably have for the last time in the next planning period. Definitely to this extent, in which he is planned. That is the main reason for this standard. Let me also comment on whether Ivan Langer would be happy to have such a large ministry. I'm not happy. I got it as a mission that we did. I think some colleagues here are talking about what happened back in Ivan Langer's day. During the time of Ivan Langer, it certainly would not have happened that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic would have held a discussion with all the political parties, that they were all invited to comment. And my colleague Klán and I remember sitting at the Ministry of the Interior, discussing precisely this standard with the KSČM club, discussing the problems, and I think that we have dealt with many of them. It's certainly not about not listening to the voice of the opposition. We're creating a standard here, which is supposed to last this term, we're creating a standard here, which is supposed to give the basis for the civil service, but we all know that this law will be amended in the course of the process if it turns out that some amendment is needed. That's all. Please, let us not drop this standard, which is important for the Czech Republic, only on a kind of pseudoprecedence and pseudo-problem of two political representatives. These people are supposed to represent the minister, and if that minister isn't a complete fool, he's gonna take people capable, people hardworking to carry out his duties, because the disgrace of that minister is their inaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u17	Thank you, Minister Chovanc. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Klán, with a proper application by Mr Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to respond to the Minister's words. I'd like to ask him if it was almost any of our comments we had on the service bill that were settled, so I'm not taking it away from him. However, we also had our own requirements, which concerned mainly the central authorities of the state administration, in order to § 2 para. 1 unified. Our comments have not been settled. That's what I'm saying out loud here. The only thing that was incorporated there on our proposal was that the law should not apply to the President and Vice-President of the Czech Statistical Office. When we demanded that the law not apply to the President today, but, of course, to the President of the State Office for Nuclear Safety and other central bodies of the state administration, as defined by the law of jurisdiction, no one was talking to us! Then don't be surprised that I'm criticizing this law for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u19	Thank you. With another proper application, Mr Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I will probably be more brief than my previous speakers, and I do not want to discuss here the discussion of the law of service, its individual paragraphs, provisions, long seminars or various training events, as it was pre-negotiated and when it was created, so that it was eventually adopted in a form that was completely different from the one discussed in the Czech Republic for a long time. I would like to say here that I personally consider, and it is also the opinion of a number of trade unions, the fact that the 2002 law would be much better from the point of view of employees, much more favourable and better to treat their basic employment rights. This is probably a fact and a law that has been adopted, which we will now decide whether it will therefore become part of the valid legal order of the Czech Republic, whether we overrule the veto of the President of the Republic, can at this point in my view bring more uncertainty than certainty into stabilizing employment relations in the performance of the state administration. I do not want to break down the position of the Czech Republic in relation to the European Commission and the possibility of drawing grant titles. I think he's a little bit of an artificial scarecrow. And I would like to say that I am sorry that some political parties have preferred political agreements to redistribute their influence, especially in central government bodies, the share that individual political groups will have in the long term in relation to the influence in the occupation of these positions, that there have been no ordinary government employees, who have been prescribed much worse working conditions and less certainty than in terms of valid labour lawmaking in the Czech Republic, and what I regret, in particular, is that we have again progressed on the path towards weakening the current labour code, which we have reduced exclusively to the sphere of employment, non-public and non-public. I would like to say that I also consider a much better law, which has been part of our legal order for many years, and that is a law that regulates the relations of employees of local authorities. That could be one inspiration too. I don't say these things for the first time, I don't say them at the very end. I have interpreted them on a number of working meetings, but I consider it necessary to say them here too and to say that, from my point of view, I cannot support in any way the law that we will discuss here if we overrule the President's veto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u21	I thank Mr Grospič. Another duly registered member is Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I did not understand very much the sigh of my previous speaker, who said he was sorry that some Members preferred political agreements to some diction of the law. I find it difficult to imagine how, other than a political agreement, a positive outcome of negotiations on such a standard will be achieved. The only way is a political agreement, in this case quite wide. I'm applying to hold her. So perhaps my previous speaker wanted to say: we regret that some Members have preferred political agreement with someone other than us. That's the way it would have been. If I were him, I would not despair, given that Mr Klán's club is a firm patronage of the ruling coalition, so I think they will find that political agreement many more times. I want to sign up for the political agreement that TOP 09 has concluded on this service bill, even though at the moment the main problem surrounding the presidential veto seems to be political deputy. Let me remind you that we did not want political representatives to be asked not to distinguish political and professional representatives in this law. However, the political agreement also brings compromises. We have very much appreciated that we have found a way not to establish the General Directorate of State Administration at the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, and we have not started making the Czech executive system a system of chancellor. We welcome your helpfulness with much greater throughput of tenders to individual positions in the state administration. Logically, we then retreated to a rather uncompromising request formulated by Mr Babiš, Mr Sobotka and Mr Bělobrádek that they insist on political representatives. We respect that, and we're ready to keep the deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u23	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Grospič, after which Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me thank my previous speaker through you for finally telling the truth that this was primarily an agreement, primarily an agreement on the distribution of the effects on the so-called. political or non-political, it doesn't really matter, deputies in central government bodies, because it will be the stable certainty that certain groups want to ensure a lasting influence on the performance of government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u25	Another with a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u26	I really didn't say that. And anyone who wants to read the log will find out. Sorry to keep you from doing this, but I didn't want Mr. Grospič's error or inaudibility to remain hanging in public space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u27	I thank Mr Kalousek. With another proper application, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u28	Colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I haven't gotten to him in the entire service bill period. But I can't do anything right now. I don't understand some of the moments. After all, the political agreement, in which I agree with Mr Kalousek, is the only and right way for such a thing to come about. A political agreement between us politicians who have been elected citizens of the Czech Republic and who have been given a mandate to manage the state. I apologize for the honesty, but Mr Okamura's words sound very populist to me. And I hate rhetoric like political junkies, acquaintances, friends, etc. But politicians manage the state. It is for politicians to take care of all these things. We're the politicians. We respect citizens' opinion, or we should respect it, and we have been elected and chosen to manage the state in some proportion of political parties' representation after free competition. As far as I know, the House is the fundamental body in this process or the first body that gives confidence to the government, and then the government is the executive power. And it is logical that ministers represent some kind of political mix as the citizens decided during that parliamentary term. It is therefore logical for me that ministers will also choose one, in two, in three cases their close co-workers, who once again respect the will of citizens and the political mix as the citizens have decided. They choose their closest collaborators and even the cross according to the current setting of the government coalition. So I want to ask you, let's not succumb to this rhetoric: "It's terrible to have political traders! You don't politicize the state administration!" On the contrary, let us promote our work! Don't worry, we're politicians! Let's say it out loud! And let's say that we politicians manage the state and, according to the will of citizens as politicians, we control that state! [[Let's hear it from the right.]] I don't like the rhetoric that we have to depoliticize and that we can't. I thank my colleagues for agreeing to my opinion. It's just the way I see it. On the contrary, we should promote our work as politicians, and we should stand proudly behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u29	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. Before I give the floor to Mr Okamur with a factual remark, I am yet to announce that Mr Václav Horáček has excited the discussion here so much that he broke his card and he has a replacement card number 18. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Mr Okamura's point of order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u30	Dear friends, you've mixed apples and pears with me here, and you've moved the debate. But we're not buying it. [[Laughs in the hall.]] One. Politicians running the country is fine because we are elected citizens and we have a mandate from citizens in elections! We're not talking politics here. We're talking about swaying the state administration with political nominees, i.e. people whose only classification is a party book, not expertise. So don't mix apples with pears. That politicians should be in charge when they have a mandate from citizens in the elections, I didn't question that here. Second thing. To the Minister Chovanc. I'm sorry, the Minister may have come later, but in my speech, I did not just talk about political representatives, but about the four types of politically influential positions that this Civil Service Act introduces. He is a political deputy for the civil service, and I have also quoted it by law, I will not repeat it, political representatives at ministries, political secretaries at ministries and political selection of civil servants, where, once again, the three-member commission, where two members are selected by a politically appointed secretary, does not even select the best candidate, but the three best, so that the event can still be held. to choose. That's a comment on this. Finally, once again, through Mr President, to Mr Kolovratník. I don't know if you can count well. And you can because you're the President of the Election Commission. But honourable Members YES, even without your votes, this political agreement could be voted out by other parties. So if you're against politicizing the state administration, your votes are not needed in this case, because the other four sides without problems will put most of it together. So don't make excuses. It is a political agreement on political traders, and you supported it with your votes. Even silence is consent. And if you're against it, you vote against it or you don't participate, and it'll pass anyway. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u31	Thank you, Mr Okamur. With another point of fact, Mr Fiedler, after which Mr Sklenák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u32	Good morning again. So Tomio hit it in exactly two minutes, as I watched, the two minutes will be enough for me, too. Through Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr Kolovratník. And I'm thinking, basically, that would be the answer for Minister Chovanec to his last sentence, which he said here, that everyone would choose some reasonable deputies to take with them. I'd like Mr. Kolovratník to listen to politicians run it. [[He listens with a smile]] Politicians, these are the political parties, Mr. Colleague. I saved it on September 5th, so it was probably on the teletext of Czech Television on September 4th. It was probably on page 151: Firms that donate money to political parties gain about 50 percent more public contracts than comparable companies that do not contribute to political parties. This is reported in the research of the Applied Economics Centre, according to which the study shows a high risk of conflict of interest. They have developed a complete database of donations to political parties in recent years and have linked it to information on procurement, subsidies and other risk factors. The results point to a fundamental problem in the system of financing and control of political parties. - The chairman of the association Jiří Skuhrovec. So here, my colleague, through Mr President, you can see what it looks like when the politicians are running it. They play home to their own political parties. Those are the political deputy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u33	I thank Mr Fiedler. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Sklenák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u34	Thank you. I would like to make a really factual point, because after all the downfalls have been tilted by politicization, political newsmen, political friends, I really need to remind everyone here what the current situation is and what the state will be after the adoption of the Civil Service Act. After all, today all civil servants are subject to the Labour Code. That's how their employment is managed. In the leading positions it is possible to appoint and recall workers basically without giving any reason. And that is precisely what has often happened, that one group of people has been called off and replaced by another, and that is where it has been said that it is being politicised. In the event that the Civil Service Act is adopted, it will apply to all of them, and there are precisely defined appointing procedures, and there are also grounds for appeal by law. If he has a negative service evaluation, he has some corrective mechanisms there, etc. That's what it's all about. So if someone here is saying that after the parliamentary elections, the Minister will come to the Ministry and bring two people he chooses, and basically the rest will be preserved, then that is a fundamental difference to the current situation. And it is clearly protection against politics. If we're bothered by this or somebody, then there might not be an election at all, we could skip the politicians, and we should have the government here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u35	Mr Kalousek, Mr Plzák, Mr Klán, followed by Mr Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u36	Thank you. With President Sklenák in most of his performances, we can only agree. That's probably why your Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has called off an extremely competent head of the Labor Office today. I had different opinions with Mrs. Marie Bílková, but what I always had to acknowledge was her exceptional professional competence and erudition. You were probably worried that a competent person would remain fixed up by the Civil Service Act, and you need to throw it out and put someone closer to the party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u37	I thank Mr Kalousek. Furthermore, Mr Plzák, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will raise a hypothetical question. We're talking about a service bill to stabilize the state administration. People in the state administration are supposed to be going through some career process, building a position gradually. But I already had one such question during the hearing that I didn't get an answer. What happens to a man who's been building his career for 15 years and then doesn't defend his leading position in the tender? Will there be a place for him in the state administration, or will he leave with a severance package, and after 15 years of career-building, we're gonna lose this guy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u39	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Mr Klán, Mr Fiedler, has also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u40	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to respond by means of you to Mr Sklenák. There's one thing I want to ask you. From 1. 1., when the state administration translates into a new system, there you will preserve your current friends. And that is what allows for the exception to the assumption of education - for two years. That's actually there, at least that's the interpretation. Of course, the service law aims at depoliticizing the state administration. I agree with you when there are specifically two political deputys, well, to this day, it was done by all the politicians. I understand that. However, they will still remain there for at least two years, there will be preservation of the current condition, friends - all the time, for two years. That's just how it was written in the law. When I asked the committee about it, no one could answer that question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u41	Mr Fiedler, Mr Kalousek after him, Mr Pilný after him, Mr Bendl after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u42	I promise, Mr President, I will be very short. I would particularly like to thank the honourable Member by means of you that, in fact, by what Mr Kalousek said earlier, how he described the case at the Labour Office, if I understood correctly, he confirmed what we are saying is a political intention to have his politically related friends there. You have indeed confirmed this, through the President, Mr colleague. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u43	I thank Mr Fiedler. Mr Kalousek now, Mr Pilný after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u44	You must have thanked me in vain, through the President, Mr Fiedler. What you said is not the point of the Service Act. What you said was undoubtedly a pointless personnel decision that exploits the fact that the Service Act will enter into force. But it's not the service law, it's the personnel decision that has no logic. This is the same as what Mr Klán says. He's talking about abuse of the fact that he's gonna start paying the service bill. I'm afraid he's right about a lot of things. On the other hand, Mr. Ambassador, their friends are also your friends. Mauglí would say you're one blood.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u45	Thank you. Mr. Pilný's microphone, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not participate in the debate on depoliticizing the state administration. On the Service Act, I resented the fact that an amendment was not adopted which would open up selection procedures for people from the academic and commercial sphere so as to bring new alternatives and new winds into the state administration. However, the last text and the comment on how the CEO of the Labour Office had just been called off convinced me that I would respect the political agreement and vote in favour of voting over the President's veto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u47	Thank you. Please Mr Bendl, then Mr Komárek will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u48	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few sentences from my own experience on this subject. I feel like we're moving a little bit on the edge of populism. I believe that the Minister of the Czech Government, whether left-wing, right-wing or whatever else, has the competence to decide how the Ministry should behave. He has a political responsibility, and he has a team of people who are able to tell what kind of assignment he wants, and if people, by virtue of his deputy, are doing their part correctly, because his role and decision-making came out of the elections, and every minister arises on the basis of the emergence of a government that comes out of the elections, he should have a chance and competence to decide who his closest co-workers are. We're talking about political newsrooms and stuff. I don't see the role of deputy as a political newsstand. I simply know a number of ministerial servants, where the agenda they have is quite broad, and they are not people who would be paid for nothing. These are people who have to perform relatively complex administrative tasks, and I see no reason why this should be seen as a political trader. On the contrary, I am convinced that the Minister should not be the bearer of wreaths, that if any committee wants to call the Minister's meeting to ask him how the Ministry will behave, then it must be the Minister who has the competence to decide inside the Ministry. I do not wish and did not wish for the Directorate-General of State officials to be here, I consider that stupid and it is good that this has not happened, and therefore I will support the law as it passed the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u49	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Mr. Komárek's microphone, please. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, given the development of the preferences of some parties, I deeply understand Mr Kalousek's interest in the employment office. But I don't know if he knows how labor offices work. I had the opportunity to get acquainted with this in a year's work. Authorities actually work badly. So if someone who was responsible was called away, maybe he was competent, maybe he wasn't, I don't know, it was definitely a good thing. And I hope that we will end this debate and we will finally vote after almost 13 years of service law, which is certainly imperfect as all human works, and we are only human, but it will certainly move this country forward a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u51	I thank you and please to the microphone with the de facto Mr Opálka. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u52	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I did not want to discuss this issue, but I have to look back on what Mr Komárek said. The fact that the labor authorities work is the credit of all the officials who work there. Most women who have had to deal with the coups that were invented in the previous Chamber of Deputies, at the expense of their free time, at the expense of their families, deserve to be thanked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u53	Thank you. And with priority rights, Mr Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u54	Thank you for the floor. If it is no longer factual, I would still like to say, during the Dawn movement, how we will vote and why. However, the discussion here today was very inspiring and forced me to try to formulate the definition of the political agreement that Mr Kalousek here indicated. So I can say that we are sorry that you have preferred a political agreement that allows party secretariats to maintain political control of state administration, public space and public funds that are flowing through, for example, the ministries. In our view, policy is to be implemented through legislative standards and not through political representatives. We're going back somewhere before 1989, when everyone -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u55	Ambassador, I apologize and ask you to interrupt your speech until the House calms down. Which is what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, the last sentence. We believe that policy is to be implemented through legislative standards. The Chamber of Deputies is to approve legislative standards and the ministries are to implement them. Not through political deputies. We return before 1989, when each institution had a political secretary. We all remember that. So now, about how the Dawn movement is going to vote. The Dawn Movement will not vote against the President's veto. In our opinion, this veto is quite appropriate. Once this whole legislative process is over, the Dawn movement will turn to the Constitutional Court with a solution to this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-006-002.u57	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. No one, therefore, is finished with the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic states that if the Chamber of Deputies insists on the passed law by an absolute majority of all Members, the law shall be declared. Otherwise, the law was not adopted. I'm asking the service to set the necessary number of votes for approval to 101. That's right. We will vote on the next motion for a resolution. Before I do this, I ask you all to register again, because I've checked you out. Excellent. So the motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies insists on the Civil Service Act under House Press 71/15'. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 59, to which 166 are registered, of which 123 are registered, against 12. I state that the resolution has been adopted and the law will be declared. [[Let's hear it.]] Now we're going to continue at a point.
