ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u1	50. Senate bill on sales time in retail and wholesale /house print 275/ - first reading We received the Government's position as press 275/1. The motion submitted is justified by Senator František Bublan, whom I welcome here. [[Noise in the hall.]] And I beg him to take the floor. Senator, it's up to you. And I'm asking for peace, so that those who were excited about discussing the last point can get their enthusiasm out of the O.R. Please take a noose to the left of me led by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to dissolve as well. [[They don't. Members in the area are therefore warned.]] Mr. Secretary and others! [[They've responded.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the Senate bill on retail and wholesale selling time, otherwise it is also called the Act on restrictions on selling time on selected holidays. This is a reduction in sales time in defined wholesale and retail stores in the law designated by public holidays, as defined in Law No. 245/2000 Sb. According to this Act, public holidays and other holidays are working quiet days, and the employer can order work at this time only for the performance of the required work that cannot be done on working days. The intention of this law is to adjust this relationship and to approach, at least in part, standards that are absolutely common, perhaps even stronger, in other European countries. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The main objective of this law is to limit the selling time in retail and wholesale so as to impose a general ban on sales on listed holidays and to shorten the sale on Christmas Eve until 12 o'clock. These are the following days: January 1st, New Year and Day of renewal of the independent Czech state, Easter Monday, May 8th - Day of victory, September 28th - Day of Czech statehood, October 28th - Day of establishment of the independent Czechoslovak state, December 25th - 1st Christmas holiday, December 26th - 2nd Christmas holiday. On Christmas Eve, the sale would be limited to 12 hours. It is therefore proposed to prohibit sales only in seven days of the year. So we are not going the way of some surrounding states where sales are prohibited every Sunday plus on selected holidays. This restriction would not apply to outlets whose area does not exceed 200 square metres, service stations, pharmacies, airport outlets, train and bus stations, medical outlets and would not be prohibited at a time when a state of danger, emergency situation, state of threat or state of war would be declared. However, the restriction would also apply to pawnshops, waste collections and establishments trading used goods, irrespective of the size of the selling time. Economic impact. At first glance, it may seem that the revenue of the state budget will be reduced from taxing profits on sales, but it can be assumed that possible sales will be shifted to smaller sellers in these seven days or to other working days, so that there may not be a tax loss. In addition, higher revenues in tourism and other leisure services can be assumed. I assume the social impact is very favourable. Free days will not only be for employees of affected shops, but also for other people opportunities for more intensive family life and for joint trips, cultural events, sports and other activities. The proposed solution -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u3	Senator, I'm very sorry, but the noise level is back to high. [[Senator Bublan: Thank you.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u4	The proposed solution is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, it does not contradict the international agreements by which the Czech Republic is bound. European Union law does not have a common regulation on selling time, but it places emphasis on reconciliation of working and family life. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to discuss this proposal and, if necessary, release for further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u5	Thank you, Senator. The rapporteur was Mrs Květa Matušovská, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Government, Senator, fellow Members, allow me to introduce you to my report on House Press 275, Senate Bill on Sales Time in Retail and Wholesale. As has already been said, this bill addresses the issue of how to adjust the selling time in retail and wholesale, thus establishing a general ban on selling time in the holidays mentioned here, which was already mentioned by the petitioner, and of course restrictions on the sales time on Christmas Eve. The ban will not apply to stores that have already been mentioned - petrol stations, bus and train stations, medical facilities. It limits the selling time only to 200 square metres. If I focus on the impact on the citizens. The limitation of selling time will have other effects on employees of relevant retailers and wholesalers on the one hand and, on the other hand, will be impacts on citizens, consumers, customers. Impacts on employees. The petitioners draw attention to the favourable social impacts on employees who will be able to spend more time with their family and rest, which the EU places increased emphasis on. However, it is true that most employees take extras on holidays that would fall off. With very small wages in this sector, they are far from negligible. The impact on consumers can be perceived differently from the point of view of both the citizen of the big city and from the point of view of the citizen of the peripheries and rural areas. The Parliamentary Institute has already focused on this issue in recent years in its comparative study, which focuses on Denmark, Germany, Norway, Austria and Slovakia. In this study, we will find that each state has its own way of adjusting this issue, but in most states it is closed on holidays and in some countries on Sundays. [[19.20 hours]] The Government has taken a neutral position on this bill and, at the same time, points out some of the issues of this law. The government specifically objects to the intention to exclude from the proposed scheme a store whose area does not exceed 200 square metres. It is actually a substantial part of these companies, whose stores are more than 200 square metres, have mostly foreign ownership participation, and threatens to object to violations of freedom due to unequal business conditions. Secondly, the government points out that legal restrictions on the selling time should apply to all public and other holidays. It is not clear from the impact assessment of the proposed adjustment what actual effects this proposal will have on employment, for example. Furthermore, the bill also shows some formal and legislative technical shortcomings that should be eliminated in the next legislative process and recommends that Parliament address them in the legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u7	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Mr. President of the KDU-ČSL Club with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that almost everything important has already been said here, as I have listened carefully, which is good, so I have to stress that the KDU-ČSL MP will support the Senate proposal on retail and wholesale selling time, which in practice means limiting sales time on selected holidays. I will not forgive one small remark that I am quite interested in the key that led to the selection of selected holidays, and maybe we will learn it, or maybe the selection can expand over time, as is the case in some of the countries also mentioned. It was also said that the restriction would not apply unconditionally to all stores, but only to those whose area thus exceeds 200 square metres. I understand that there are different views on this matter. I don't think it's a topic either left-wing or right-wing or religious, it's a subject that might deserve some sort of sociological research of its own. However, I believe that the proposal can contribute to the reconciliation of family and working life, and this is what KDU-ČSL has long been reporting to do. To conclude, I would just like to add that with some delay, we are simply following the Western European countries, including those that are culturally and historically closest to us, such as Germany, Austria and others. There has also been talk about the European Union, so we will also align with these trends with the adoption of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u9	Good evening. I thank Prime Minister Mihol. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u10	Thank you for the floor. I have received several calls to shorten my speech, so I will also shorten it. We can see from the number of entries that there will be a great deal of interest in the debate. We all went to school, we all go to doctors and we like to talk about these topics, we all go shopping too, so I guess everyone also wants to talk about this topic. However, I would like to touch on a few points from this Senate proposal. The Senate proposal prohibits the sale in shops on eight listed holidays: New Year's Eve, Easter Monday, May 8, September 28, October 28, Christmas holidays, 24 a.m. until 12 p.m., Christmas Christmas Day and Stephen all day long. And it's about a shop over 200 square meters, as I see in the design here. It does not concern pharmacies and health establishments, filling stations and shops where the passenger concentration is increased. I would like to know how to decide what is the place of increased passenger concentration. I didn't see that coming from the proposal, if there was a committee or something. But I think it'd be interesting to make a preconceived statement. I also wonder how, for example, pharmacies that are part of hypermarkets will be opened. Unfortunately, the pharmacy, which is part of the hypermarket, will be closed and will be in a strong competitive disadvantage of the pharmacy, which is across the street and which will, of course, be open in the days listed. A colleague of the previous speakers mentioned the selection of holidays. I really wonder how the plaintiffs found it closed on Easter Monday, but on Easter Sunday, the Resurrection of the Lord or the Christmas Day of Easter, will be closed, which is the main Easter holiday. Well, I guess the logic says it's open. It will be open on Sunday, but I understand it's a Christian holiday and left-wing colleagues don't really see it. The sale of svatý Václav will be prohibited, 5. 7. Cyril and Metoděj will be allowed. Given how the proposal is built, and given the agreement in TOP 09, I propose rejecting this bill at first reading. I take it as a completely odd argument, which is here about forcing some business workers to work on holidays. We all know, at least those who have run some companies that, on the contrary, the biggest interest in the holiday shift is often that people are applying for it because they receive 100% extras, and rather, the manager has a different problem that he has more than less people registered for the shift. I'm a little surprised that this opportunity for workers to make money supports, for example, the trade union leader, Středula, with his $100,000 salary. I don't like a state that tells us what we're supposed to do this weekend, what we're supposed to do on the holiday, whether we should go shopping or whether we should go for a walk in the park. I think it should probably be up to each of us how we decide and how we want to spend the holiday in question. I don't like a state that orders private subjects who order businessmen when they're supposed to be open and when they have to close because the state thinks it's best for businessmen. I don't go shopping on Sundays and public holidays, or mostly, I prefer other activities. However, I will not take the right of those who want to spend Sundays in hypercrates because they imagine ideally spent holiday time. Once again, I propose rejecting this law at first reading after agreement at TOP 09. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u11	I thank Mr Kučer. Now, before I give the floor with the factual remark of Mrs Putnová, allow me to apologise to the new Member, Mr Pavla Golasowská, today from 19.20 until the end of today's meeting for personal reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u12	Let's vote with our feet. Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Clearly, if we decide to support or not support this law, we are in a situation where we have to decide what kind of regulation we want to give priority to in our lives. That's why I recommend - let's vote with our feet. If we do not go shopping, if not in the first year, they will undoubtedly find reasons in the second year that will sublimely shut down the shops that they like to run today. We will find reasons for opening or closing the door on one side and on the other side. But regulation is crucial. I do not wish for further regulation in my life, so I will vote in favour of rejecting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u13	Thank you, Mrs Putnová, for her point of view. Now with another duly signed up is Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u14	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you and comment on Senate Bill No. 275 about selling time in retail and wholesale. I'll remind you of a few things in history. Already in 2005 The trade union presented this bill, but unfortunately unsuccessfully. It wasn't because they weren't familiar with the political environment, but they thought it was the right thing to do. They were badly damaged by the media campaign, especially the Radio Impulse campaign, which throughout the day broadcast a survey on the topic "What do listeners say about closing down operation units on Sunday?". The law did not mention the closure of operating units on Sunday. Yet, at this time, there has been a great setback against the law, which has bordered on hysteria, and I think it begins now too. As I am informed, when re-submitting the law, the trade unionists and the petitioners came to compromise and supported the seven most important days for the Czech Republic, during which the operation units should remain closed. I disagree, and I think it should cover all the holidays. It's a big day for our country, isn't it? Am I wrong? After all, we should teach our children that the holiday, as I said before, is an important day that we should stop and remember and honor the state holiday. For all of us, Christmas holidays are the most important. I believe that on December 25 and 26, families are supposed to be together, not circle around shopping baskets in shopping centers. Although the law focuses on large hypermarkets, I think the regulation should also cover trades other than the essential ones, that is, listed in the law, hospitals, pumps, and airports, this should be preserved. In Western Europe, the closure of sales units on state and other holidays is absolutely commonplace, and even the countries of the former Eastern bloc, such as Poland, Hungary and Slovakia, have closed operation units. If it were up to me, I'd go even further. I would extend the law to closing business even on days of working peace, i.e. on Sunday. If we assume that Sunday is not a word to do, then it is to rest, and this also applies to business workers. Perhaps someone will challenge my position for defending the freedom of trade, that there will be a decline in sales. I don't think so. Common sense - the customer still has only one wallet and only one amount of money that can be spent in the store. We can't spend more if the store is open longer, and moreover, if I know it's only open on Saturday, I'll buy everything I need for Sunday! Pointing out that employees do not receive extras for holidays and days of rest, and therefore they like to go to work on Sundays, is the height of insolence and disrespect for these employees! I believe that employees should have the wage so that they do not have to hear the surcharges. And let me give you an example: if I, as a businesswoman, shorten by one day the opening hours, and yet I still have the same revenue, I can increase the salary for the employees. I remind you that wages are so low in the store that they often are not enough to cover the basic needs of life, and on the other hand, we read about the outrageous profits of individual chain trades. At this point, I have to stand up for the employees at the store. They are primarily women, mothers, wives, and have families. So let us return to our society respectful of the festivals, days of peace, and allow these people to live a life together with their families. Therefore, I would ask you to support this law and release it to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u15	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. I have three factual points before another duly registered Member, Mr František Laudát. First of all, Mr Jiří Koskuba, Mr Ivan Adamec, followed by Mr Martin Lank. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, the rest of the government, I do not want to keep you too long, because Members are also people, and as you can see, neither do we enjoy Advent days and sit here after 19 o'clock, because we have to discuss this law. I apologize to all of you, although I am a Social Democrat, I fully join in brief with the view that we should reject this law at first reading, because I want to be fair. Forgot about a number of other and other professions that provide us with those quiet days. In time, we would have gotten so far with our regulations that we wouldn't be able to shine in the days listed by a fellow senator, because even those people in the power plants have to be. Even on Christmas Eve, I always look sadly at the bus that passes through our street, where there is a driver and one person tops. We forgot about people in restaurants, etc., etc. Personally, I think it works just as much in stores as it does in hospitals. There are people who chose this profession. There are people in our hospital who serve these days. They serve so because it is their calling, and yes, they make extra money for it. I think if they didn't want to do this, they don't have to do it, we already have laws that no one can force them to do it, so don't be mad at me. And if he doesn't make it, it's this Parliament's fault. On the other hand, as some previous speakers have also said, I am glad that someone will not bother them by simply not going to the shops. Then, of course, they'll shut them down. I'd like to ask you: let's act fast so we can get home. There was one proposal, let's vote in favour or against, and it will be settled. I'm not limiting your discussion, but I'd like to go home, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u17	I thank Mr Koskuba. However, before that happens, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Martin Lank, is still registered with the factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Koskuba has taken part of my contribution directly from my mouth, as the people say otherwise. However, I want to say another thing. There was talk about it not being a political issue, that it was just regulation. Well, I can never agree with that, because regulation, after all, is a highly political issue, and we only regulate part of the market segment here. And regulation, please, I understand that, but as a right-wing politician, no one can ask me to support regulation in any form whatsoever. Maybe sometimes that's what happened here, but I don't see it that way. The fact that there are majors that have to work on weekends, on holidays, that's for sure. But I was gonna say another thing. She told Mrs. Hnyková here, it starts with this holiday, and it's going to be next holiday soon, then it's going to be Sunday, then it's going to be Saturday. Then we say that at five o'clock, all the junk should be closed, and this is how we're gonna keep going. It's just a classic salami method. And as far as the union position is concerned, I think the union's job, and now the union's gonna forgive me, is to make sure there's good employment here, so people get a good salary for their jobs. And I think there's a way through here. If these people are being paid badly, it's a union job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u19	I thank Mr Adamc. With another point of fact, Mr Lank, Mrs Semelová, followed by Mrs Sementel, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. I am not a fan of excessive restrictions, regulations and restrictions, although I understand some of the reasons leading the petitioner to the bill. But I was intrigued by one thing, and I'm quite interested in how it's supposed to be solved, because if I read there that the limit doesn't apply to retail stores up to 200 meters, I'm asking what happens to shopping centers, where there are actually dozens to hundreds of separate, separately operated leased sales units of a few square meters. So that's not gonna apply to them? Does that mean, basically, only the big supermarket is gonna be closed down at the mall? And does that mean that people on public holidays will still go there to buy shoes, clothes, toys, drugstores at holiday discounts, and the only difference is that they won't be able to buy a roll at the supermarket? At least that's how I understand it. You may lead me out of a mistake, but if that's how it is, I'm not quite sure it's doing what the petitioners really want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u21	Thank you, Mr Lank. Now, with Mrs Semelová's point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u22	Thank you. I wanted to respond to some previous speakers. I wouldn't talk about respect for people who work in the store and are in the hands of entrepreneurs in different chains. And it's this free choice of theirs, whether they're going to go or not to work through time, that's a little illusionary. If you think they're gonna stomp, and I'm not gonna do it on the holiday, that's not true, because they're hung over by a whip of unemployment and they don't have to go to work the next day. When it comes to unions, let's remember that in many places they don't even allow those unions to start! The moment someone tries to do that, he's off his job immediately. And fear reigns in business. That's another thing. That means, I think we should discuss this, eventually even the unions have been pushing it for a long time, that we should release this law into second reading. I am aware of some of the risks with regard to wages, because these people are working for very low wages in the store, and this too needs to be treated, but not to be rejected immediately at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u23	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. This has, for the time being, exhausted the factual remarks and now duly applied for by Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief. My colleague has already made a motion to dismiss, so I don't have to give it. Two. My people are supposed to work where they want and where they can. For the next one. If we approve this bill in this way, we'll call on a whole series of other evasive maneuvers, which is 200 meters, which isn't. Like gardening, I don't know if it's closed or closed. Apparently, a lot of them can do that. It brings about total inequality, because who, for example, has a small establishment in some business houses and their own, will not be able to do so, whereas a neighbor across the street will only be able to do so because he has an area somewhere else. It's one with another. Please, come back in time. I am aware that I want to take a break from 20 o'clock, but I consider this to be a very, very unfortunate proposal. And compare us to countries that live a different rhythm of life? Why do we keep regulating people, why do we keep regulating their jobs and the like? The situation is far from dramatic, and besides - do we really want to take money from those who like to earn it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u25	I thank Mr Laudát. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Zavadil, after which Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u26	Good day, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I will vote in favour of letting this law go to second reading, and I will say why. There's been a few mistakes. Through you to my colleague Kučer. The first mistake is that it concerns businessmen. They shouldn't actually be touched unless we find a problem in what has now been said here by big companies that have small businesses, where the businessmen are, but that can be solved in second reading and in committees. So it's not exactly something that has to be an obstacle. A colleague of Koskuba, through you, his mistake is that while power plants have to be done, in some operations, in medical professions they have to be done because they are dangerous to health, so they don't have to be done here. We were used to the fact that Sundays were closed, and I even think that the consumer society in which we are now would need and deserve to have Sundays closed, not just for the holidays, but for Sundays as it is in other developed countries. If we want to get somewhere over there in Tanzania, then please, then let's talk about this stuff and say what we want, about liberalization, and I don't know what it's all about. But the fact that the family got somewhere else, that if you look at the IKEA's kids' playgrounds, where the kids and the parents fly around the IKEA alone, and the kids leave it alone, is that what you like? Not to me! So we need to think about the depth of this problem. It's not just about whether it's left or right, whether we close or not. I am convinced that this is a deep problem, and that if it were really my way, and I was used to it, and a number of you, as I look at you, too, we had closed Sundays and holidays, and it didn't bother anyone at all. We rode our bike, we rode our children into the countryside, and it was so much better than flying around shopping houses today! So please, that's just my contribution to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u27	Thank you, Mr Zavadil. A factual point - Mrs Černochová, Mr Kučera, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u28	I'd like to ask all my colleagues not to try to regulate people's behavior in any way. If someone prefers to play in the playground and run around in the woods and go shopping, it's hard for our honourable legislature to change that behavior in some way. Can we stop people from going to restaurants? Let's close the restaurants, because in the same way, we can approach the fact that instead of having someone and kids play fairy tales at night and read them books, people go to restaurants, drink wine and have fun? By what has been said here, I think the exact trend will be the opposite. On the contrary, unemployment will increase. Those people, as has already been said, will be very happy to serve longer shifts at an extra cost. And just take what's going on in the border. After all, it is our competitive advantage, that Austria is closed. Even though, unfortunately, prices in the Czech Republic are higher than in Germany or Austria, where they are closed, foreign visitors prefer to go shopping in our country on weekends, albeit for more money, but it creates some purchasing power and is positive in our economy. I really wouldn't want to live to see what we witnessed in the previous regime that we all ate two days old bread, sour milk. It's just that today we all move forward in the work process by being late home. I don't know if Senator Bublan goes shopping. I wonder if he goes shopping and when he goes shopping, what his habits are. I just go shopping on the weekend because I don't have time! And I believe that this is how most of the Czech nation behaves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u29	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. With another point of fact, Mr Kučera, Mr Stanjura after him, and then we shall see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u30	I apologize for the performance, but my colleague Zavadil by reaching out to me, he quite picked me up from my chair. I like the fight that the current or the former union leaders are doing here. I think they might be fighting somewhere else. I suggest they take this fight to, for example, our car companies. They're running 24/7, four-shift operations. Try to negotiate it in car companies in collective agreements! Why do you want to ban it in stores by law? These shoulders are big, but in collective agreements - I don't think that if you got in there like this, I don't want to name a car company, so I don't touch it, with the fact that you want it to be done by 12 on Sunday and there's no holiday at all, so I think they'd chase you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u31	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura, after whom Mr Opálka, Mr Zavadil. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u32	First of all, about the idyllic description of how we used to go to that place on Sundays, not the store. I mean, there was nothing on the Communist side of the store, so what would we do if they opened it, right? As a young man, I had to go to the village line on Friday to make it four hours to buy two bananas. Those were idyllic times, that was nature's time, the playground! That's right. If we don't have anything, we won't buy anything. I'm not calling for it. I really don't miss it. It's a typical attempt by the left to do good. We'll make you happy, even if you don't want to! We will simply order you to do so because we are convinced of our truth. Typical social engineering! Of course, these specific questions put the petitioners in a tight spot because they can't tell why they chose this segment. There's a tendency in these big shopping centers today to have small business units. You're somewhere 20 years ago, not 20, 15 years ago, when they were just hypermarkets and they weren't small business units. But why do you want to ban these people? I mean, these people vote every Sunday whether it's good for them or not, and they vote with their feet and vote with cars and public transportation to those centers they go shopping. I'm not excited about it, but I don't care about trying to force my opinion on the law. So convince your unionists not to go shopping! Well, there aren't that many, so it doesn't really show up in those hypermarkets. But I just think that's what we're supposed to reject, not let it go on. It can't be fixed, it can only be rejected. There's really no way to fix it. And, of course, they can't tell why it can't be said in other sectors, and they chose here because they think it's a good thing. So don't you buy, if it bothers you, it's perfectly fine, set an example, spread the awareness in your political party, and with your constituents, you have quite a lot of voters, and if people don't walk, then the traders will just shut it down themselves, because it won't make sense. But there's no doubt there's an economic sense to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u33	I thank Mr Stanjur. Mr Opálka, with a factual remark, Mr Zavadil after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to respond to some of the previous speeches in the factual notes. I grew up at the time, too. I was born in 1952. At that time, each child received an eighth of a litre of milk for the day, because there was still an allocation system for tickets, and I grew up. If we're pointing out there was nothing in those stores. Of course, there was more purchasing power than goods in stores, which - [[An explosion of laughter in the hall.]] There was more purchasing power than goods in stores, that's true. It's interesting that there was nothing, but every time he wanted something, he got it, but let's leave it to other people. I'm gonna respond to the sour milk and the old bread. You know, it's not gonna get sour today, it's not gonna get sour at all. So we drink healthy milk that is no longer able to sour, or become bitter or rotten. And the bread isn't for food on the next three days either. We should measure these things a little bit really the way they are. And as for the shops and the car companies. The problem is, there's usually no union in stores. I deal with the inspection of the work problem of one Czech business chain, where employees actually work as if in multi-shift operation, therefore they are not entitled to extras on holidays, and if the employees of the business chain happen to come out on the holiday day that they do not have to work, they will tear it off his vacation. That's how far we've come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u35	I thank Mr Opálek. Now Mr Zavadil with a point of fact, after which Mr Stanjura with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u36	I'd just recommend to everyone that they go to the car factory. I've been there every month, and I know how to do it. It's a four-shift operation after six hours. It's all about something different than here in those wholesale shops where it's often done not only eight hours, but more than ten hours and twelve hours. So that's the first point. [[A note from the diaper.]] Look, I'd recommend if we didn't yell at each other. If you want to yell at me, come out. [[An explosion of laughter in the hall.]] Well, it's better there. I'd like to move on. Let us not compare the business chains and the business industry to automakers, please. So I think that the business industry is in such a situation today that really the reduction - or even if we don't like the number of holidays, and I don't, either, because, as I said, I would have cut all those holidays, so why only seven holidays were chosen, I don't know. So let's really think about this, and let's let it go to second reading, and let's talk specifically after, what committees it will go to, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u37	Mr Stanjura preferred Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr Kalousek, Mr Stanjura after him, Mr Okamura after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe, but I'm not imposing it on anyone, it's part of my lifestyle, that on such an important holiday you should dress nicely in the morning, go to church, then have lunch and then either visit or go for a walk, spend it in any kind of nice way other than in the consumer madness of the supermarket. That's a lifestyle one of us has, some of us don't. I can't imagine imposing my lifestyle on anyone. Even the Hospodin, when he wrought it to Mojžíš as a reminder, that thou mightest hallow the day of the feast, so he said not, And make thy stand, and the state shall forbid it by this law. He was simply appealing to each and every one of us to somehow make the holiday day stand. Just taking people's freedom in the way they want to act at such a moment is absurd! That's state terrorism! That's total nonsense! It contradicts something we've been living in for thousands of years, and now we have so nicely delimited that you don't have to sanctify the holiday within 200 meters and over 200 meters but you have to! By the way, that's not in the 10th floor. Remember to dedicate the holiday day above 200 meters, I really didn't read it there. [[entertainment in the hall]] I understand that this exists in some Western countries, but then there are a lot of things that I wish there were, and you refuse. And this is something that contradicts my idea of human freedom, human choice, choice of life. I'm fundamentally against it. I would like to say to the members of YES 2011 on this occasion that they are also facing a conflict of interest here. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] No, I volunteered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u39	I'm so sorry, though... Mr Stanjura prefers you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u40	I volunteered with priority rights, so I can't be limited in time. So even members of YES 2011 here are in conflict of interest, because the only people who can really benefit from something like this are bakers. The bakers have to deliver fresh pastries to the supermarkets every morning when they're open. The moment we ban supermarkets from being open, these people don't eat less bread. They're gonna have to buy twice as much the day before, and the baker saves the night shift with the extras. Which, as we all know, is particularly Mr. Babiš in this country. So I would quite like you to sign up for this conflict of interest when you vote on it. And so that, as a TOP 90 MP, we can really analyze this very carefully, so please take two hours off for the club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-013-050.u41	I thank Mr Kalousek. Since the date is no later than 21 o'clock, and since the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club has asked for a break, I am interrupting this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and ending today's meeting. The meeting will continue tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock. Have a good evening.
