ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and on the Amendment of Some Other Acts, as amended /German Press 172/ - Second Reading I'm gonna need you to keep the noise level down. Thank you. Under the authority of the Government, the proposed bill will be introduced by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and amending some other laws, as amended. I would like to thank you for the approach that has been taken so far in the accelerated discussion of the Government's bill amending the Waste Act, particularly in the field of electricity and waste management. Let me briefly summarize the content of the bill. In particular, the Government's draft law aims to ensure the transposition of Directive 2012/19/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on waste electrical and electronic equipment. The main changes to the existing legislation consist in extending the scope of the substance of the legislation on the handling of electrical equipment, the new modifications to certain definitions, the introduction of a new institute of authorised producer representative, the simplification of the administrative form of the list of manufacturers of electrical equipment and the electronicisation of entries in this list, the extension of the obligation of the last sellers to remove the electrical equipment used, the increase of the minimum level of use of electrical waste from 15 August 2015, the establishment of a central register of retake points and other parameters. I would just like to point out in this context that, as of 31 March of this year, infringement proceedings have been conducted against the Czech Republic in the case of early non-compliance with the OEME Directive, this is precisely about the electronic equipment, by the European Commission, since the deadline for transposition of this Directive expired on 14 February 2014. The draft law was discussed on 21 May 2014 in the Committee on the Environment and, in the course of this discussion, the Committee recommended to the Chamber of Deputies the approval of the Government's bill with several amendments. This is mainly about the determination of specific requirements for the density of return points for electrical equipment originating from households. It is also proposed to supplement the provisions on the reimbursement of contributions by collective systems if the applicant demonstrates that the electrical equipment was exported or supplied to another Member State after being placed on the market in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, the Government's bill on electrical equipment and electrical waste was proposed by Mr Oklešťek's amendment to add additional areas. It is the management of municipal waste, i.e. the introduction of compulsory sorting of metals and so-called. Biodegradable municipal waste - in short BRKO, I will continue to use it to shorten the negotiation - ban landfilling of designated waste, deadline ban on landfilling, change of conditions for the recovery of waste as technical security of landfills and changes in fees for waste storage. I would just like to say that the obligation to introduce separate collection of paper, plastics, glass and metals since 2015 is laid down in Article 11 of Directive 2008/98/EC on waste, and although such waste is currently being collected separately in the vast majority of municipalities in the Czech Republic, it is necessary to make this obligation explicitly compulsory in the law. The introduction of a separate collection of the biological component of municipal waste is then necessary in order to meet the target for the diversion of such waste from landfill, as laid down in Directive 1995/31/EC on landfills of waste. By 2020, the Czech Republic must reduce the amount of biodegradable municipal waste deposited on landfills to 35 percent compared to their production in 1995. Without the introduction of a mandatory separate collection of biodegradable components of municipal waste, this objective cannot be achieved. [[15.40 hours]] As far as the ban on landfilling of designated waste is concerned, there is still a high level of landfilling of municipal waste and similar waste in the Czech Republic, significantly higher than in Western countries and there is no decline in landfilling below 55 to 57 % in the long term. It is therefore proposed to create a system that motivates the waste producer to use more environmentally friendly waste management methods, with only a ban on landfilling recyclable and usable waste in the future, based on experience so far. According to the experience of neighbouring countries, such as Germany, which clearly declared a ban on landfilling - in the case of Germany already in 2009 - this led to the construction of functional and economically acceptable waste management methods, particularly municipal ones, while respecting the waste hierarchy as defined by the Waste Directive. I am convinced that Mr Okleštěk will then say something more about the amendment in the debate, so I do not want to delay it now and I assume that there will be a broad debate on these proposals. Let me conclude by saying that I have over the past few days and weeks heard of many and many entities whose wages I supposedly work or work in. I would like to say that the Ministry of the Environment only works in environmental pay and its protection. This means, if we are talking about limiting landfilling, if we are talking about introducing a functional tool, an economic tool, which is also a charge, if we are talking about a significantly increased approach to landfilling biodegradable waste, then we are simply talking about what has something to do with common sense. I don't think any of us would do the trash in the garden. In the case of landfills, we do it all the time, and we don't even think about it anymore. When we look and compare the situation with really advanced countries, we have significant reserves in these areas. And I think that, regardless of whether the European Commission wants us to do this and in what year, we should choose a sensible procedure. I think that the proposal that Mr Okleštěk gave in terms of banning the landfill of otherwise usable waste, i.e. biodegradable and recyclable in 2023, gives sufficient space, time for all operators to prepare for such a ban for ten years in advance. I am convinced that even the proposed way of increasing the fees, which is really for one person and the year 21 CZK according to calculations, and not only ours - one beer, and I don't know, I don't go to beer very much, so if the ten-stage or twelve-stage - and in the case of the family it is approximately 80 to 90 crowns per year, i.e. one pack of cigarettes, I do not consider this increase socially unbearable and I think it has its clear motivational component. I will certainly comment on this further in the discussion. So, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development also discussed this proposal in an initiative. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 172/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Josef Nekl, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have been tasked with reporting this government amendment to Act No. 185/2001 Coll., House Press 172, in the context of the Committee on the Environment. The Minister has given very detailed reasons for the discussion of this law, in particular concerning the processing and use of electrical waste, and, of course, has also given detailed reasons for the philosophy of the amendment, in particular Mr Oklešťek. This bill was discussed on 20 May by the subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment for Technical Conservation, where it dealt in detail with both the amendments tabled by Mr Zahradník and Mr Okleštěk. The Committee discussed this draft law at its 32nd session - 32nd resolution at its 8th meeting on 21 May, when it adopted a resolution which is, as the House's press, 172/1 in the materials intended for this item of the programme. In this resolution, it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted, and recommends that I introduce you to this resolution as an honourable Chamber of Deputies, so this is what I am doing. I also refer to the Minister's words, which gave very detailed reasons for the need to adopt these laws and amendments, so that we can bring them into line with EU regulations and directives and, of course, to meet all the requirements of modern life and environmental protection in our country. That's all for now. In a detailed debate, I will then read one more amendment myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u5	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u6	Thank you. So, Madam President, my dear colleagues, as a member of the Committee on the Environment and a member of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I, of course, was also obliged to justify my proposal as a petitioner. When I submitted a proposal to the Committee on the Environment, there I came to the conclusion that my colleagues understood the situation and supported it, and that is why I also presented an initiative to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. As mayor of waste for 20 years, I felt the need to introduce this proposal to fellow mayors who sit on this committee, and I think that this issue concerns public administration and regional development, so I tabled this proposal. The Committee on Public Administration discussed the proposal and proposed a resolution. To defend my proposal here, I hope that it is not so much necessary, but I will tell you about the principle. I think that dumping waste into the country isn't the right walnut that our state needs, so separation is exactly what we're all trying to do here, it's been done in some way, but we don't have a directive to do it. It is only possible to issue a directive if it is discussed and the proposal, or amendment, of the law, is approved. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Public Administration Committee. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 10th meeting, after Ing's statement of reasons. Berenika Peštová, Deputy Minister of the Environment, after the report by Mr Ladislav Oklešťek and after the debate recommends The Chamber of Deputies has 172 to discuss and approve the amendment adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u7	Thank you. I am now opening a general debate to which they are signed: Mrs Havlová, Mr Kučera, Mrs Kovářová, Mr Kudela, Mr Böhnisch, Mr Birke, Mr Zahradník and also Vice-President of the House Petr Gazdík, who, with priority, is opening the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that the Minister is very opposed in his speech. He said right at the beginning that it was a novel about electrowaste, which, unfortunately, is fitted to, I'd say where. Where, as a crucial decision on how waste sorting or non-sorting in the Czech Republic will look like, how landfilling or incineration of waste will look like in the future, and certain charges that are very closely related to this are also fitted. I would like to comment on this bill from two levels. The first plane - I will comment on this as a municipal policy. I do not know if you, my fellow Members and colleagues, especially those on the left, realize what social acceptance of this proposal would mean. We fought here a few years ago, and there were massive obstructions to reduce the support of building savings from 3,000 to 2,000 crowns. [[15.50 hours]] Now, why am I talking about this in connection with this bill proposal? Already today, if anyone wants to reconstruct the property and has a certain amount of building debris, the export of one container of building debris costs about 8 to 12,000 depending on the distance from the landfill, according to tonnage, according to the price of transport. Such a common reconstruction, for God's sake, if I were to be a maximumist, demolition of a family house and the status of a new family house on it would mean the cost of tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands. It's usually about 100 to 150,000 for demolition of the family house and sorting out or storing the rubble in the dump. By adopting this bill, the amount in question would increase up to ten times. That means destroying a family home would mean hundreds of thousands to millions of costs. It would completely stop all reconstructions in municipalities and cities. It would be worth a lot more building a house so-called green meadow and, in particular, it would affect the most socially sensitive groups that do not have the power to build a new house on a green meadow. I do not know how colleagues, especially colleagues from the left, will approach this. This is my experience as mayor and deputy mayor of the village, which collects building waste or building debris free of charge from people, recycles it, sortes it, crushes it and uses it again. And now I will try to look at this law from the second position, from the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. As Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Czech Waste Economy Association addressed me from the point of view that, unfortunately, when discussing the Committee on the Environment - many of you know what it looked like - they were invited to the 1045 hours when this item was to be discussed, and although they had come 20 minutes earlier, this representative of the professional public was no longer allowed to comment on this point and there was no proper discussion with this representative and other representatives of the professional public. When I add this to the matter that it is basically an adhesive, when a simple European directive solves something that should have a more comprehensive discussion - and I do not understand it, because the Ministry should have in its legislative plan a draft waste law at the end of this year, I do not know why it is done by such a label of the honourable colleague Oklešťek, I do not understand why the Minister agrees with it - so when I take these two things together, that it is a semi-glue and that part of the professional public has not been allowed to discuss the Committee on the Environment, I allow myself, pursuant to Section 93 of the Rules of Procedure, to submit a proposal for the return of the Committee on the Environment for a new discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u9	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Olga Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my previous speaker has taken the wind from my sails a little bit, but I will nevertheless say what I had prepared here, and we will basically doubling ourselves in what he has already said. We are dealing with the Waste Act, which was discussed in the Committee on the Environment, where amendments to this Act have been approved. As with most Members, I have also received alarming information on committee law and on the amendment that has been approved in committee. The law can have a very fundamental impact on the functioning of the waste market and it is therefore quite logical and correct that operators in the market directly affected by the law should also be involved in its discussions. The Act was discussed at the 8th meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 21 May and, due to the importance of the law, the Czech Waste Economy Association officially requested to speak to the Committee during the debate. However, this speech was not allowed for quite non-standard reasons. The item was discussed about 25 minutes before the meeting programme was set, without any information received. I do not want to speculate whether it would then be decided otherwise on this committee, but if such a fundamental amendment to the law is adopted, it seems to me that the word "association" representing companies in the field will not even be given. In particular, these complex technical proposals should not be adopted without discussion with the professional public. With all due respect to the Chamber of Deputies, understanding the entire substance of the law we are discussing here is not easy, and the opposition position of the Czech Waste Economy Association and Waste Processors Association should at least be heard. The second thing that I consider to be even more serious is the amendment that was read at the committee's meeting. This one can be labeled completely with a clear conscience. The original bill is merely limited to the transposition of the directive, with other necessary changes in the legislation on the treatment of electrical equipment and electrical waste, which are complex and systemic in nature, being addressed only within the framework of the forthcoming new legislation. According to Article 63 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) Article 1 (5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies may only release, extend or amend certain parts of the original proposal. However, the Committee adopted the amendment does not in any way concern the issue of the management of electrical equipment and electrical waste, but it fundamentally changes the further direction of waste legislation in the Czech Republic. For example, a 100 per cent increase in landfill charges, a ban on landfilling specified types of waste, major changes in charging redistribution, major changes in hazardous waste management and others. The proposed changes clearly have a considerable impact on the whole segment. The amendments are therefore not only unrelated to the core of the law, but also substantially change the rules without being discussed in a proper commentary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I find this law to be completely transparent, especially since we all distance ourselves from accepting stickers. It is also interesting that the President of the Chamber of Deputies himself and the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment received letters from these associations and the Czech Association, where these people complained that they had not been received, were not heard and were not even answered to this day. Therefore, the law should be renegotiated in committee, and therefore, like my previous speaker, I propose, in accordance with Paragraph 93 (2) of the Act, that the law be renegotiated in committee. 2 for the House to return the draft law to the Committee on the Environment for renegotiation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u11	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Kučera's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about the amendment to the Waste Act and, in particular, the ANO amendment which came from the Committee on the Environment. At the last meeting of the House, a small technical amendment to the Waste Act was submitted to us, the so-called electronics, which was to be approved in an accelerated reading due to imminent fines on the part of the European Union. I am now not going to comment on the fact that the amendment was not very well prepared, that it strengthens the monopoly behaviour of the entitled person, which ensures retroactive withdrawal, that there are resolutions of the Office for the Protection of Competition from the autumn of last year, which state serious concerns about the state of the competitive environment, that the Ministry of the Environment clearly introduces unnecessary regulation where it is no longer necessary, and that the Office for the Protection of Competition notes the absence of effective supervision of public authorities where price formation is taking place. Unfortunately, that doesn't solve this electron. These are very serious findings that the amendment does not respond to. [[16.00 hours]] Some problems are eliminated by the amendment of my fellow Zahradník, for which I thank him. These fundamental problems, which are brought about by the electronics today, will, I hope, be resolved in a complete amendment to the Waste Act. What frightens me more, however, is the legislative work of the Ministry of the Environment, when the Ministry presented a serious change to waste management for municipalities and citizens at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment in the process of dealing with electronics. For example, it increases the prices for landfilling, sets a deadline for the ban on landfilling, introduces an obligation to classify biowaste for municipalities and entrepreneurs, e.g. also for restaurants, and others. Again, I would like to point out that these and other very serious amendments are tabled before second reading in the form of a parliamentary amendment. If we look at the Government's legislative plan, we will see that the Minister of the Environment wants to present a substantive intention for a complete amendment to the Waste Act in September of this year. And I ask: Why are such major changes not addressed comprehensively in the autumn amendment to the Waste Act? And let us not make excuses for the European Union again. Why is the Minister of the Environment avoiding comprehensive change? Why does he not have the courage to come before municipalities, citizens and entrepreneurs with an unpopular solution? That he doesn't want to work it off, or, if you want, he doesn't want to work it off? We are going to make this amendment really expensive today, and we are going to ban landfilling in the future. We all agree that landfilling is not the way and the waste management method that we want to support in the long term. But if we ban something today, we also have to answer today how we will deal with waste in the future. This is the answer that the municipal authorities and citizens are waiting for. Are we going to recycle more? How and where and for what? Are we gonna burn the trash instead of burying it in the ground? How and under what conditions? We forbid landfill, but we do not answer these fundamental questions. We all know what is behind this special-purpose amendment: the effort of the Ministry of the Environment to avoid discussion, escape from the problem, not to solve complex issues, but to approve it per partes when the waste law is famous for the cake dog and kittens. Unfortunately, the stomach will hurt our communities and our citizens. We also need to realise that waste management is a billion-dollar business. And we're all a little bit aware that we're dealing with a waste clash, landfilling counter-burning. As I have already said, this special-purpose amendment does not address what will be next in the area of waste management. I'm totally passing the recycling rate. Surely we all remember the conflict at the spring session of the Chamber of Deputies, when the Ministry of the Environment presented low recycling targets and resigned from motivation in higher recycling. I ask here once again: If the Ministry of the Environment does not want to motivate higher recycling, second, it wants to ban landfilling, what does it want third? Of course - burn trash. Is that right? That is not what the Ministry of Environment is telling us, because the complete amendment to the Waste Act lies at the Ministry, and we may not know the answers until autumn. I must say that I really do not see the slightest reason to approve such serious changes in waste management in the special-purpose amendment, if you wish, in the sticker. This must be addressed in the autumn amendment to the Waste Act. I have dealt with whether to make partial changes and improve the parameters of this amendment or not approve it as a whole. In view of the serious facts that I have brought you up to speed here, I agree with my previous speakers, and I propose to return this proposal to the Committee on the Environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u13	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with the de facto remark of Mr Opálka. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, a factual point should not be related to the content and I will also make such a factual point. It is often abused by the concept of stickers. The sticker is a completely different law that has nothing to do with the issue. Let's not say the label of something that actually relates to the law and goes beyond its scope. That's just because it happens a lot. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u15	I thank the honourable Member and now I ask for a microphone from Mrs Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of TOP 09 and the Mayors has been made clear here by fellow Member Gazdík and colleague Kučera. However, let me also comment on this proposal, as amended by the amendment by Mr Oklešťek, who is working hard in the coalition. The reason why the proposal does not have my support in this form is that, without sufficient justification, it increases fees that ultimately affect citizens and many companies. The increase in fees in municipalities for transport leads to an increase in the number of non-payers. Another reason is the extremely non-standard way in which he went through the commentary procedure. The Ministry of the Environment claims that organisations such as the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Regions were also able to comment on the material. But as I learned from the representatives of the Union of Cities and Cities, it was merely a reminder. The amendment was received by the Union on Thursday 29 May and was due to be submitted by Monday 2 June until 10 a.m. Best case scenario, it was two whole working days. Such haste in me, of course, raises suspicion, especially in a situation where, according to the opinion of the Czech Waste Economy Association, sanctions on the part of the EU are at risk only if a part of the provisions contained in Mr Oklešťek's amendment are not adopted. In the case of the remaining ones, the big question is to whom their accelerated approval should benefit. I'm afraid the public won't be the one to profit from this non-standard procedure. I therefore support my fellow Members' proposal for a renegotiation in the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u17	Thank you, Madam Member, and now, please, to Mr Kudela's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u18	Hello, Madam President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. The original government amendment to the Waste Act deals with the necessary regulation of the Act in the field of electrowaste. It's okay, thanks for her. This amendment complements Mr Zahradník's proposal. However, the MEPs' amendments are very fundamentally devoted to the responsibilities of the municipality and natural persons in the management of municipal waste. The Ministry of the Environment and the Minister point out that the adoption of the amendment makes it conditional on the acceptance of subsidies from the European Union. It's okay. Mr Oklešťek's amendment concerns the specification for the management of hazardous waste at his own landfill, but I think it is not enough because this is a place where operators can charge hazardous waste from waste agents but do not pay to the State. However, Mr Václav Zemek's amendment does not mention the ban on the use of hazardous waste on the technical security of landfills at all. The amendment refers to charging at landfills of stored materials, including noble materials, e.g. for the construction of roads or for the extraction of methane. The amendments also focus mainly on increasing the charges for waste storage, all waste of others, municipal waste and hazardous waste. [[16.10 hours]] I would also like to point out here that the amendment by Mr Václav Oklešťek and Mr Zemk differs significantly in the specification of the scope of the use of landfill waste for technical security of landfill. 20 per cent is fine, I consulted the landfill operators, but 35 per cent is already circumventing the law, bypassing the charges to be collected and also to pay to the state, regions and municipalities. I want to say that these amendments did not go through a proper debate with the professional public or with the municipalities, and that the discussion in the committee of this amendment will only benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u19	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Böhnisch's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that the current process of discussing the current amendment to the Waste Act has caused me considerable embarrassment. I do not want to address the original transposition proposal for electro-waste, I suppose that the colleagues will comment on this in general and in a detailed debate. My comments tend to lead to an unexpected attempt to significantly transform the current waste management practice in the Czech Republic. Unlike many critics, I would not dare to refer to Mr Oklešťek's amendment approved by the Committee on the Environment as an sticker. I would even like to warn myself about overuse of this term and to apply to the words of my colleague Opálka. I believe that, in the limits of one law, better said, one defined issue, it is simply not an adhesive. Nevertheless, I would like to mention a few critical points. The first one may not even be so critical. I personally think, with some reservations, that Mr Oklešťek's amendment is going in the right direction as regards waste management in the future. I see the problem in some formulas and, above all, in the way in which these amendments are tabled and enforced. We hear criticism of so-called traditional parties and calls for a new style, greater transparency and accountability every day from the representatives and representatives of the ANO movement. However, the way in which an incriminating large-scale amendment, which, moreover, may have been difficult to write by one Member, is a reminder of the methods of the darkest period of operation of the environmental resort in the pre-past government. I have considered, ladies and gentlemen, how to exploit the positive potential of this not-so-comfortably tabled amendment and to keep the whole material in the legislative process. I don't see the point in returning the amendment back to committee. I am not illusioned that this would bring the opinions of individual interest groups closer together, it simply cannot happen on principle. We would just postpone the decisions that we politicians will eventually have to make. For the fact that social democracy - the traditional partique, I am not ashamed of it - is more evolutionary than the revolutionary party. I have tried to make a rather evolutionary proposal from Mr Oklešťek's revolutionary proposal approved by both the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Public Administration. I have asked Mr Ivo Kropáček, the waste expert of the Rainbow movement, to make the most of all comments on the original proposal, which have come from many affected natural and legal persons and public corporations and their interest associations, and to work out the most acceptable compromise possible - he has drawn up a compromise, I apologize. I was also led to minimize the impact of possible changes on the budgets of Czech households. This proposal is now registered in the system under the number of House document 962 and I will sign up during the detailed debate on this amendment. We will undoubtedly express our position on him and on other proposals by voting at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u21	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Birke's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear government, colleagues, it is always hard to speak sixth or seventh in the order, because those of you who are ahead of you will draw out the topics that you will prepare, write, or even compare in your head, the worse the performance is supposed to look. However, let me tell you my view of the mayor of the city, whose daily bread - waste management in contact with the citizens that we as self-government want money for, they want service for it, so let me introduce you to this view, and at the same time make an easy comment on the way in which this novel on waste is actually found itself and how it is discussed. We are in the second reading of the Government's Waste Bill, House press number 172. I'm not going to be reading any other amendments here, like some of my colleagues, and I'm not even going to make any recommendations for a return to committee. However, I want to warn you about the amendment as mayor of the city, Mr Oklešťek. I ask, through Madam President, that my colleague do not take this personally. It's nothing personal, it's just an expression of opinion. Not like that, Mr. Colleague. It is an amendment that makes an innocent Euronovela about electro-scrap, which is undoubtedly necessary to discuss and without a doubt must be approved, revolutionize the disposal of municipal waste. There is nothing more than a revolution to ban the landfill of untreated municipal waste. I would therefore like to ask, first of all, my colleagues from the ANO movement, if they find it okay. Do you feel okay that there will be a major change in the waste disposal system due to the tricky sticker that your colleague has proposed and presented, so is this the right way to improve the government in our country? I'll get to that detail right away, why I think it's totally messed up. Before the elections, you criticized the old political parties, including social democracy, for making an opaque policy in Parliament. For bending the Rules of Procedure and sticking various stickers to bills. You promised to do it differently, transparently. Just after the election, you even filed a motion to amend the House's Rules of Procedure so that this would not happen. But it's eight months since the election, and what are we supposed to decide? About the tricky label of the YES movement to the amendment to the Waste Act. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, all of this is happening with the conscious consent of the Ministry of the Environment instead, and this is very important, because in the draft point, the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Waste Act, with the consent of the Minister of the Environment, instead of a standard inter-ministerial commentary procedure, a standard legislative process, and at the same time the government is going around. With the knowledge of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, who agrees that a major change in waste management will be glued to something completely different. I don't want to moralize anyone here, believe me. Let everyone take it from here. But one thing is clear, that's not how transparent politics is done. Neither the state nor the company can operate like this. And I want to tell you, if I run City Hall like this, I'm in 48 hours - these people are gonna drive me out. Let me give you a few examples from practice. Waste management is just a big business. Sure thing. On the one hand, there's a revenue component where you charge people an annual waste collection fee, and they want a service for it, they want trash cans taken away. And you have a couple of choices -- you take it out on a person, a stamp system, every city has a different way of doing it. It must also be said that each city has different tariffs, because each city has of course a completely different system - someone has a landfill, someone has an incinerator, someone has nothing at all and they have to dump etc., etc. This means that it cannot be absolutely flattered throughout the Czech Republic, meaning, say, 6,000 municipalities, or more than 6,000 municipalities. What do I want to say? Maybe I'd welcome - and I know it's not part of it - or I'd like to welcome an sticker of the type: help the mayors to recover the underpayments on the waste. That's something that would be amazing. I'd applaud that, and I'd be happy, because in a town of twenty thousand, whether you like it or not, and you can do whatever key instructions you need to give - that means whoever pays within two months, you'll give a reduced rate, whoever pays within three months gives a reduced rate, you'll still get a thousand, a thousand, five hundred nonpayers out of it. [[16.20 hours]] I'm not talking about the people you have staying at City Hall. If you go around them, send a subpoena to yourself. And these people are producing garbage for you. [[Laughter on the right.]] They just produce your trash... These people live somewhere, eat something, drink something... They produce waste. I don't know what was so funny about that, but it's just that. When you increase people's waste, virtually. the cost of trash, you know what happens? Your rates will increase immediately and you will start developing black landfills. That's reality. This is something that the Minister of the Environment said just a moment ago - that this amendment, this sticker, is something that should be removed. Wow, he's not gonna remove that. Black landfills are about to start. It's just a phenomenon that's happening. And it costs the town hall money again. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, in addition to the recommendations that I have taken from my low position to put forward, I would like to say to you that it should be fair: If you admit to citizens, the authors of this amendment will make this change a big draft in their wallets. They're going to double their garbage charges. It's just that this change isn't gonna get any better in our country. Well, maybe somebody's better off. I can imagine who. But it won't be the citizens that the mayors - and I firmly believe that some of us will continue - will want the money. I understand you don't have any mayors yet, so you don't understand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u23	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Zahradník's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u24	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, when I, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, prepared an opinion for the Civic Democratic Party on the amendment to the Waste Act, which, as prepared by the Government or the Ministry, was about electrowaste, something that needs to be done, we are threatened with sanctions from the European Union, the electronics seemed politically neutral to me. And since I have found some gaps there, in agreement with the municipal representatives, both in the establishment of an electrical waste collection network, as well as in the recovery or recovery process of those contributions to the treatment of electrical waste, I have prepared those two amendments already by the rapporteur. But then I saw that the novel appeared far more fundamental. And here I also found it surprising why, with such a fundamental proposal, the Ministry does not come up with such an enormous potential for experts, at least I hope so. Why is this amendment presented by a fellow Member, Mr Oklešťek? Why are we discussing this right now, why are we so much concerned with this problem when the Ministry itself was to come up with the alienated proposal? It didn't happen. And now the Minister may see with some disillusionment that the proposal prepared by the Minister at the Ministry, who was taken over by Mr Okleštěk, is suddenly changed by several amendments, where, frankly, it is not even clear what is changed and what the resulting product will actually look like, which our House will eventually produce. And now the question is, what are we gonna do about it, how are we gonna do about it? The contributions I have heard here give me a hunch that the proposal that is presented here does not have much support in the coalition itself. I would like to see this as a representative of the opposition party, but I will admit that I am not pleased at all, that I think that, as colleagues from the ANO movement entered this House, what they said in the election campaign, how they wanted to simplify the functioning of the House, to make our processes, or the processes of the House more transparent, then neither I nor they were yet here, and now by this proposal, in fact, such as the first one, it can be said that their creativity is causing enormous confusion. As in this regard, I find only one way out of this, the two proposals, the two amendments, the amendment on electrowaste and the amendment on the amount of the landfill law, and the vote on each of them separately. So let the House and the coalition itself decide what the fate of this amendment will be of Mr Oklešťek. Let him decide in the vote. So here, I think, is the only way I can imagine. I don't know whether my idea is right or not, but I am not recommending my club to vote in favour of the proposed amendments concerning landfilling and other, other things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u25	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Oklešťek's microphone. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u26	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Madam President, I am pleased that my name is being bowed down from all sides here. You can see that I may have caught your eye and that we are finally going to have to deal with this issue a little bit. My colleague, Gazdík, has basically put an approximation here to the recycling of the family home. I don't know where he was on those numbers, I'm sure they'll be true. However, if someone is going to the reconstruction of the family house so fundamentally that they intend to demolish the whole house, they must also expect to have some costs. Those were 20 years ago. And I think they haven't changed significantly in relation to wage increases and the proportion of waste disposals. But what I'm asking is, Jesus Christ, this garbage belongs in the dump? My colleague Gazdík sees it that way. But then he mentioned the problem more carefully that the old houses and the materials could be recycled in some way. I mean, the rubble isn't for landfills, but it's supposed to be used technologically and use it to strengthen different paths, etc. But everyone's gonna take it from here. Then there was an opinion - an increase in fees. Please, you're saying we'll double the price for citizens. The interpretation is similar to that of journalists. There is a difference between the landfill deposit and its fee and the citizens' fee. The citizen is integrated into the municipal waste collection system and here it is projected with 21 crowns. As colleague Birke mentioned here, we don't have a mayor. We don't have many mayors, but I've been making them for 20 years. I see he wouldn't listen to me when I spoke in my opening words because I said so. And in 20 years, I can see what's going on in these villages. I see the way separations develop, the way prices develop in waste storage, etc. It's always about what prices you negotiate with the entity that disposes of your waste. Of course, I will not touch those colleagues who negotiate prices significantly higher and then the poor citizen will pay. That's a question for the town halls to think about themselves. [[16.30 hours]] As far as the public is concerned, it's also a beautiful remark. I felt that this law should be discussed, for example, by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. That is why, without the House's commandments, I took the initiative to present him there myself. That's where we have these mayors. And at this meeting, the professional public was more than members of the Public Administration Committee. Everyone was expressing their arguments, including all the associations we're talking about, or their representatives. They had room for it, and I think they've also put it into good use. I've come to believe there's a feeling something's sticking up somewhere. It's been said by a lot of people around here. I can see the label when we discuss defenses in health care. But in the environment and waste, that would be a total mess. Then I would like to say that I know all the proposals that I have actually incorporated into the amendment from what I have been doing in the municipal waste period, and I have gone to the Ministry for advice on some steps. I found out that for five years there has been a group working at the Ministry of the Environment that deals with this issue and that it includes all the affected, the very professional public, from landfillers, burners, all the associations and so on. They've been negotiating for five years, but since everyone has different interests, they can't come forward with anything. Of course, I took their proposals, and I included them in this changeling of mine. I am not ashamed that I have included them there because I think that they are going across the board and that we are able to take a step forward through this amendment, or this amendment. So that's my point of view. He's been working for five years, I remind you. Then a colleague named Kučera also mentioned that we would not be dumping. We will not only dump what is recyclable or otherwise usable. What can't be used and recycled, of course, we'll keep dumping. So such a scream of a ban on landfilling in general is a little off-limits in my opinion. Then the connection to the black dumps, as my colleague Birke mentioned here. I cannot imagine that a citizen of CZK 21 increase that we have calculated, and it is not necessary that the municipality, if it does not want to have increased costs according to this court, should have to project them into the fee for the collection of municipal waste, I remind you, but I believe that 21 CZK will not put anybody or any socially weak family at all. And if there is such a socially weak family in your territory, in your community, I think the community should help such families. You can all find your own way. So I am quite surprised that everyone is wondering that this proposal was made, but so far, no one has done anything to improve our waste management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u27	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Kučera's factual remark. Then I will ask the Minister of the Environment to prepare himself with priority rights and then Mrs Nytrová. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u28	Thank you for the floor. My name has fallen in the speech of my previous speaker, so of course I feel obliged to express myself in some way. I said the ban on landfilling would lead to one single - increase and permit the burning of waste. You are even using the same argument and the same bonmots as the former party colleague of Minister Brabec of the ODS, Mr Topolánek, today the chairman of the heating association, who talks about burying trash under the ground as some animals, I believe the minister has named it today, mentioned burying trash in the garden. So the bonmots are pretty much the same as the Warmhouse Association. I really think that if we're discussing such a major amendment, we need to discuss it, and I'm saying it here today for the second time, in a comprehensive amendment to the Waste Act, which will come in autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u29	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Now please get to the mic of the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u30	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up with my colleague Oklešťek. When I came to the Ministry of the Environment, I found that there are a number of different working groups working there that are totally impotently working together, making some sort of resolution, breaking up again, then reuniting and always agreeing that there's something to be done, boys and girls, but it never happened. Why didn't it happen? Because we woke up sleeping dragons. And dragons are very strong. They're strong financially, they're strong lobbyists. And dragons can maneuver. We knew this wouldn't be easy. I think Mr. Colleague The knucklehead knew it clearly. I mean, this material wasn't born in the Ministry of the Environment. We've been approached. We discussed it with Mr. Oklešťek. There were other suggestions. I myself was very, very restrained to confirm this proposal as the Ministry of the Environment because I knew this would follow. And I don't blame you at all. It really can give some kind of impression about non-transparency and why it came into existence. But believe not, why I am standing here right now and defending this proposal is the fact that this proposal is, in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, a step in the Ministry, a step in the right direction and in our factual proposal, a comprehensive amendment that it is preparing, we would go in this direction. And we just wanted to send everyone a year earlier, which means both landfillers and burners, and recyclators, and the green ones, so we just wanted to send all the parties that sit in the working groups, and for five years they're fighting intensely about how it's gonna end, and they're never gonna agree, because the antagonistic positions are so huge that they can't agree, we just said to them, "And now there's someone with a ball to say this way, folks, here's the north and this is where we're going. And we knew what was going to fall on us. And it fell apart. I still think that colleague Okleštěk and I do not regret that we have tried. Because there's always got to be someone first, and there's something born on it. I would like to say, Madam President, by your means for Mr Kučera: we are really working on this, my colleague. You've known me for a while. I am not afraid to stand in front of the village, because I have here the conclusion of last week, the conclusion of the conference Waste and the village of Hradec Králové, the conclusions of the participants. It was an event where SME was significantly represented by the Czech Republic, i.e. there were a number of cities and municipalities. Yes, they too do not consider a proper legislative procedure, but they say: "We agree with the need to determine the date on which the storage of mixed municipal waste at landfills will be prohibited. The increase in landfill fees and the extension of the tolling waste circuit is considered acceptable only if the increased revenue from these charges is used for dedicated financial support. We agree with the introduction of the obligation to separate collection of biodegradable waste only if... etc.' That means they agree with the principles, but they don't like the form. And I say yes, the form is controversial in this. But we just wanted to send out a signal earlier that something was going to happen. Be mad at us. Blame me. I don't feel good about it either, that it might look like that. I think I'm a completely transparent person, and you'll know it in the next few months, if you give me a chance, you'll know it in all the discussions, because we're expanding our working groups to everyone, putting them in there, and we're saying, "Let's discuss it." But at some point, someone has to say we're going this way. 'Cause if we leave it to the working groups, in five years, we'll be talking again about whether or not we're gonna raise the landfill charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u31	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Kučera, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u32	Thank you for the floor. My name came up, so I feel obliged to respond. I have more or less two things on you, Minister. If you really wanted to work it off, and if you had, as you say, balls, you would have raised the banner of this law yourself, you would have come before the Chamber of Deputies, at first reading you would have read an amendment to the law that contained these points - and I really am not, indeed, against the things that are mentioned in Mr Oklešťek's amendment. I'm against the way we're discussing this. [[16.40 hours]] This would be discussed properly in the inter-ministert, at first reading you would present this proposal, which would be properly discussed by the relevant committees. That would be really right, so it should work. You didn't have the courage, you passed the law on to your party colleague. And that you have done this, your deputy Mr Manhart, who published a wide interview in the last issue of the magazine Drain, I suspect one A4 where he is really bragging about this law, how well it was prepared by the Ministry, how necessary it is and that, of course, he believes that it has broad support in the Chamber of Deputies and that this law will pass. Unfortunately, he didn't meet in time, 'cause I guess the conversation came out about 14 days ago. So maybe you didn't know about it, so in that case, you should clear up the Ministry. Or you knew about it, and of course it's not true that you didn't prepare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u33	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and now, please, to Mrs Nytrová's microphone, duly signed up for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, Colleagues, Colleagues, Parliamentary Proposal on a Government Bill amending Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on waste and on the amendment of certain other laws, should not, in my opinion, be adopted without opinions from the professional public, without extensive expert discussion, without discussion with representatives of cities and municipalities. Experts should be given the floor on committees so that they can comment on professional subjects. We Members, with all due respect, are not experts, for example, on waste management. Each of us has a variety of information that results, among other things, from where we come from, how we dump there, what we do in our civil life, with which experts we discuss the subject with. The programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic in the field of environment states: The government will prepare an amendment to the Waste Act in order to reduce the share of landfilled waste and, on the contrary, increase the level of waste recycling, including biological waste at the level of advanced European countries. The government will support waste prevention programmes and create a system of incentives and charges to encourage citizens to sort waste. We should approach the preparation of this amendment to the Waste Act systemically, transparently, after a broad expert discussion, by a standard legislative process, and not by a shortcut in some accelerated process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u35	I thank the honourable Member and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, I conclude the general debate and ask the appellant if he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. The rapporteur? Only in a detailed debate. Okay. Before we proceed to a detailed debate, several proposals have been made for the committee to renegotiate the draft law. Before I vote on this, I'm going to invite my colleagues from the lobby, and I'm going to sign you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Thank you. I am opening the vote that the bill will be returned to the renegotiation of the Committee on the Environment. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 94, in which 141 Members are enrolled, for 41, against 81. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We are therefore negotiating and I am opening a detailed debate in which I have Mr Böhnisch signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. And in order not to delay, I just want to refer to my amendment, which is registered in the system under number 962. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u37	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. The rapporteur? Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u38	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I have one amendment before me that I would like to read directly, and that is in point 4, resolution of the Committee on the Environment No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment reads: in the newly inserted section 37 k para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) the words "even in the context of the mobile collection of hazardous waste § 17 para. 3' deleted. Justification: This is a legislative technical amendment to the resolution of the Committee on the Environment. Section 17, par. 3 is amended by the preceding paragraphs of the resolution and the new wording of this paragraph does not contain provisions on mobile collection of hazardous waste. The reference to it should therefore be deleted from point 4. That's one thing. And the second thing, on the basis of the plaintiff of this law, I ask that the deadline be reduced to 48 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u39	Thank you and now, please, another one entered in the detailed debate, Mrs Havlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my dear government, I regret that the bill has not been renegotiated, but I respect the will of the House. She would therefore like to sign up here for her amendment under the number of House document 948. This amendment was prepared in cooperation with the participants in the waste market and is intended to eliminate the monopolistic provisions that are in the present law. The detailed justification is attached to the reasons for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u41	Thank you, Mrs Kudela, and now, please, another one entered in the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an amendment to Mr Böhnisch's amendment. In the newly proposed section 45 para. 3. read: The compensation and basic component of the fee shall not be paid for the storage of waste and materials as technological material for the technical security of landfill in accordance with the approved project and the operating rules of the landfill. The maximum total quantity of waste and materials stored in the landfill as material for the technical security of the landfill may amount to a maximum of 20 per cent of the total weight of waste and materials stored in the landfill in that calendar year. The fourth point is inserted after this point: Material having at least one hazardous property in accordance with Annex No. 2 of this law can only be stored in a landfill as waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u43	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I conclude the detailed debate and ask the appellant if he is interested in the final word. That is so, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u44	It'll be brief. Thank you for listening to me. Thank you for all the amendments. Thank you for the criticism that was heard here, because I'm sure I'll take it to heart. Thank you for giving this proposal a chance to make it to the third reading. And I'm just recalling the proposal to shorten the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u45	Yes, I'm registering. I am now asking the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word. That's right. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u46	Thank you, too. As rapporteur, I would like to thank all those who have spoken both in detail and in the general debate, with the warning that we will be discussing several amendments at the third reading, in the resolution of the Committee on the Environment, on which I have tabled an amendment, and then the amendments under number 948, 960 and 962 and the loaded amendment by the colleague who gave it last. Otherwise, I thank you once again for the turbulent and working debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-003-005.u47	Thank you. We will now proceed to the vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to 48 hours. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 95, to which 158 were registered, of which 108, against 30. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I end with this second reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to discuss item number
