ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u1	108. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations I would like to inform you that on the agenda of the 10th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of six responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the meeting. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will therefore now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. The first is an interview with the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Minister Zaorálek responded to the interview of Mr Jitka Chalánková on the removal and subsequent division of Czech children and siblings in Norway to the citizens of the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as press 185 and the discussion of this interpelation was suspended at the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So I am opening the debate. Mrs Chalánková wants to perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u2	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all the texts of the written intercessions and answers to them were available on the website of the Chamber of Deputies. The last meeting has already begun to address this problem, yet let me briefly summarize the nature of the case once again for those who were not here last time or who did not learn from the media. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Both young children, allegedly due to sexual abuse, were taken away from Czech citizens who lived in Norway for a long time but never became Norwegian citizens. Sexual abuse has never been proven. On the contrary, all indications suggest that it was a constructed submission of employees to a local kindergarten with the clear aim of harming parents, or perhaps even getting revenge for alerting them to the lax approach of the kindergarten employees in caring for children. Although the Norwegian police themselves have already ruled out possible abuse, in other words, that the alleged reason for the removal of children to parents has completely fallen, the children have been withdrawn for the third year and there is absolutely nothing to suggest that the Norwegian authorities are going to correct their obvious misrepresentation. In addition, both siblings are separated because no foster family has been found wanting to raise them together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u3	I am asking for peace so that the honourable Member can finish her performance. This is a serious matter and please pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All the answers to my interpelations have three common characters. Firstly, they show distrust for the mother of children and trust in Norway and its system. I dare say that this would happen in Somalia or Pakistan, the reaction of ministers would be carried in a completely different spirit. But it happened in Norway, and Norway is a model state for many of us. Norway can't do anything wrong. Apparently, therefore, the answer clearly shows an effort to trust the Norwegian government more than the Czech mother. At the same time, the Norwegian authorities themselves are convicted of error. All you have to do is read their decision, including their justification, so that every unbiased reader can see that justice did not work here on the Norwegian side. I call for correction in this particular case, in which the error is clearly substantiated. Secondly, all the answers work with the decisions of the Norwegian authorities as a duty, as something the Czech State is obliged to respect. Why should he? Under what international treaty, when Norway is not a contracting party to such a contract? These Norwegian decisions are not binding on the Czech State at all. For the Czech state they are still obliged to take care of their parents' children. It is a clear conflict of jurisdiction, Czech and Norwegian. However, from the answers of our ministers, I feel that if the children appeared on Czech territory tomorrow, they would return them to Norway with an apology. I ask, Madam Secretary, Minister, on what basis do you respect the decision of the Norwegian State authorities, which de iure you are not even supposed to know? Isn't it because you don't trust the facts that you don't believe that something like this is possible in Norway? And thirdly, and once again, it is predestined by distrust of the facts. All answers are formulated as a defense of why the Czech Republic cannot intervene in any way, virtually. why it has not intervened long ago, and why it cannot be relied on in the future. Therefore, the answers to my interpelations contain no promise that the Czech state will stand up for its citizens. Therefore, they do not contain any outlines of the solution. It is simply because the Czech State is more on the side of Norway than on the side of its citizens. But, like other countries in similar cases, there is a need to look for ways to achieve their own, not to justify why nothing can be done and only to bitterly adopt Norwegian rules of the game. Getting imposed on someone else's rules is equal to defeat. I am returning to the last meeting when I intervened with Minister Zaorálek, who also responded to me in this plenary. Since it is not present today because, according to my information, it opens up a tourist season, I will allow myself to go back to this in the general debate. I would just like to point out that, as part of the warnings of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is possible that an alert should be made to the travels of Czech families with children to Norway. Let me sum up what I said in the direction of Minister Zaorálek at the time. The Conservative Service is set up to deal with typical situations according to pre-defined procedures. But this case is special. There is no template for him and therefore the solution needs to be transferred to a diplomatic or even international legal level. I'm sorry you didn't mention the possibility of so-called diplomatic protection as a specific institute of public international law with a deep tradition. I do not agree that the next step can only be taken by judicial means. There is a need for diplomatic pressure that will cause Nor herself to do this case, which is just a disgrace to them, to do no debauchery. So far, this is for Minister Zaorálek in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u5	Yes, thank you. I will ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. It's not like that. So, if the lady still wants to speak, of course, she has room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u6	Not in general anymore. I have just made a proposal until a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u7	With the resolution, okay. So I would end the general debate. Now I ask Mrs Chalánková to tell us what motion for a resolution she has prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u8	I would like to read my motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the reply to the written interpelation of Mrs Jitka Chalánková to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek on the removal and subsequent division of Czech children, siblings, citizens of the Czech Republic, Norway, according to House press number 185'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u9	Yes, thank you. I will call my fellow Members from the lobby to vote on this motion for a resolution. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 52, registered 135, for 57, against 12. This proposal has not been adopted. We will also continue further in writing with an interview by Mrs Chalánková, this time at the Minister of Justice. Excuse me, Mr Laudát is reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I hope you realize what you said in your vote to the public. Opening the tourist season, formal answers take precedence over solving the child's enormous life problem and his mother. Thank you for showing up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u11	Yes, but... That was Mr Laudát's speech with priority rights. We will now discuss the 186 press, which is Mrs Chalánková's interpellation to the Minister of Justice on the same matter, that is, the removal and subsequent division of Czech children. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I am at least satisfied with your answers. I'll admit I was surprised. The questions were purely technical and I expected a more legal, more analytical text. My first question was whether the decision of the Norwegian authorities, which took children from Czech parents by the Norwegian authorities, was also binding on the state authorities of the Czech Republic. That is a question to which there is either an answer yes or an answer no. Instead, I got an interpretation from you that both Norway and the Czech Republic are a party to the European Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Decisions on Child Education and the Restoration of Children from May 20, 1980, number 66/2000 Collections of International Treaties and that the issue of the binding nature of Norwegian decisions is not relevant at the moment. How come it's not relevant? Do you have no idea how the Czech authorities should proceed if both children were to reach Czech territory? How am I supposed to understand your answer? That the Norwegian decision is like a state to us until it's judged, just a piece of paper? Then why do you mention the treaty? Or is it binding automatically? Then why do you mention that recognition is not relevant at the moment? So when will it be relevant? [[9.30 hours]] What do you think is to be done in this case from the convention and the reservations made by the Czech Republic? Madam Secretary, I do not question the Norwegian State's competence under Norwegian law based on permanent residence. I ask, however, whether this authority automatically recognises Czech law and whether, in addition to Norwegian jurisdiction, Czech jurisdiction is given. If not, I ask which provision of the Czech law the conclusions of your ministry are based on. Madam Secretary, pursuant to § 56 para. 1 new law on private international law - I quote: "If the competence in matters of maintenance obligations and matters of parental responsibility is not regulated by the directly applicable EU regulations," which is not in our case, "is in matters of nutrition, education and other matters of care for minors, including measures to protect their person and property, given the jurisdiction of the Czech courts, if the minor has a normal residence in the Czech Republic or if he is a Czech citizen, even if he is a habitual resident abroad." That's what I quote. It is clear from this that the jurisdiction of the Czech courts is given, despite Norway's unilaterally claiming such power. Madam Secretary, what happens if one of the parents brings a lawsuit in the Czech court on behalf of minors? If such an action is pending, or if it is rejected, with parents deprived of parental rights by the Norwegian court? What happens if one of the parents brings an action before the Czech court to determine that he is entitled to take care of his children, so-called. Is the urgent legal interest justified by the fact that another entity, namely the Norwegian State, prevents it from exercising its parental rights? What happens if the child's mother returns to the Czech Republic, enrolls here for permanent residence and wants to register her children as their legal representative in terms of Czech law? Will it be allowed to do so, or will it be rejected by reference to a decision of the Norwegian State authorities? What happens if the mother relocates to the Czech Republic but doesn't send her children to school for understandable reasons? What happens if he asks for child support? I'd like to ask you for a detailed explanation. My second question was who is now entitled, virtually. under Czech law, he is obliged to care for and properly raise minors Denis and David. You replied that the Norwegian authorities acted under Norwegian law, which is certainly true and no one is questioning it, and that the assessment of care for minors now has no relevance. I'm sorry, but that doesn't answer my question. These children are Czech citizens and under Czech law there must be someone whom Czech law considers to be their legal representative in relation to the Czech state. They're either parents or Norwegian foster parents or someone third. So I ask for a clear answer, who is now the legal representative of both children under Czech law. My third question was whether minor Czech citizens have the right to return to the Czech Republic. You told me that you did, but that their right cannot be realized until their age. In fact, they cannot be implemented until they can make their own decisions. You can see how very relevant the question is, who is the legal representative of both children. Under Norwegian law, they are foster parents, but Czech law does not count on them. They do not exist for him and the return of children to the Czech Republic in accordance with Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms can be decided for children by their parents. Do I have to understand that the Norwegian State is prepared, if necessary, to prevent parents from exercising this right, and to violate not only their human rights but also their children's rights? Does that leave you in peace, Madam Secretary? My fourth and fifth questions concerned the possible criminal penalties for foster parents, respectively. persons who have notified everything to the Norwegian authorities. According to Czech law, this would be a perjury charge. You have answered me in the most alibi way that the assessment of such questions is not in the competence of the Ministry of Justice, but only of the law enforcement authorities. Okay. So let me ask you in general. If a Norwegian citizen who has been entrusted to the care of a minor citizen of the Czech Republic by a decision of the Norwegian court prevents this minor from returning to the Czech Republic in violation of his constitutionally guaranteed right, is he committing any criminal offence under Czech law, and what kind of offence? If a Norwegian citizen falsely accused a Czech citizen of sexual abuse and caused the removal of children, is it criminally punishable under Czech law? As a professor of criminal law, I ask you to give a general explanation of the problem. At the same time I ask you for information, respectively. on the finding of valid Norwegian law on the persecubility of perjury, i.e. whether these acts are criminally punishable even in Norway and how. Discovering foreign law is in your department's jurisdiction. My sixth question regarding the positivity of handing over Czech passports to the Norwegian authorities is that this belongs to the Ministry of the Interior. All right, I'll ask Minister Chovanec. My seventh question was about the possibility of your personal intervention. I do not understand why the Norwegian Ministry of Justice could not carry out its own investigation, if any. give him an incentive, but I understand that you no longer intend to address this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u13	Yes. Madam Secretary is reporting for the debate. Am I getting this right? Yes. Madam Secretary of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member who has intersected me. I have in my hand a relatively large component, which is available at the Ministry of Justice, and I am glad that my predecessor Mrs Benešová is present, who has also dealt with this matter extensively and has also spoken about it. Obviously with the result so far was not the party concerned, namely the Czech mother, virtually. parents, happy. In the introduction, I would generally set one reality at the right level. I myself have been involved in the creation of the Fund for Endangered Children, I have certainly not been the one that would have left things of this kind calm, and I think that in the past, precisely in cases where it was questionable to what extent the state authorities were acting fairly, objectively, in determining all the circumstances necessary for the adoption of the decision best interest of children, or absolutely the best that can be for the benefit of the child, I would not have used all my options. Even in this case, I have dealt with the matter, but as a former lawyer and as someone who always tries to look at both sides of the dispute from all possible angles, so that the picture is as objective as possible, I must point out, Madam President, that what you have, of course rightly presented here, is the view of one party. There is no view of the other party, which, of course, represents the sovereign Norwegian authorities, which are based on a premise that has not yet been confirmed or refuted. Specifically, there was a suspicion of sexual abuse. It is precisely because it is a very sensitive case, it is a minor child, it is only a suspicion, however the consequences from the point of view of the Czech mother were far-reaching, I think that the Czech authorities are constantly devoted to this issue sufficiently and constantly. As far as the width and details of your specific questions are concerned, you did not agree with the answers in writing. In my oral form, I must disappoint you at this point that I am not able to do so and I do not think that it would be right in this place to answer your questions, which, of course, in many ways exceed the competence of the Ministry of Justice. But since you have already called me from the point of view of my profession as regards the possibility of criminal sanctions against those who would act against minors in Norway beyond the borders of Czech law, and you wanted an interpretation, so be it. [[9.40 hours]] In particular, I would like to mention that, under Czech law, the withdrawal of a child from the custody of a person who is obliged to take care of him under the legislation or under the official decision is fulfilling the factual nature of the child abduction offence. I don't know if this is gonna do any good, but in any case, we have more facts here that could be hypothetically used. In such a case, the perpetrator is sentenced to three years in prison or to cash. In case his moral development is threatened, up to five years. If death is caused by such a course of action, the perpetrator may be punished, and it may not seem too much to you, it also does not seem to me much, for three years to ten years. However, I would like to point out here that we cannot assess whether, in this particular case, biological parents are those who have an obligation to care for the child under legislation or under an official decision - in this case the Norwegian State Authority. Then we have a few facts of the crime - the abuse of the entrusted person, in that basic fact one year to five years, two years to eight years, five years to twelve years. Of course, there are more crimes, including the one you mentioned. According to our Criminal Code, there are also false accusations of another person under § 345 para. 1 of the Penal Code, where the perpetrator is threatened with imprisonment for up to one year, and if there is an intention to prove it for up to three years, if - and in this case it seems to fulfil the deed - there is a more difficult result, the perpetrator could be punished for up to ten years. There's a question. The local scope of criminal legislation of the Czech Republic is also clearly explained in Section 4 and the following, and I can, of course, divorce it afterwards, but in relation to our particular case, if we do not want to use the adjective relevant, it is not really important, because we must first reach out to what territory, in what situation and under what circumstances this particular case is being dealt with. We are really based on hypothetical situations, and the only thing we can grab on to right now and on what we can build on is the official decisions of Norway, with which, both repeatedly and in writing, the Czech Republic does not have relevant legal conventions, agreements. As far as the new law on international judicial cooperation cited by you is concerned, he obviously remembers some cases. I don't think it could be applied the way you presented it here, but I can promise you that I will leave it once again, I mean a very well-trained department of the Ministry of Justice civil law legislation of the international department, to examine whether really all possibilities have been exhausted in this regard. And now for what, of course, always comes to mind. It's a personal contact. Where legal instruments are no longer sufficient for us, we can also reach out to the factual measure that the relevant Minister of Justice will contact his colleague or directly through the Norwegian Embassy here in Prague, through the protocol of his fellow Norwegian Minister of Justice. I confess to you, my dear lady, that after studying the material, I still have doubts about the facts of the case. Therefore, before I resort to this step, I would have to have more facts that would convince me that I can intervene without having the opportunity to familiarize myself with other documents for the benefit of underage children, because, in my full conviction, we must put aside interest... As follows: The primary concern is those underage children in an optimal educational environment. That's the best interest of child. This is said by the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other European Conventions. And you know that very well too. We all know that. Only in the second row is it possible to defend the interest of parents, whether biological, adoptive, or foster parents. This situation is very complicated not only in legal terms but also in human and factual terms. So in order to be involved in the child's best interests, I would have to be more convinced than I have been so far that it really is in the child's best interests. I want to apologize to you for maybe disappointing your expectations here from the speaker's counter. It doesn't mean I put my hands in my lap and didn't deal with the case any further. The case remains active. After all, you will also want more detailed answers, and the answers you receive will certainly not be formally negative. I myself wonder what the real truth is about this case. If I can only appeal personally not to mediate the case more than is necessary in terms of the interest of underage children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u15	Mrs Chalánková wishes to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u16	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I welcome and know that you are also engaged in the protection of children's rights and in work at the Children's Endangered Fund. However, to the answers you gave me - I basically asked how to start my speech because my question was: on the basis of what international agreement, when Norway is not a contracting party to such a contract. This is a clear centre of jurisdiction, Czech and Norwegian, so we would talk about it over and over again. I am pleased that you have written here what would be the threat of criminal sanctions against those who have acted in this way under Czech law. That it was a child abduction. I can say that in my experience, with the socio-legal protection of children and the pediatrician's experience, in particular, it is necessary to monitor that time is running out. I know that the Office of International Legal Protection will sometimes put an end to such cases by the fact that children have become accustomed elsewhere and that even though they should legally return to their biological parents, or if they are being kidnapped by their parents, that is to say by law, and that so many months have passed and so many years have passed, that it would not be good for them. But I don't think such decisions are quite simple and often they aren't quite right. It's a very complicated case, as you said. I asked again how we would respect Norwegian decisions in Norway. From the answers of our ministers, I feel that if children appeared on Czech territory tomorrow, they might return them to Norway with an apology. I already said that. Then I have the motion for a resolution again in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u17	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. [[Member Bendl reporting.]] It's not like that. That's the end of the debate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr Bendl reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am not familiar with the case in detail, so maybe my reaction will not be complete and will not correspond to the fact that some information is not known to me. But if I understand correctly, it was a family with two children who suspected that their parents had committed a crime on their children. Those kids were taken from them about three years ago. The siblings were separated, each living somewhere else for three years. In those three years, they haven't been proven that your parents have committed a crime on those children. [[9.50 hours]] And I'm listening to the Minister of Justice here that she's not going to call her colleague, the Minister of Justice, in Norway, to ask him about the details, because she doesn't seem to like the whole thing. Excuse me, but I think that the Czech Government and each of the ministers of the Czech Government should defend the interests of a Czech citizen anywhere in the world and should do their utmost to do so. If he can do something more than just jurisdiction, the way lawyers are talking, then he should just do it, and he shouldn't say he's gonna wait to see where it goes. I would really, and I mean it honestly now, not only would I expect the Minister of Justice, but from the whole government, the Prime Minister, and perhaps - or the Prime Minister, I would expect him to do something about it, if he hears these answers, and, in his capacity, he will turn to the Norwegian authorities and ask for an accelerated solution to the matter. So that, if there is any guilt, it is proven, but also in the Czech Republic. If something like this is happening, the Czech Republic is not a Punjab, it is not a country where we cannot take care of the children of our citizens if they have committed a crime on children, and we should do everything we can to get the children back, to take care of them as a state. I have a feeling from the whole answer that the secretary isn't interested. I'm sorry. I would very much like you, Members, not to take this House vote as a defense of your minister, but as an interest in the two children for whom this situation should be resolved. I have siblings, but 15 years younger, we have never lived together in this way all the time, or experienced intense family affairs, but you all need to know that if two siblings are together and if they are separated from each other in a foreign country, it will probably not be pleasant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u19	Madam Secretary wishes to speak and has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. That's exactly what you're pointing out, Mr. Ambassador. In other words, if I know what the best interest of these children is, of course, no one can even stop me from calling the Minister of Justice of Norway. But before that, I have to have documents, information and facts that will allow me to conduct this conversation in a certain way. You know, I've been in office for about five months, I've met this case in the floods of various interpelations, complaints, partly justified, partly unjustified, say, a month ago, six Sundays ago, and the case, as I said, is alive. That doesn't mean he's gonna be set up now. This is the case with two underage children, and I think I know as well as you do, precisely because I am actively active in this issue, and I have also advocated the adoption of many children, such as Romani children, especially in the 1990s, together with Dr. Vodičková, President of the Fund for Endangered Children, then we did not cooperate so closely, but in the context of informal cooperation I have always been available in my spare time, or you do not have to blame me for not being able to put myself in the position of underage children, on the one hand. On the other hand, I have experienced - but I will not now support the opposite position of the Norwegian kindergarten, for those documents that are logically in favour of the Czech mother and Czech parents show that this suspicion has not yet been confirmed and will probably not be confirmed. However, I met in my practice with many cases where it turned out to be a little different. Personally, when I - based on what my officials will prepare for me - read that so far none of the relatives of those underage children have contacted us, the Ministry of Justice, with a request for free legal assistance to the Norwegian authorities, visited us, didn't want a consultation, in which case I think it would be more appropriate that I pick up the phone and call a Norwegian colleague, the Minister of Justice, to bother one of those relatives of the underage children and visit us at the Ministry of Justice. I can guarantee you that this is a matter in which I would always accept the particular candidate. And only after I've listened to it and completed the information that I have in writing - and which is always so dry - would I decide whether or not I will activate this last option - a departmental colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u21	Thank you. Mr. Bendl wants to get off. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u22	I'll be brief. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want Madam Secretary - or I have no idea that the Minister of Justice will judge by law whether what happened in Norway was wrong or good. That's why, I'll say, lawyers and legislation, courts in Norway. However, I would expect the Czech Minister to simply do whatever it takes to get the Czech citizen in case such things happen, to the Czech Republic and, if necessary, to be tried here. And if it's three children or two children three years apart, I'd expect more, I'll say, pressure to do something about the situation. And maybe I wouldn't wait for someone to come and ask the Attorney General. Maybe they don't have the guts to see what's going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u23	That was Mr. Bendl. Mr. Kučera, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, through Mr President, we are not really here in court, we are not having a trial here. And the evidence that's falling maybe it's not enough. I would just like to see how, for example, colleagues from the United States, colleagues from Germany would behave in this place, in the place of ministers and in the place of prime minister, as they would take care of their citizens. I think it would be at a completely different level than the government of the Czech Republic is now showing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u25	Yes. Further to the general debate - first Mrs Chalánková, then the Minister of Justice, still in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u26	I also have a rather extensive file with me, which contains a lot of decisions, a lot of contacts from parents and a lot of requests for help towards the Czech state, such as the Office for International Children Protection, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the like. It's really a lot. They have legal representation and have also brought an action to Strasbourg for the protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u27	Madam Secretary of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only learning to enter politically, but I cannot do it now. When I look at the data accompanying this file, it was your governments that did nothing about it. This case has actually been dragging for many years. And as far as the authorities and institutions quoted here are concerned, of course I know that, I was only talking about the Justice Department, which I do not have here in my background. But if, now that I am at the head of the resort, someone has been and has been dissatisfied with the service provided to him in this matter, I am happy to make amends. Of course, I can't know all the procedures of my officials. But that doesn't mean I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u29	Mrs Chalánková, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u30	I would only respond technically. I am familiar with this case from the turn of last year and this year, and since then I have been fully committed to this case. So it's just to the edge of this right over here. At the same time, I wanted to ask the House not to take this case politically. That's why I didn't want the vote to be taken, to solve who was ever responsible. Because we must not forget that this case must be resolved quickly and resolved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u31	If no one goes further into the general debate, I will put an end to it and ask Mrs Chalánková to propose a resolution to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u32	I would like to make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the reply to the written interpelation of Mrs Jitka Chalánková to the Minister of Justice on the removal and subsequent division of Czech children, siblings, citizens of the Czech Republic in Norway, according to House press number 186'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u33	Yes. I'm still registering the check-out application, so I'm gonna check you all out... I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as Mrs Chalánková has put it, i.e. the disagreement of the Chamber of Deputies with the Minister's reply. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 53, registered is 121, for 52, against 38. This proposal has not been adopted. We will continue with the press 187, which is again Mrs Chalánková's interpelation, this time for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the same issue, i.e. removal and subsequent division of Czech children in Norway. Madam, please have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, thank you for the comprehensive general interpretation of the issue of removing vulnerable children contained in your answer to my first question. I agree, and I am glad to hear it from you, that the removal of a child from the family is to be an absolutely extreme means of protecting him. I add that, unfortunately, this is not often the case in practice and that the number of such errors abroad is increasing. You will also agree with me that only a child who is at risk can be taken away. However, in the case at hand, children who were not at risk were taken. I do not agree with you if you say that - I quote: "The setting of a border, which is considered to be imminently threatening, is, however, different between states and is subject to national legislation of which State." International standards are adopted to unite the practice of states. If it were true that any state could interpret its international obligations as it would like, it would be a denial of the very meaning of international law. Partial derogations may be possible within the scope of the diversity of different cultures, provided that the contract permits this. But then, at least according to the current case law of the International Court of Human Rights and according to the practice of the UN Committee on Human Rights, these derogations need to be taken into account by national courts with foreigners, not to ignore them, as the Norwegian authorities do in the Czech case. Indeed, any national interpretation must not deny human rights, including children's rights. Unfortunately, that is what has happened and is still happening in Norway. The Norwegian authorities trampled on the human rights of Czech children and their Czech parents under the pretext of their own interpretation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and ignored cultural differences between the typical Norwegian and typical Czech family. They simply treated the Czech family as if they were Norwegian, respectively. She was affected because she was little Norwegian. You also state that you do not have any information on the case where the Norwegian authorities eventually allowed Indian children whose parents were Indian citizens to return home after the diplomatic intervention of the Indian government. Madam Secretary, I don't understand how your subordinates could even afford to put such an answer in your pen. I understand you don't know about this case, but your subordinates are supposed to know. And if they don't know, they're supposed to get information quickly and act like they've already got the case in hand. It's their job. This case proves that when the home state wants and tries, children can be brought back. No wonder the Czech Republic hasn't achieved anything since your officials still have no idea about this case. Come in. You have completely avoided the answers to my third question. The question was whether you were willing to intervene personally in favour of the return of children to the Czech Republic with your Norwegian resident colleague, Minister for Children, equal opportunities and social inclusion, Mrs Solveig Horne. In response, you state everything but whether you intend to engage yourself personally in the matter. Perhaps it would be enough to pick up the phone or meet your Norwegian colleague during a meeting, explain the situation, and maybe then she could get her own order. Maybe he just doesn't know about the case, just like you don't know the details of all cases taking children from families in the Czech Republic. Your sentence that the possibilities of further diplomatic negotiations are being considered is certainly not enough for me. In addition, it raises further questions: How come others? Has she had any diplomatic negotiations yet? And what other negotiations are being considered? On what level? What is their result? I cannot agree either that the matter is solely within the jurisdiction of the Norwegian authorities, that children never lived in the Czech Republic and do not speak Czech. None of this is true. One of the children lived in the Czech Republic for about a year, it is contained in my interpelation, at a time when the mother did not have a residence permit in Norway, even though her husband and father lived there. Both children have a wider family background. Of course, parents taught children both in Czech and Norwegian. It was a typical bilingual family. It wasn't the parents' intention to raise Nora's children. Only the removal of children caused the children to gradually forget Czech because there is no one in their vicinity who would speak Czech with them. Even the mother was forbidden to speak their native language, which is Czech, during her very limited permitted contact with children. If anyone claims that children have never lived in the Czech Republic and that they do not speak Czech, it is confirmed that they do not know the whole case properly, although it is said to have been dealt with since January 2013. And at the same time, he insults their mother. One of the first tasks of the Czech state should be the absolute minimum that can happen for those children, to make sure that Norwegian social services provide daily teaching of their native language, i.e. English. Those children are not only entitled to do so, but also entitled to compensation for every day they did not. I do not agree that the Czech authorities are not competent. The jurisdiction of the Czech courts is given. From the point of view of the Czech Republic, their biological parents still have the right and at the same time the obligation to care for children. The Czech Republic has never properly recognised Norwegian decisions and even does not know about them de iure. The fact that Norway is not a Contracting Party to the Convention on the Powers of Authorities, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in matters of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children, agreed in The Hague on 19 October 1996, is not an argument that the Czech Republic is out of the game. On the contrary. This means that the Czech Republic is not obliged to recognise any Norwegian decision in the matter at all. It is a typical conflict of jurisdiction between Czech and Norwegian, as it is taught in private international law courses. Arguing that Norway is not a contracting party to this Convention is absurd. This is no obstacle to us, but rather an advantage in possible diplomatic negotiations. Why, Madam Secretary, do you act as if Norwegian decisions were binding on you and the Czech Republic when we are not obliged to do anything at all - at least not until the Czech court recognizes them? Madam Secretary, did you not answer my fifth question, which was: Can you describe how the Czech state authorities would treat the citizens of Norway in a similar situation? There's obviously been a misunderstanding between us. In fact, unlike you, I don't suppose there was any reason to remove children from my parents, so I don't feel the need to defend Norwegian social services. This is the only way I can explain your answer that the Czech authorities would act identically. [[10.10 hours]] I'll clarify my question just in case. Can you describe how the Czech state authorities would proceed in a situation where they would only suspect the sexual abuse of children by one of the parents? If children were taken away and placed in temporary foster care on the basis of mere suspicion, would it be acceptable to separate siblings? And how would the Czech state authorities proceed if it were subsequently proved that there was no sexual abuse in fact and that the giving up might have been a way to get revenge on parents and, possibly, on account of their nationality? Would we really treat such a situation identically, i.e. leaving children in foster homes and pretending that nothing had happened? Would it not rather be appropriate to return children to such parents immediately, apologize to them and to compensate everyone, because otherwise we would risk diplomatic intervention from Norway, among other things, and to initiate criminal prosecutions against the notifiers for perjury? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u35	Thank you, Madame. Madam Secretary reporting. Please, you have the floor. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Mrs. Michaela Marksová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u36	Mr President, honourable Members, I would first of all like to reiterate that the children were born in Norway. If one boy was in the Czech Republic for some time, it was only part of his life. There's no way I want to underestimate this case, but I guess, as the Minister of Justice said here, I don't know if the reason for the removal from the family really went away, if it turned out that there was no violence. Otherwise, I would also like to say that what our ministry can do is help through the Office for International Child Protection, which is based in Brno. This office has repeatedly dealt with the wider family, and has helped the mother. Even actively under previous governments, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has asked that boys be given up as so-called diplomatic protection, which, as I was informed, is the only way to get them into the Czech Republic. As far as I know, it was the previous foreign minister who didn't do it after all, because this case has been going on for a long time. I think that there is currently a case in the European Court of Human Rights. I think as soon as this international case is involved, maybe it's the best thing that can happen. Otherwise, I repeat, all the help that my resort here could have done was definitely done. And diplomatic interventions were also made, they were dealt with by the embassy. As you say, I can still write a letter for myself, or maybe later call a Norwegian colleague, but I do not think that this is going to help much at the time of the European Court. But as I'm saying, there's no way I'm underestimating this case. I also talked to the Director of the Office for International Legal Protection for a very long time, and I tried to understand that. And what he said to me is that in Norway, there are just completely different standards of child protection, where the child's interest is taken as something completely holy, and maybe in certain cases it may seem to us to be overreacting to the other side again. But you're right. They don't care if it's a Czech, Norwegian or Indian child, they measure all the same subway. I was informed that Great Britain had a similar approach. It does not distinguish any cultural differences between families at all, but it simply has certain rules for dealing with children in the family and does not go over the train. As far as siblings are concerned. I'm just pointing out that I'm very happy that we're dealing with a case of children in Norway, but I'd just like to point out that we have a whole range of national cases that are much more dramatic or at least equally dramatic. Anyone who's encountered any particular cases, you know they're absolutely heartbreaking cases. Fighting to separate siblings when they're taken from a biological family. The fact that they are not actually meant to separate, but even state institutions do so, and sometimes even the Fund of Endangered Children does so when the situation arises. There are discussions that have been going on for years. Otherwise, I would have put in a terrible intercession, and I would have liked it if this case brought your attention to national problems, which are much more numerous. And here, specifically, in this department. I was informed that probably, as the children of the family were traumatized, they were basically out of control together. They had very hyperactive behavior, perhaps even aggressive behavior, and perhaps for this reason they were divided, because otherwise, of course, they do not approach division. But I say that similar situations happen here in the Czech Republic in Czech families. They are often blessed by the Czech official authorities. In conclusion. I would like to say that we are most devoted to the family. And I'm really saying that we're trying to get the kids back into the wider family. All I can do is, as the honourable Member has said, to contact my colleague, which I will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u37	This is Mr. Laudát. After that, Mrs Chalánková will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. If I'm listening here, Prime Minister, please, some of your ministers, some of them don't, download the data, try to do something about it. Even by the political pressure and weight of their personalities as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u39	Mrs Chalánková has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u40	I would like to briefly respond and explain to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that the parents have been cleared of all charges. Just so we're clear. Nevertheless, they continue to be removed from the family and divided. As far as the Child Protection Office is concerned, I'm sure the mother has turned to them. There have been great delays in time, which in this case is a very sensitive matter, and it also concerns the case brought before the European Court of Human Rights, because the solution may take so long that it is no longer necessary for the children and the whole family. That's why I'm pointing out this case. I return again to the fact that the answers of our ministers are that we recognise Norway and do not prevent Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u41	Madame Němcová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the answers to oral questioning are such a special parliamentary discipline, which is sometimes also seen as a conflict between the opposition and the coalition, and that is how Members vote. Once in defense of his secretary, so that it doesn't look like it's not being held, and they don't take into account the content at issue. Mrs Chalánková here, according to my listening to the previous interpelation, has given herself a hard time to reach out to all the Resor ministers that might be involved in this matter. She produced a very detailed series of questions and asked for answers. The vote on the previous interpelation showed that part of the House only decided to stand on the side of its Minister and did not judge whether there were real parents who could not take care of their children. You're dads, you're mothers. Try to imagine that they are your children, that you are listening to the endlessly "we have called somewhere, we haven't called somewhere, it belongs to me, it doesn't belong to me, I will try again, we will see what is possible, what will not be possible" How long would that leave you in peace? I don't think that's a minute. That's why I consider your decision to be wrong. I can't change it, but I think it was led by bad intentions. The second thing I want to say is that Minister Marksová said here that she is happy if this subject draws our attention to what is happening inside the Czech Republic in terms of similar cases and said perhaps worse that she would be pleased. I'm just not happy. I think that if she knows that such cases are happening, that's why she's in an executive role, and if she thinks there's a need for a change in some law that would lead to a correction of the situation and make it possible for these things to not be done nationally, then she has to come up with that law, not tell us here that she's happy that it's gonna attract our attention. It really can't solve anything. It can only happen that there will be other Members or Members who will seek a way to resolve oral questioning because they do not see any other option, but that, as we can see, is not helping those mothers and fathers. So I would like to conclude by asking the Minister to specify more precisely what the problem is within the Czech Republic in this context and what perspective the solution wants to offer us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u43	I will ask who is next reporting for the general debate. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u44	Mr President, honourable Members, I would just like to reiterate here that this case has been going on since 2011, when it was taken away. And I wonder if the previous governments were intersected here. What did you do for it? And that was, as far as I know, if the information is correct, it was Minister Schwarzenberg, who somehow didn't do and didn't use the diplomatic protection institute here. That's one thing. And the second thing about national affairs, it's just stuff that's been going on here for years, and there's no point in discussing it now, so you can write a special interpelation on it. I think our laws are pretty good, but sometimes how social-legal protection is applied is a little complicated. Just as there are, of course, complex individual cases. I'm not saying that children are being taken out illegally, but you know that from the media that some of these cases are very problematic. And what I also have to say is that when I've met different people over the years, it's really hard to see inside them completely in detail, so it's so hard sometimes to judge if the authorities, who has progressed, are right, Mrs. Vodičková of FOD, or is right, in quotes, state social worker and so on. However, I repeat again, the case has been in progress since 2011. So what happened here in the years between? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u45	Mr Kučera, then Mrs Chalánková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u46	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary through Mr President, you know, I have a son at home at preschool age. And your argument about what anyone's ever done reminds me a little of his argument, when he says, I didn't do it, it did František and it was already done, it already has. I would very much like you to take this seriously as Minister of Government of the Czech Republic and start acting on this matter and not acting like a pre-school child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u47	Mrs Chalánková has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u48	I repeat briefly that I know about this case from the turn of the year, December - January, and from that moment on I am fully devoted to it. As far as the laws that should change are concerned, I'm sure I'm available and I know exactly what laws they are and what they were inspired by. What practice and in which countries. But first of all, I would like to point out that our actions in this House are monitored by the mother of these children, so she really expects us to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u49	Mr Vácha has the floor now, after which Mr Klaška has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u50	Mr President, colleagues, I have already performed last time the Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke. When I listen to the speeches of the other ministers, I have to say that I have four children at home and I am afraid to go abroad with them so that someone does not accuse me of something and those children have not been taken away from me and I have returned to the Czech Republic without them and asked the Government of the Czech Republic for help and she will be throwing hot potatoes from one ministry to another, from one official to another, and I will not see that help. I think it doesn't matter what government, but I think you should start doing something, you should start acting, and you should help those Czech citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u51	Mr. Klaška, then Mr. Mr. Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u52	Mr President, colleagues, I am also very interested in this case. I would also ask the Prime Minister, the Czech Government, to do its utmost to protect Czech citizens. But I'm also interested because it's been going on for three years - what have the previous governments been doing? Let's ask. What were the previous governments, previous foreign ministers, previous ministers, who are intersecting today, Mrs Chalánková? However, I will also ask the Czech Government to be in office for five months to do everything they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u53	Yes. First, I will ask you for peace, and I will ask the debate on the right of me to transfer the debate to the foyer. Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u54	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to thank the honourable Member for taking up this matter and devoted herself to it so intensively for the last five or six months, that it is also the subject of an intercession. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that, at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to present a report on the progress of the members of the Government in this matter starting in 2011, when this event took place and ending in June or July this year. Because it is a case that affects the mandate of three governments of the Czech Republic - the government of Petr Nečas, the government of Jiří Rusnok, the government of Bohuslav Sobotka. This means, during the period in which this thing is taking place in Norway, three governments have taken turns in our country. Perhaps even more justice ministers have taken turns. Foreign ministers took turns, several ministers of work and social affairs took turns. And I think that the Chamber of Deputies deserves a clear answer to what a member of the government has done in this matter. I will therefore ask the departments concerned to carry out an audit of all the steps taken in this matter from 2011, and I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the outcome of this audit at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thus, I would speak specifically in this matter at the next meeting, and I would introduce the Chamber of Deputies to the steps that have been taken and the steps that the Government of the Czech Republic will take in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u55	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before we continue the debate, a few technical announcements. Mr Pfléger - replacement card number 13. Mrs Putnová - card number 9. Furthermore, Mr Pavera apologizes between 12 and 16 o'clock, Mr Šincl within 13 hours. Mr. Kubíček between 14 and 17 o'clock. Mr Votava after 2:00 p.m. and Mr Kořenek from 14:30 p.m. That's an apology. Mr. Zlatuška has the floor now. After that, Mr Kučera, Mr Bendl and Mrs Chalánková will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister. To what the Prime Minister here said a moment ago, I would just recommend adding a presidential office, because even from here, there were voices from lawyers that they were dealing with it. But the criticism of how we defend or prevent the ministers' answers. What Mrs. Němcová said here, I think it's less temperature out there than it was yesterday, but it's at a higher temperature, so I'm kind of worried it might come out, I don't know, in Norway's declaration of war. Luckily, we don't have submarines. Or maybe to disclaim the use of Norway's funds or to return the money. Atmosphere looks like this to me. Let us remember that legal disputes, however emotional they seem and, of course, as parents we tend to feel about parents and such disputes here, each such dispute has two sides. And it is certainly advisable to trust judicial institutions and fair judicial procedures. And from the point of view of the lessons referred to here by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I would recommend that we make some comparison for the future about what social welfare and childcare looks like in Norway and in our country, whether the standard that is there is substantially better and should not be taken over rather than resisted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u57	Thank you and please to Mr Kučera's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u58	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciate Prime Minister Sobotka's words that he will take the case on his own and that he will present his report to the Chamber of Deputies, and I really think that I appreciate it sincerely. However, I would very much like this report not to be some historical excursion that promised us here, which may, of course, be mentioned in a few sentences, but if the report were more focused on the proposals for solutions and on how we would proceed. Perhaps there would be an interesting time when we want to take the individual steps. Once again, I thank the Prime Minister for taking this case personally, and I would really like to see the centre of gravity of the report in the proposals for solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u59	Thank you and please to the microphone of the next logged in, Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u60	I wanted to thank the Prime Minister very much for taking the case as he did, because it is difficult to turn to five ministers who each work has something to do with it and it is within his competence, and at the same time to see if the Prime Minister is going to do so, and to his colleague in the government of Minister Dienstbier, who has been publicly distancing himself from the matter. And I'm just quoting what he said and it's possible to get it online: "I'm not, as Minister of Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Legislation, entitled to engage in any activity to influence a case in the jurisdiction of another state." So I think that above all there is the interest of the Czech Government in defending the interests of citizens throughout the Czech Republic and using it not only to appeal to the fact that the laws in another country are such and we must respect them as I have learned from my colleague Zlatuška. That, I think, is really very little. I would very much like for the Prime Minister to sign up to this case so that Members across the political spectrum will support the resolution that he will impose on the Prime Minister to also provide us with clear steps in the information that the government or Prime Minister will take in order to return the children to the Czech Republic as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the next one entered in the debate is Mrs Chalánková, then Mrs Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u62	Basically, my previous speakers have said a lot of things for me. I wanted to respond to Mr Zlatuška. Again, this is a typical conflict of jurisdiction and the Czech Republic and the Czech courts have never recognised Czech decisions. [[Norwegian]] That's what I said at the start of my speech. I thank the Prime Minister, and I also wanted to ask that we look at how quickly we can help parents and children, so, above all, to describe the steps and take those steps that will resolve this case as quickly as possible, because this is really about time. It is probably not a place to talk about the legislation of social-law protection of children at present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u63	Thank you, Madame, and please now to the microphone of Mrs Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madame Governing Meeting. I wanted to respond to Mr Zlatuška, who is not here, but the rest of you are here. He said that in such cases it is good to trust the courts and wait, including us, including ministers, until the courts deal with it, and that therefore the emotional charge that we put into this is probably inappropriate from his point of view, because, after all, the courts are the ones to decide in such matters, and whether we are parents or not parents, we have a calm head and no emotional charge to wait for it. And I want to say one of my experiences, which I also have with the courts, and I reject this theory that the courts are just the ones that are completely and infallible in all cases and always solve it better for us. Experience is from about ten years ago when I served one of the interpellings. It concerned to death the abused four-year-old girl of her mother's species, and the Czech courts had this case for nine years among themselves, with all the evidence of how brutally the four-year-old child had been tortured and tortured to death, all the evidence had been given to them, and in formal terms they passed them on to each other for nine years. After the intervention of the interpelation that was here, then some sort of solution and condemnation of this child's brutal killer occurred. So I'm sorry, the emotional charge I think everyone who's a mother or a father or isn't even a mother or a father just knows that children are beings to be protected, and that the rights of mothers and fathers are rights that have special regard. It is necessary, it is necessary, without this emotional concern we simply cannot take a technocratic view of relations between people and family relations in particular. And on that further remark by Mr Zlatuška that it might be good to take on some social protection standards for children, perhaps even from Norway, and I do not know where everywhere, I just hope that these will not be standards that will lead to our children being re-educated into the family of Zlatuškův. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u65	Thank you, ma'am. The next enrollment is Secretary Marksová and then Professor Zlatuška. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u66	I just wanted to say one additional piece of information that I forgot, that a letter from the public defender of rights to the Norwegian rights protector of children has already gone with the question of why siblings remain divided and how, or whether the family is working at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u67	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Zlatuška's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u68	Madam President, if only you could help your colleague The Germans say that I here demanded that Norwegian labour standards be taken over by children, not standard. She was talking about standards. Those are flags, pencils. That's what's going on here. Standards, or principles of work, that was what I demanded, not waving national flags.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u69	I thank the honourable Member and the other envoys are Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u70	When Mr. Zlatuška has to show off and is incredibly rude to a lady who has performed very correctly here in response to his performance. Look what he's doing now. Before that, he said wisdom, he left, he didn't listen, and now he's the master here. When I talk to him again, he doesn't listen again. I hope that he will not join this debate again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u71	I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u72	I assume, of course, that when someone calls me that they will do it through Madam President and that I will find out from her. It's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u73	Thank you. Mrs Chalánková is still reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u74	Just a little while longer. I hope to allow Mr Zlatušek to get acquainted with the Norwegian system of social-law protection for children, because not all information can be obtained simply from these institutions, lawyers and families from Norway. I will certainly allow such an option, and I will certainly introduce this Chamber of Deputies to this practice. Then, in a detailed debate, I would like to read the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u75	Thank you. If no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate. I am now asking Mrs Jitka Chalánková what she is proposing to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u76	Motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the response to the written interpelation of Mrs Jitka Chalánková to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová on the removal and subsequent division of Czech children, siblings, citizens of the Czech Republic, Norway, according to House press number 187'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u77	Thank you. I have Mr Bendl's application here, but I would like to ask - the detailed debate is not here in the intercessions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u78	I want to make a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u79	If you want a motion for a resolution, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u80	I no longer want to comment on the system of negotiations for this meeting. [[The President has repeatedly tried to interrupt the speaker.]] I have the right to speak with the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u81	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but there is no other proposal than that you disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u82	Okay. I will therefore ask my colleague whether he would have his proposal - because the Prime Minister has signed up to this whole thing and said that he is ready to attend to the matter, I think it would be worth the resolution that will ask the Prime Minister to inform the Chamber of Deputies about the steps that will lead to the return of the children of the Czech Republic, which the Czech Government will take. I do not know of anything to prevent this resolution from being adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u83	I'm so sorry, but we'd have to place a new point. It cannot be done this way, it is after the debate. I'm sorry, but I have to comply with the Rules of Procedure. So the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies has been made here, and so I... Member Stanjura's right of priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u84	I have opened the Rules of Procedure - Section 112 of the Written Interpelations - and I would like to know from which paragraph you or an organizational person or someone could not submit a motion for a resolution. I didn't bring it there, so I would ask for an answer on which paragraph or which sentence of this interpretation. [[unintelligible]] I'm not saying you're wrong, I just didn't really get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u85	It is paragraph 5: On the proposal of the Interpelling Member, the House may, in response to the interpelation, adopt a favourable or disagreeable opinion of the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u86	But it doesn't say that he can accept only consenting or dissenting. It doesn't say he can't accept anything else. There's no such thing. I think that's an extensive interpretation. I don't think that's forbidden. It doesn't say it can only be and only. I really believe that the motion for a resolution can fall and vote on it, and the House can decide whether or not to support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u87	[[After a short break.]] I will therefore ask Mrs Chalánková to extend her motion for a resolution to that one. . [[Voices from the benches on the right: No!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u88	I am very happy to do this, but I think that the motion for a resolution has been made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u89	I will therefore vote on Mrs Chalánková's proposal at the moment... Please, Mr Stanjur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u90	I know you don't have to answer me if I ask you the question that you're behind that control desk and I'm not. If you continue by not allowing my colleague Mr Bendl to make a motion for a resolution and then vote on it, I object to your procedure and the way in which you manage this section of our meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u91	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I'm interrupting this point for ten minutes, and I'm asking the legislative department to come to a meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our negotiations. Please take your seats. Thank you. I ask Mr Stanjura to come to the speaker's counter and repeat his objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u93	Madam Vice-President, I don't usually get called up. I don't know exactly what you want from me. I raised the objection, it was an objection to how you run the meeting, but I would like to explain the situation, whatever it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u94	Absolutely. I am only asking because you said that if I did not vote on Mr Bendl's proposal, you would object. So I'm just asking what your objection is. The specific wording of the objection so that we can continue the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u95	I said it differently, first of all. And secondly, I don't know what you're gonna do. I object to the meeting, and then you say I won't, or I will. I don't know exactly right now. You took a ten-minute briefing, I assumed you'd introduce us to the outcome of the legislative briefing, and based on that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u96	I'm sure I will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u97	Well, I'd like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u98	Well, I have consulted legislation and it would be the first time in the parliamentary history of the Czech Republic that a motion for a resolution other than the consent or dissenting position of the person who interpels would fall in these interventions. It would have been a precedent that hadn't taken place by this time. This is an interpretation of the legislative and organizational department. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u99	I'm sorry - that's not an interpretation, that's information. I think there is nothing to prevent Mr Bendl from being the first to speak, and you were there at the moment as a management meeting and together you will create a new precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u100	Well, I'll have your objection to my hearing if that's the case, if that's the case... Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u101	I feel like we either can't hear each other or we don't understand each other. You said it's never happened before. I have no reason not to believe this information. I haven't been here that long. And if someone calls me a matador, I've been here about four years and I'm sure there are colleagues and colleagues here who are more experienced and who have been in the Chamber of Deputies longer than I have. I've been through this fight a couple of times that something was the first time. We also introduced three years ago for the first time that we see who is enrolled in the debate. Until then, it was never here. And it was the first time, and when I first suggested it, it was said, no, it's not political will, etc. Unfortunately, I didn't push, and it was the last time that we signed for nothing every day for the papers that are here, and we are voting here, and everyone knows whether or not we have been to the vote. But there's an employee at the table, there's a charter every day, and we go there to sign. When I suggested cancellation, the argument was: Well, we can't cancel that because it always happens. Well, I don't know if we can make a difference sometimes when it's got a head and a heel. I want to hear which paragraph or sentence forbids. Not if it's already been used or if it's already happened. I don't remember it happening either, so I'm not gonna contradict that information. But I want to hear from the legislation - I'm not saying you have to say it - why it can't be done. Which paragraph and which sentence states that a Member cannot submit a motion for a resolution in writing, and not that it has not yet happened, we are in agreement. And if I get the argument, I'll look into the Rules of Procedure, and if it's okay, I'll admit it. And if I feel different, I'll object to the way you run the meeting. This is not an objection to the management of the meeting, but to the fact that you do not wish to allow Mr Bendl to exercise his constitutional right to submit a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u102	Mr. Ambassador, I'm just following the Rules of Procedure. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies on the interpelation of Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Initiating this vote... [[Votes from the plenary: Mr Stanjura raised an objection.]] Mr Stanjura, the MP, did not object... [[Request from the diaper to check out.]] Yes, I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your cards. Please, Mrs Chalánková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u103	Since it is 11 o'clock, I believe that this item should be discussed at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-001-108.u104	Okay, well, I'm interrupting the interview. [[Short silence.]] We will now proceed to discuss the point.
