ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u1	8. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Polčák, Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended Constitutional Laws /House print 43/ - second reading [[16.00 hours]] I ask that Mr Stanislav Polčák take his place at the rapporteur's table as a representative of the appellants and that the rapporteurs of the various committees be prepared, namely Mr Lukáš Pleticha, Mr Pavel Blažek and Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. As far as the constitutional amendment is concerned, I would like the rapporteur to follow the debate to be the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee and to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. The others can stay in their seats. I therefore now ask Mr Stanislav Polčák to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear members of the Government, I would like to make this press very briefly at second reading regarding the amendment of the Constitution and, in particular, the competence and position of the Supreme Audit Office in the Czech Constitutional System, and the follow-up standard of the law which has been submitted, however, the House has been returned, and I therefore assume that the debate will also be about the legal standard which should then come from the constitutional text. It is important to say that the House press was, in principle, a reception of what the House had already approved in the past period, which was adopted by a broad political consensus, but the press presented in this way was rather radically revised and amended in the context of two committees. At the beginning of my speech, I want to say that the amendments adopted by both committees are, in principle, acceptable, subject to a committee of constitutional law, which has adopted an amendment which is slightly different from the amendment adopted in the control committee. It is different that it may contain a rather fundamental interpretational uncertainty that would already occur at the level of the Constitution, because it says - and in this I would like to quote in principle - that it will be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office by the exercise of property rights which the State has, virtually. local authorities, in commercial companies, enterprises. The question is whether this wording is the happiest and whether it affects all other subjects, such as Czech Television, Czech Radio, Czech Press Office, which in the original proposal are calculated as those which can be controlled. From this constitutional definition, I think it is at least constitutionally questionable whether, for example, the companies owned by municipalities will be controlled to the same extent, since this interpretation can answer this question, which control will therefore be carried out by the Supreme Audit Office, so this interpretation can lead to the control of how the State performs, respectively. the territorially self-governing community, these property rights. I do not understand why it is simply not stated in the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee that these entities are being controlled, why there is a link or why there is the wording of "the exercise of property rights'. I have consulted this issue with several experts, colleagues on constitutional law and, in particular, on administrative law, and indeed, this confusion is here. At the very least, then, it is necessary from those who have pushed through this resolution to justify and defend them in their view that it also affects the position of Czech Television and other entities, which I think should be under control, and further, as is meant by the control in the entities in which it has the State, respectively. local authorities, share. I would also like to point out that, in the framework of the constitutional amendment adopted in this way, it should be clear, even when it is adopted, where the border will reach at legal level, because in the law that I have put forward, the limit has been set by a majority share of over 50 per cent. Now we don't know. What's the limit? Is it going to be a smaller line? There are surrounding states that have smaller borders, but we should know what will be the legal change that will be based on this constitutional text. Last but not least, I would like to ask my colleagues, in particular, from social democracy and the Prime Minister, to give a certain guarantee and guarantee that this extended control of the Supreme Audit Office will be accepted by the Senate, because the previous regulation, which, on the contrary, limited, as far as the rights of municipalities are concerned, the control of legality and this constitutional amendment, as submitted to me, is still rejected and an amendment is tabled, which includes full control of municipalities and cities. So I ask my colleagues from social democracy and Prime Minister Sobotka personally to guarantee that if the House approves such a strict amendment to the Constitution, that such a strict amendment to the Constitution will pass in the Senate so that we will not see the same blunder again, as it was in the previous year when the Constitution was approved in the Chamber of Deputies, but failed in the Senate. So I really ask the representatives of social democracy who have a majority in the Senate whether they are able to give such a guarantee. Instead of seeking consensus between the two chambers, we were witnessing the debate that Members and Senators had and as if they were not listening at all. The senators made it clear at the session of the Constitutional Legal Committee that they were not in favour of a text which was more favourable to municipalities than what is now being proposed in the resolutions adopted by both the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee. At the same time, I am surprised at how she was active in the matter - virtually. inactive - Minister Jourová. Minister Jourová said here at first reading, and I would like to quote this because I think it is quite significant: "I would like to say that we agree with the principle of strengthening the competence of the SAO and that we assume that during the legislative process there will be room for us to open up the issue of control of the authorities so that we do not touch their constitutional right to self-management of property and then the control of companies with public participation so that we do not again touch their ability to operate on the market." None of this has been presented and the opposite is presented. So I not only ask Prime Minister Sobotka if he gives this guarantee for the Senate, but I ask Minister Jourová what she has been doing throughout the negotiations during the extended time of the legislative process, because what is being presented is the opposite. It is an extension of what concerns municipalities and cities, which means full control. I'm not against it. I've said it in public several times, but I wanted to make a call from the Senate. The Senate is unvoted on this matter. Senators are not stupid people, and they know that if they don't push it into the Constitution, they can't rely on the law anymore, because as far as the law is concerned, the Chamber of Deputies can overrule their veto, and it will certainly look according to its will. The senators know this very well and they will want and will demand guarantees in the constitutional text. After all, the Minister also spoke of them, but no amendment of this type was tabled and, on the contrary, the texts were quite opposite. I think everything can actually just be a game. The game on how the powers of the Supreme Audit Office will be extended, but, on the contrary, no competence will spread and in various companies that are under the influence of the new government, the new ministers, or the local authorities, will continue to steal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants and ask the various rapporteurs to make their views known. First, Mr Lukáš Pleticha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u4	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, the Constitutional Legal Committee has received this material for discussion and has discussed it repeatedly. At the first hearing, he interrupted it, that was on 11. 3. 2014 and subsequently took him back to the meeting and it was at the next meeting on 23. 4. 2014 when one of the amendments was approved, i.e. the proposal that came out of the Constitutional Legal Committee and which we will soon get to. During the debate, both during the interruption in March and in April, a fundamental question was addressed as to how this provision should be drawn up and the powers of the Supreme Audit Office should be defined. Whether it's going to be named who's going to control who or what and according to what criteria. Finally, it outweighed the view that it was better to define in some way what would be controlled according to certain criteria, and the proposal that was put forward there was designed accordingly. In a similar philosophy, then, it was actually before, tabled an amendment and discussed in the inspection committee and then a colleague Stupčuk will comment on this. So today we have two proposals, and from the reactions that came out, it turns out that more support has been given to the proposal, which has been approved by the Audit Committee, has been agreed and supported by the Reconstruction of the State, because that is what they want, and the Supreme Audit Office itself has made a better statement about it. It'll be up to us as we proceed. The situation is that we have two similar proposals, one with more support for those involved. And that's about all I'm saying at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I now ask Mr Pavel Blažek, who is rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u6	Hello. Thank you for the word, or thank you for the sentence. The Committee has suspended the discussion of this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u7	Thank you. Now, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk for the Committee of Auditors. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At its 4th meeting on 27 February 2014, the honourable Members, the Supervisory Committee, examined the draft amendment in question, with the fact that an amendment was made to me at this meeting of the Supervisory Committee and the Supervisory Committee adopted it and, as amended by this amendment identified as 43/3 of this press, recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal which is under discussion today. I would still like to say on this amendment why it was created. The amendment was made in order to respond to the calls that called for potentially independent, impartial control to be the subject of any public funds or public property, and I dare say that the version of the inspection committee meets the most precisely. And, of course, such a constitutional change creates an option, but the extent to which we will be able to fulfil the possibilities given to us by the Constitution means, if we are talking about the quality and quantity of control that the Supreme Audit Office will potentially exercise, then, of course, it will be the subject of the Supreme Audit Office Act itself. I expect that the discussion will then, of course, also lead to this law. It would probably be right to comment on the two alternative bills in this place, so that you have a light decision which of the three proposals best meets the assumption that sufficient independent, impartial control of the management of all public funds or public property is guaranteed here. The original proposal submitted, the parliamentary initiative was too pucuistic. If you look at the way the Constitution is written, at first sight you will know that it is a legal standard rather than a constitutional standard, regardless of how more detailed the standard is, in its modification it excludes all that is not the subject of the regulation. Therefore such detailed provisions should not appear too much in the Constitution and should rather contain fundamental principles, ideas abstractly expressed and then implemented, fulfilled by individual laws, event. other legislation. Of course, what was also contradictory about the original proposal itself was the criterion of legality, which should have been the criterion for assessing the control applied to the municipalities. However, legality as such is already subject to control by the state administration at the level of the Ministry of the Interior, firstly, and secondly, the laws governing the management of self-government themselves impose obligations on municipalities and regions to proceed economically. This means that, of course, the Supreme Audit Office, if it were to assess the legality of compliance with the laws, would have to assess, materially, in the context of the audit work carried out, whether the compliance, the economy and the effectiveness are respected there. This means that this provision, which appears in the proposal, would, of course, be wiped out by practice, would not correspond to reality. And the amendment tabled in the Constitutional Legal Committee essentially preserves the current situation where it is not possible to effectively exercise control by the Supreme Audit Office where the State has assets, because only the exercise of shareholder rights and not the management of such companies as a whole is subject to control. And if anything is obvious from more than 20 years of the Supreme Audit Office's practice, it is precisely that it is unable to effectively control the management of the state's equity interests in these companies. I conclude that the amendment, which has been approved here in the control committee and which is marked by 43/3, has support, i.e. both the positive position of the government and the Supreme Audit Office itself, and I think that we should not remain indifferent to this. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u9	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Before I give the first word, because I don't have a written application, I'm still saying that there's a key to the coffee shop, and whoever left it there, have him pick it up so he doesn't miss it by any chance tonight. Now in the general debate, Mr Stanislav Polčák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u10	Thank you. Or the vehicle will be checked by the SAO. To what my fellow rapporteurs have said, I would like to thank them for not using their position as rapporteurs to be provoked by me in principle to answer those questions. But now, in the context of a general debate, I would expect, after all, in the general debate, that there will therefore be a debate on what I have mentioned here, and I think that is very important. Unfortunately, Minister Jourová is not here, but it is important that she, or respectively. someone for the club YES, she spoke for the club YES at the time, said how the guarantee will be carried out at the level of the municipalities, and she simply must be in the Constitution. At the constitutional level, there can be no such universal text. If we are talking about the fact that it is to contain the Constitution of Guarantee, because another article of the Constitution guarantees the right to self-government of municipalities. It is important that the text of the Constitution is internally indistinguishable. And what I'm trying to say is that the amendment I submitted wasn't my own fantasy. It is precisely the limitation of the Supreme Audit Office in relation to municipalities at constitutional level that the text passed through the Legislative Council of the Government, that is, the government's body, in the past period, and I remind you that it has gone through a very broad political consensus here that the constitutional amendment will be an enumerative, kauistic one. Almost everyone voted in favour of the constitutional text, I believe it was 165 Members and Members. That's not a small majority. [[16.20 hours]] Now we're flipping the whole thing over. I have nothing against it in principle, but I want to hear the guarantees that will sound from the mouth of the political party that controls the Senate. And no one here has ever said anything about the Senate's position. This was presented at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee and was already very negative about the tightened original amendment. And so I am curious to see how such an impenetrable constitutional amendment will pass in the Senate, which will allow it to be carried out at the legal level, so that cities and municipalities will be controlled without any restrictions. So now the rapporteurs are no longer limited by having to act as rapporteurs, and I believe that they will answer these questions too. And I am also glad that Minister Jourová has arrived and will therefore tell me how to resolve the promise given to ANO at that first reading that the constitutional amendment will deal with the position of the municipalities. So far, it appears from the ANO movements approved by the amendments that the opposite is exactly the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u11	I thank the first speaker in the debate, Mr Polčák. Mr Stupčuk still in the debate, and I am waiting for further applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u12	Thank you for the floor. Hello again. I do not think that municipalities and municipalities in general are potentially subject to control without restrictions. After all, the limitation will be given by law, which will then clearly determine what will be the legal limits of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office in relation to the inspection carried out by the entities concerned, i.e. municipalities and regions. And don't be mad at me, colleague, at this point, to talk about a senát that hasn't decided yet, and you already want the result. I think it's something we have to work on. I also said on the Audit Committee that I am prepared for this version, if it is approved by the Chamber of Deputies, to defend on the Senate grounds, aware of the commitment that at this time the Czech Party is the most socially democratic Senate club in the Senate. In this context, I would like to mention one more thing that this is not the Senate, which is primarily responsible for the state of public budgets and for the way in which it is managed with the property of the Czech Republic and the self-government and even with public budgets and public property, but that it is, above all, the Chamber of Deputies, which exercises control powers and which approves the state budget as the most important item in public budgets. So we should not be alibising this in terms of what happens when we approve this and what the Senate will do. I ask that we feel that this is especially about us right now, so that we try to approve the best legal standard that we are able to approve at the moment. And then it is the joint effort of the majority and the political representation that will participate in the approval of such constitutional change in the House of Deputies to conduct an intense dialogue with its fellow Members in the Senate. And that's what I'm prepared to do, and that's what I'm making a public commitment to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u13	Please, Mr Polčák is still reporting, and I see Mr Ludvík Hovorka's colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize for rejoining, but if this had not already happened to us here in the House, I would, of course, have made a statement that we would be working and further improving the quality of the rule of law so that the taxpayers' resources would be treated in a fair way, so I would have believed it all. But we've already passed this test once. And with all due respect, the last modification, which is identical to what I have put forward, and on the contrary contains another restriction for the benefit of municipalities and cities, failed in the Senate. The Senate's composition hasn't changed, the Senate's elections won't change until the fall. I do not understand the only rational argument you have made, Mr President, why the Senate should change its position. You're saying that the Senate will actually deny what he voted for two years ago, that he doesn't want to do, and that he will even approve you with a bianco check, that you will be able to submit and approve any law at the legal level. I have behaved correctly, I have submitted both the draft Constitution and the implementing law. The House, of course, returned the petitioner. You have submitted a whole amendment to the Constitution in the form of an amendment law, and you have not already submitted any texts that should be in the framework of the law. So even basically the House will be walking into the dark, or a white place, if you want, because we don't know what's going to be at the level of the law. I'm not that naive. When I entered the House, I was naive, and now I think I'm not that naive to think that the Senate is not aware that the only place where he is unvoted and where his voice can be heard is at the Amendment of the Constitution. So these guarantees that we're going to work together on something, we've already done that in the past period - and it was useless. I therefore want to hear the clear position of both Prime Minister Sobotka and, of course, other ČSSD representatives, particularly from the Senate, that if we approve such a tightening amendment to the Constitution in the sense that it allows any recipient of public funds to be actually controlled at legal level - that is, the logic of the last amendment adopted has been completely reversed - this will be approved in the Senate. This is a legitimate requirement in a situation where it has already been rejected once. Because if it's rejected again in the Senate, then the state that's been going on for three or four years will continue for how long? How long will this situation continue? I would very much like us not to get into such a blunder, and I therefore demand, of course, only with humility, that these guarantees fall here during the House's negotiations. It doesn't have to be today. This may be new to many colleagues in social democracy. But I believe that in the third reading we need to hear the Government's position, and also how Minister Jourová's approach is actually fulfilled, because at the constitutional level, i.e. those approved amendments, I note that it is not fulfilled at all and that there is no guarantee of the right to self-government of municipalities in the resolutions tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u15	So, now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Martin Komárek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that The Chamber of Deputies has the task of working to improve the rule of law and better orientation, as well as the public, in the laws that are adopted. In this respect, I really see the amendment adopted in the Supervisory Committee as a substantial improvement in the proposed legislation. And indeed, the concerns that have been raised here by the rapporteur, I do not feel this strongly. I think it is important that the institution that has proven itself - that is to say, the Supreme Audit Office, has shown a lot of good in its existence and activity in those checks in which it has revealed a lot of inefficiency. And I think it is a good thing that the amendment, which actually extends the competences quite clearly and which states that it will simply go through the control of the management of public funds and with the funds provided from public budgets and with the property of legal entities with the ownership of a state or a local authority, that this is clearly the right step. And I don't think it's going to overuse that authority. Rather, it is for the office that actually operates to be able to effectively carry out the check and further corrective measures or criminal notifications can then be taken on the basis of this check. But I don't think it has to be bad for the towns and villages. I think most of the authorities work very well with us. But unfortunately, there are examples, especially of the larger cities, where in a number of cases there is a lack of economics, and it is not only at the level of cities, but it is often in an organisation where cities have their own ownership. And I think that this proposed amendment, which has been adopted, is a step in the right direction, and I am not afraid of what has often been said both in the control committee, and in the representatives of the Union of Towns and Communities and in the form that it is bullying cities and municipalities. But I don't think it has to be bad for the towns and villages. [[16.30 hours]] I think most of the authorities work very well with us. But unfortunately, there are cases in particular of larger cities where in many cases there is a lack of economics, and it is not only at the level of cities, but it is often in organisations where cities have their own participation. I think that such an amendment, which has been adopted, is a step in the right direction, and I am not afraid of what has often been mentioned both in the Audit Committee and in the representatives of the Union of Towns and Communities, etc., that this is bullying of cities and municipalities. I believe that this is the setting of clear limits, and it is even an improvement in what has been done so far in the Constitution on this matter towards the Supreme Audit Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u17	I thank Mr Hovorka. Mr Martin Komárek now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize not only for the cough, but I did not understand my colleague Polčák's concerns very well, because I do not believe that the Senate is a puppet choir in one jersey and that the president of any party can give guarantees as the senators, albeit in his party's jersey, will vote. We'd be demoting the senát, wouldn't we? I also understand letters from villagers and towns who do not want to be controlled. Nobody wants to be controlled. Of course, this is the natural requirement of every person, because everyone says, "I'm doing it right, why should someone send me some kind of control?" But, as my colleague Hovorka said, I also think that the Supreme Audit Office has a good sound, unlike some other authorities and institutions of our country, and if someone is doing well with public funds, then why should control be feared. All she can do is tap his shoulder and say, "You've managed well." So I think the way the control committee changed it, changed it well, and there's no reason to worry about anything, build a false barrier, that it'll be a blunder when we vote something that's good, and then somebody will give it back to us. Let me get this straight. Yes, the Senate can return or not vote in this case, but that's the Constitution we have. After all, the Senate and the Senate can be wiped out. [[Laughs in the hall.]] But don't worry about something... The Senate and I can change the Constitution. It's not funny. Or can't we? We can. [[President: Please let us look at the subject.]] I'm done 'cause it always upsets me when someone laughs at me, because I'm a former humorist, but I don't want to be anymore. So I think Mr Polčák's concerns are unfounded and we should take the amendment of the Supervisory Committee as a good one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u19	I thank Mr Martin Komárek. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one checks in, I will apply for a replacement, and I will join the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u20	So please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Madames and gentlemen, let us consider what is constitutional change that concerns the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. From the point of view of the press, this is the opposite of what was the point of the original amendment, both of what was the purpose of the government's declaration by Petr Nečas, but of what is the purpose of the government's statement by the current government. Because the purpose of the documents I was talking about is to extend the authority of the Supreme Audit Office, because the prepared text is done as it has been said that it is too causal, it will lead to a narrow interpretation of the rule of law, which is very important in constitutional law, because the extended interpretation of the Constitution would essentially allow something that can be extra legume, extra constitution, or it may not yet be unconstitutional, but it would be outside the Constitution, and no one would want that. Therefore, the text itself, which we should discuss before we deal with the Supreme Audit Office Act, must be one that strengthens the position of an independent supervisory authority as the highest audit institution in the Czech Republic. That's the main point. What I miss in a fundamental way in the bill, especially for the reason for which we are talking about the Act on State Officials. The Constitution of the Czech Republic, although the Supreme Audit Office Act contains it, assumed that the President, Vice President and College would be in charge of the work of the Audit Office. But the College is only on the level of the law. And let us imagine that the Chamber of Deputies will get rid of its power to vote, i.e. to appoint members of the college, i.e. the collective body of the Supreme Audit Office. Why was the protection of the SAO just the collegiate? It's to make the office independent. If the power is focused on the President and the Vice-President and the College is a formal body, which will eventually be able to appoint e.g. The general director of state service, so we get to the fact that in a few moments our independence will disappear from our control office. None of us would like that, even though Mr Komárek here before us said that no one wants to be controlled. Yes, it is mostly a feeling, but in my opinion, the person who wants to manage something is setting up a supervisory body to alert himself to the fact that something is moving outside the scope of the management decisions in a timely manner. In this respect, it is therefore clear that in its amendment, the Supervisory Committee proposes something that allows for the future to extend control powers to those systems that have been least controlled and have also been affected by a relatively high level of corruption. And this proved here whether by the SAO's audit findings, which only touched marginally because it only concerned state budget control, i.e. the funds that were actually shifted within the state budget to cities and municipalities and regions, and these were the budget resources of the State, which the Supreme Audit Office could have taken control of in the past. But it's the system we're after. Or let's just say it's not about the system, and we're beating up this empty straw because we want to wipe someone's eyes out. I don't think that's what we're dealing with. In this respect, then, in my view, there is only a shift when we have not been able to approve the last standard, at least such that we can establish the possibility for the control to take place throughout the construction structure of the state, i.e. even in the self-government, because the self-government is not here to create, now forgive me, the independent city of České Budějovice, which will be independent of the Czech Republic, but České Budějovice are still a city, the regional city of the South Bohemia Region, in the Czech Republic. Likewise, individual regions have the right to self-government, but they are part of a national whole, such as the Czech Republic, nota bene and the whole, called the European Union. So, in this respect, I would like to say that the intervention of the Supreme Audit Office's state body is not an intervention in the exercise of self-government, because, of course, it checks whether the laws of this State are complied with, and that is the essence of the amendment that has fallen in the Chamber of Deputies' Supervisory Committee. I would like us to agree on this, or not to lie to each other here, because I think that's really not a good idea for constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u22	Another enrollment is Mr Polčák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u23	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. They didn't lie to one another, to each other. Well, to be honest, now I think it's important to put the facts on the table. By voting in the Chamber of Deputies in the last parliamentary term, this amendment was approved in relation to municipalities and cities - I quote - a constitutional amendment: The Supreme Audit Office is an independent body that controls the management of the property of local authorities and the revenue and expenditure of their budgets, in accordance with the law. This amendment to the Constitution, which is a case-law adopted, was supported by 24, as I am now convinced, by 24 fellow Members and Members of the Communist Party. And now we hear from the Vice-President that back then what they approved was probably wrong, or that they were wrong, and now they actually want to call the opposite. So please take a look at the 351 House press, for what reasons did you then approve the amendment to the Constitution, which included the exception in relation to municipalities and cities. I'm saying, however much I don't want to argue with what Vice-President Filip said here... Yes, I think it's really important to control. I think it's important to fill the password with trust, but check it out. But that must also apply to political decisions. If we trust today that the Senate, which is in this matter, I repeat, unvoteable, will approve something that has already been rejected and which has been less in favour of municipalities and cities, I really do not understand why we should do so. I also see a shift on the opinion side in Communist Members. Okay, it's possible. But then you will have to say - and all those who are sitting here, whether they are mayors or former mayors, or your colleagues who run cities and communities, that you have approved the amendment to the Constitution, which includes full control. And the committee's proposal goes so far as not only to be controlled by the municipality and the city, which is the recipient of public funds, but even by any natural person who receives a subsidy from the municipality and the city, so that the choir of volunteer firefighters, footballers and others will be controlled. These are real estate. Let's not say things about not lying or lying. Mr Komárek did not comment at all on what I was talking about here, i.e. that Mrs Jourová's mouth has given rise to a guarantee, which is not yet fulfilled, which may still be born at second reading, in about the next ten seconds some amendment, I don't know. But it doesn't look like it yet. I also want to hear from my fellow Members who are Members sitting here in the Chamber if they support such a text. Because I have been criticised for submitting the same draft Constitution that has been approved here, and I have submitted a law that has responded to the complaints of the Senate. Now somebody wants to tell me that this constitutional text without any text of the accompanying law, which completely extends the powers of the Supreme Audit Office without any guarantees against the right to self-government of municipalities and cities guaranteed in the Constitution that this text will be approved by the Senate? Okay, let's make it that way, but please, in a year, we'll tell each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u24	Thank you. I have also signed up with Mr Zlatuška's factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u25	Madam President, I would just like to draw the attention of my colleague Polčák to the mistake he made in his complaint. This extension is not to the detriment of municipalities and controlled entities, but, of course, to their benefit. It is their interest to deal with the funds more economically, factually. And if control is brought up to be economical even in the future, it is the municipalities that will benefit most from it, because they will not lose money by economics, not by municipalities themselves, because they cannot do it, but by their irresponsible workers. So it's just fixing the formulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I also have Mr Polčák's enrollment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u27	Thank you. I've decided I'm not gonna take this stuff, and that's why I'm gonna bother you with my last, I hope, comment on the address of my colleague Zlatuška. So you can tell me if you're a yes club, that is. For the entire club YES, Mrs Jourová spoke, so what guarantees did she have in mind if she spoke about not touching their constitutional right? I would very much like to hear about the guarantees that you, as colleagues, have discussed and are to be implemented in this constitutional text. Because I assume that if the Constitution provides for the right to self-government, then the constitutional text should determine these guarantees. Respectfully, how you will not touch this right to self-government. Thank you. It's a rhetorical question, there's no need to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u28	Thank you. And since I have no one else registered, I am ending the general debate and starting a detailed debate. I do not have anyone registered for a detailed debate, which is why I am ending the detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. It's not like that. Therefore, I conclude the second reading of this proposal. Before we proceed to the debate on paragraph 10, I must say that there has been a change in the House, or rather, we have not taken into account the official apology of the Minister of Finance for the absence from today's meeting. Therefore, we should vote on the transfer of item number 14 to tomorrow, if necessary. So we have two votes to make. The first is the vote on the adjustment of the programme and then, if this proposal passes, we would vote on the inclusion of the item tomorrow after the fixed points. So I'm asking everyone in the conference room. [[Members return from the foyer. After a brief pause, the President continues.]] So now I propose to vote on a change in the programme pursuant to § 54 para. 8, i.e. Relocation of item number 14 to tomorrow's meeting. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. [[From the plenary: The voting device is not possible.]] I'm sorry. I'm going to sign everyone off and ask you to sign up again. Initiating vote to remove the item from today's program... It's about adjusting the agenda. [[The noise in the hall. After a brief pause, the President continues again.]] I will repeat once again the reason why we are adjusting the agenda. The reason for this is the excused absence of the Minister of Finance. [[This is MP Sklenák.]] Favorite or factual? Favorite law. Mr. Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u29	Thank you for the floor. Just so we don't get out of line with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, it is possible to reschedule, but we should decide on this by two votes. First, we vote on allowing the vote on reassignment and then on the transfer itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u30	That's where we agree. That's what I said. [[Cheer up in the left side of the hall.]] Please, let us vote on the transfer of the point. [[Dissenting voices from the left.]] I will stick exactly to the Rules of Procedure. Whoever's in your hand, take it. This is Article 54 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 8 when the House may move the agenda items without debate during the meeting. I am voting that the will to move this point is because here is the condition that the Minister of Finance is duly excused from today's meeting. I propose that we vote on changing the agenda in the agenda during the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u31	The Vice-President, the procedure referred to by President Sklenák, is, of course, in line with the Rules of Procedure when the motion is made. At this point, no proposal to amend the agenda has been made, as far as I know. We haven't reached point 14. There is no way that the petitioner would be represented and present. If we are to vote on something, it should be a concrete proposal from a particular Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u32	I'm interrupting the meeting for five minutes. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 16.52 hours until 16.58 hours.]] I ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can continue the negotiations. I have Mrs Černochová, before that Mr Pilný, Mrs Váhalová and Mrs Bohdalová. Excuse me, Mr. Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Madam President, on account of the duly announced apology of the petitioner, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, I propose to translate paragraph 14, House press 179, tomorrow after the fixed points, to the morning after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u34	[[After a brief meeting with the organizational department.]] Okay. At this point, because this is a proposal without a debate, which we will vote on without a debate, I am voting on the proposal whether this is a particular reason for us to take the item out of today's negotiations and reschedule it. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I conclude the vote that this proposal has been rejected, so we will continue to discuss it. (According to the board of votes number 26, 156 Members voted in favour, 72 against 29.) [[There's restlessness in the room, laughter.]] We will now proceed to the discussion of item 10. I ask Mrs Černochová if she wants to comment on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u35	Madam Vice-President, you have committed a completely anarchist state in this House. And for this reason - and neither is the Minister of Finance, who was supposed to present points to the Chamber of Deputies today, because of him, we are wasting half an hour arguing whether or not he will be here - I am asking for a 19-hour break from the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-011-008.u36	Okay, I'm interrupting the meeting in 19 o'clock on request... Until tomorrow... [[Laughing and applause in the part of the hall.]] I'm interrupting today's meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning at the request of the ODS Club.
