ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws /German press 291/ - third reading At the rapporteur's table, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka remained and I ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Václav Votava, to take the position at the rapporteur's table as well. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 291/3. I am opening the debate at the third reading to which I have Mrs Radka Maxová, but with a factual remark before her, Mr Pavel Plzák. A point of fact, then only a priority right, Mr President Mr Plzák, with a factual comment on this press. [[Fiala.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, perhaps my factual comment will be similar to the later contribution made by Mrs Maxová. This is, in fact, Amendment A3 concerning the introduction of two foods to a reduced rate of 10%. Why do I want to make a little comment? In its programming statement, the government promised a commendable thing to introduce a 10% rate on pharmaceuticals. In this case, something that is not a medicine is introduced to the reduced rate. It's food, even if it's specific. It is specific that it does not contain certain substances that some people hate. In this case, they are people with phenylketonuria disease and celiac sprue. I just want to point out that Pandořin's locker doesn't open, that there are people who are sick with a whole range of food allergies. It could be an intolerance to nuts, lactose, so it just doesn't happen in the future, that we'll be approached by producers who say they made chocolate for people with nuts allergies, and it'll be normal chocolate without nuts. I'll say it's an extensive interpretation so we don't get people wanting to put soy milk on a reduced rate because it's for people who, for example, hate lactose. And so on. So I just wanted to say, in this case, we're not going beyond what the government was planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u3	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Petr Fiala, now with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will once again touch on the substance of this amendment, which introduces a seeming trifle, but a small thing that will have an impact on small businessmen in particular, and that will have a quite fundamental impact. When we look at what happens when we adopt this government-designed amendment, we find that, first, it will have an impact on about a quarter of a million entrepreneurs who are VAT payers. Secondly, even according to the material submitted by the government, these entrepreneurs will pay 1.37 billion annually. Crowns. Third, every month each one of them takes this little thing three and a half hours of their time. Fourthly, during this parliamentary term, we are introducing at least the sixth and certainly not the last amendment to tax laws. And fifth, of course, it's a preparatory step towards introducing registration cash registers, no matter what we think. And I'm asking you on behalf of the Civil Democrats - why? Why a government that has enough money to increase the ministry's operating expenditure by 10 billion next year. CZK, transferring responsibility to honest entrepreneurs, asking them to pay the costs of proving that they are not stealing? Why, if this state wants to control someone, do they have to pay with their money and with their time citizens who are trying to work honestly? Why should we force honest, decent entrepreneurs to report to the tax office every month how much they have earned? Why isn't a quarterly report, a quarterly notification obligation, as has been the case so far? And notice the name itself: a check report. What's he evoking? Well, constant surveillance, surveillance, records, reporting. And who's gonna check these monthly reports? How do we evaluate them? What's that gonna mean? Do we need new officials for that? Of course I do. Maybe, ladies and gentlemen, you haven't listened to me well, or do you think, when I tried to define myself against this here on Tuesday, or do you think it's the voice of an opposition politician who wants to criticize, so if that's what you think, I'd quote to those of you who are still thinking about these things, here two of the reactions that businessmen have written on the iDNES server on this proposal. [[9.50 hours]] One electrician - I quote: "How will it help the tax office that every month I will send them reports of three invoices issued for about 100,000? Even if I was trying to get some tax evasion, which I can't, because I'm working for companies and state institutions, and it doesn't work without documents, how much would I escape? A hundred? Two? Really fucked up. Perhaps the Social Democrats could finally understand that there is no way to promote prosperity." And another quote - this time not an electrician, but a service technician in IT: "I can calmly say that I have three legal competitors in a town of 60 thousand. The rest began to mess around without a trade certificate. After full enforcement of registration cash registers and further increase in bureaucratic burden, I expect to move further competition into full illegality. And that's what I'm in the business of doing my best with all the electronization and the gayness. What is a plumber, a car repairman, a plumber, or anyone else supposed to do? In order not to remain completely calm, it all leads to one thing: some commonly provided services will eventually be so expensive that they will be able to afford them in the legal form of the top ten thousand." I am not saying that all of these are things that necessarily have to happen, but this is the prevailing view of entrepreneurs on this measure. I quote honest entrepreneurs who normally try to work, pay taxes, and we prepare one complication after another with completely nonsensical measures. The reason, of course, is clear. This government doesn't care about active people and small businessmen. This government is a government of large corporations, and the impact of the law is measured by how a large company is able to cope with them. And in this case, you've found that a big firm has no problem editing accounting software, sending electronically reports every week, or releasing several reporting personnel for the benefit of the state. Well, I guess no one's gonna have a problem with that. But you're forgetting the very small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are very busy with every such measure, preventing them from doing business and making life difficult for them. But that obviously doesn't bother this leftist government. First, you cut off their flats, now you're adding administration to them, you're setting up registers for them in the future. And what's behind it? Simply put, you don't trust them, you don't support them in their activities. All you want is their money so you can increase state bureaucracy. Citizen Democrats certainly do not agree with the measures that are going in this direction. We agree with all measures that ensure better tax collection and tax defaults, but not by burdening and making life difficult for honest entrepreneurs. Normal, decent, active people are not allowed to pay for the state's inability to collect taxes. And by the way, this is another piece of evidence that I have repeatedly said here that the government has no well-thought-out concept of the tax system, and in this case it has only one clear objective, and that is the introduction of registration cash registers. But otherwise, he does one change of tax laws after another, this is at least the sixth, without being clear where this change leads, what this change is supposed to lead to. But if we are not sure, and this is my advice again, the advice of a young politician, but a long-term manager, if we are not sure that the change we are preparing is leading to the correction of the problem, let us not do it, because the only result will be that things will just change to worse. This is also an example of this measure, which will only complicate life for people, entrepreneurs, and no better tax collection will ensure that. As I said before, civil democrats will not support this amendment with their vote. We believe in the opposite principle than this left-wing government. We believe in free space without state control. We believe in low taxes, small bureaucracy, and this goes in exactly the opposite direction. However, to remind you of the constructive attitude of the civil democrats, which we have taken not only to this law, but also to this law, to this amendment, I draw your attention again to the two amendments that I tabled on behalf of the Civil Democratic Party, which are a compromise solution, which, on the one hand, remove from this obligation a group of entrepreneurs with a turnover of less than CZK million a month, and thus protect small entrepreneurs from this utterly unnecessary bureaucracy. The second compromise solution is that we would get rid of the unfortunate third VAT rate, but we only had one lower rate of 10%, which is something our country can undoubtedly afford in the current economic situation. I ask you to reconsider my two amendments tabled, because they would improve the bad amendment that you tabled here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u5	Thank you. One more priority right for the chairman of the TOP 09 club, Miroslav Kalousek, who was ahead of Mrs Maxová. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u6	Thank you. I promise to be considerably more brief, but I would like to supplement my previous speaker after all. If it were really, as President Fiala said, that all you want from this measure is taxpayers' money to spend it, it would be unacceptable from a political point of view, but still understandable. I'm sure you couldn't say it's immoral. But it's not like that. Because you know as the submitters that this measure simply doesn't bring any greater efficiency in tax collection. This is nothing more than an eye wiper and some sort of media-visible action that will pretend to increase the efficiency of tax collection, and the opposite will be true, as with the vast majority of your numbers in public budgets, where your interpretation completely breaks with the reality that you are presenting. But it's obvious. And you can say, "We're fighting tax evasion." We've got Kobra. In every speech we talk about fighting carousel shops. And part of the public really believes that the efficiency of tax collection is increasing. This is the effect of this political act. The truth is, however, when we look at the figures that it is the other way around, that the efficiency of tax collection at least for VAT is decreasing. It's gonna be on this case anyway. Here you will burden thousands of people with completely unnecessary reports, which instead of once a quarter could take place once a month, nothing will, of course, solve anything. I think we made this very clear in the second reading debate. Only the white horses will know that they have a quarter to do it, that they have a month to do it, and in that month they will be able to do it completely reliably, so the honest will pay for it, for the dishonest it will mean no extra problem, but you will be able to solemnly declare that you are fighting tax evasion because thousands of entrepreneurs will have three and a half hours to work extra. But you won't have one more crown. And we're going to say it in a year, we're going to say it in two years, just as sales are going to grow, or we're going to decrease VAT collection, that in addition to the fact that you've burdened the rule of law and burdened the business situation, you unfortunately haven't earned anything by these measures. It is the only way - the patient ant work - to increase the efficiency of financial administration, and here I want to thank social democracy for unanimously approving the transformation from three-stage to two-stage during the last parliamentary term, and that the model actually allows for a much more efficient method today, but it does not go from Tuesday to Wednesday. It is patient ant work, the gradual trend is the only objective of increasing the efficiency of tax collection, but it means a lot of work and it is very bad to sell. [[10.00 hours]] That's much better to visibly put a register on someone's desk, visibly send a team somewhere that's worked here for years in a way, but now we've started calling him kobra. It looks really nice. It doesn't bring anything. It's just a higher burden on the business. Okay, then you can have it, but you can't do it without us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u7	The words of Mrs Radka Maxová will now be taken. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to introduce my colleagues to the principle of my amendment under letter C to this House press, because there is a lot of debate about it, we have different opinions here, and we may need to clarify this a little bit. Those of you who don't move in health care or chemistry, you don't know what phenylketonuria is. It's a congenital metabolism disorder. The liver is not formed or formed in a minimal amount of enzyme that breaks down the amino acid phenylalanine that the patient accepts in a normal diet, but it is not processed in the blood, accumulates and can cause severe central nervous system disorders and relatively rapid mental impairment and dementia. Fortunately, our Republic is already diagnosed with this disease and we know that from birth these young children are to be subjected to a combination of gluten-free, non-lactose and low-protein diets with a specific tolerance for the permitted intake of phenylalanine. From the point of view of the parent and patient, phenylketonuria is a lifelong nightmare. In real life, children and adults can only eat oil, sugar, water, vinegar and salt without limit. Everything else contains proteins and must be weighed and counted accurately. These children and adults will never taste most of the food and food in their lives. Diet consists of precisely fixed hard and completely uncompromising to grams of weighted low-billing food eaten at strict intervals, drinking mostly acid amino acid preparations, regular dry blood drops and adjusting diet nurse levels. The principle of compliance with diet in phenylketonuria is very strict and demanding to prepare, time and finance. Diet is for life, and if the sick do not hold it, they would expect a severe impact in the form of mental retardation and institutional treatment. Moreover, it should be stressed that this also has a social aspect, because there is always one parent who has to stay at home, because the preparation of food for children who attend school is really extremely important and difficult. This food group for special medical purposes, which is included in my proposal, is very easy and precise to identify because it is legislatively defined in Part 5 of Decree No. 54/2004 Coll., on foods intended for particular nutritional uses and the way they are used, as amended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u9	I'll ask the House for peace. I have more enrolled in the debate at third reading, at least President Okamura and colleague Hovorka -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u10	In addition, they are also subject to notification for the State Agricultural and Food Inspection. They are essentially used as medicinal products for patients with a variety of diseases. These are mainly congenital disorders of metabolism, severe food allergies and severe malnutrition associated with the disease. In all these cases, foods for special medical purposes are not available for the provision of comprehensive health care, possibly in combination with other special foods, e.g. foods without phenylalanine, the only way of treating these patients, and they cannot be replaced by medicinal products. [[with emphasis]] It should also be pointed out that these foods were part of the medicines until 2004. Based on the directive of the European Commission, when we were forced to create this category, they were included in the Public Health Insurance Act and are covered by public funds. They're medicinal products that don't have drug status, but they're used as medications. Foods with therapeutic effect can be considered to be used only under the supervision of a doctor under the applicable legislation. These foods with therapeutic effect are diet foods for special medical purposes and food without phenylalanine. They are covered by health insurance funds, both in the outpatient sector and in health establishments, where they are paid from the same sources as medicines. These foods for special medical purposes have the same principles of regulation as medicinal products - regulation of maximum price and regulation of payment from public health insurance, are coded by the State Institute for Drug Control and, as well as medicinal products, i.e. medicines, are indicated with clear therapeutic purpose on the basis of indication criteria. Foods without phenylalanine are basically specially produced foods intended for nutrition in congenital metabolic diseases, deprived of natural proteins and phenylalanine, the dosage method and the permitted daily amount determined individually by a specialised physician for each patient, and these foods represent, in addition to fruit and vegetables, basically the only source of nutrition in which their health status does not deteriorate. By reducing VAT on these foods for special medical effects, public health insurance costs shall be reduced if they are prescribed for a prescription or if they are saved by hospital expenditures which buy and finance these foods for special medical effects from the hospital budget. Evidence that foods for special medical purposes are similar to medicines is a restriction on their labelling: to be used on the advice of a doctor or a nutrition professional. What is important to stress is that the price of the manufacturer of these foods for medical purposes is regulated by the State as well as the margin. Amendment from the Committee on Budgets, which places raw materials - raw materials in the second reduced rate of VAT! - for the production of gluten-free foods, does not solve the situation of these people, respectively. solves only very partially, and patients and their families feel discriminated against patients with intolerance to gluten or other patients using medicines. On the other hand, it is important to note that, thanks to new lifestyle trends, gluten-free products become a lifestyle and also a marketing hit for healthy citizens. Examples are marketing campaigns Gwyneth Paltrow or Djokovič tennis Djokovič, which promote this style. In the market, food for special medical purposes has a total volume of about 500 million. In reducing the current rate from 15 to 10 per cent of VAT, the loss on the revenue side of the state budget would be approximately 25 million. However, given the health and social importance of such a measure, that failure could be considered to be completely negligible. On the other hand, the conversion of food for special therapeutic effects to a 10% VAT rate would contribute, together with the expected reduction in the retail price of food for special therapeutic effects for consumers, to higher sales of these products with a corresponding higher VAT collection, which would quickly compensate the above loss on the revenue side of the state budget. On the other hand, the cost of veterinary medicine is 2 to 3 billion. Crowns. And we must realise that, in the House press 251, which was submitted in the past period or a moment before this House press, we legislators have agreed that veterinary products will have a reduced VAT rate of 10 per cent. The estimated sale of gluten-free food is 700 miles. CZK and is expected to increase because the number of healthy people who prefer gluten-free diets is increasing voluntarily. However, what I find alarming is that we are legally reducing VAT to the replacement infant formula of healthy children, but we are not reducing the financial burden on families who are allergic to cow's milk proteins or lactose without which no health can be expected and can be damaged. [[with emphasis]] These preparations are already special foods from the category of foods for special therapeutic effects which the government amendment to the VAT Act did not think about. At the same time, this includes clinical nutrition, which mainly affects seniors and people seriously ill. It is a diet that is provided to people by a probe into the stomach because they cannot swallow or receive a classic human diet. The inclusion of foods for special medical purposes in the second reduced rate of VAT is in line with the intention of the coalition, in contrast to the previously classified and approved veterinary medicinal products that we have approved in the House of Press 251, due to the fundamental similarity with medicinal products and irreplaceable infant food for sick children. That's probably all I wanted to say. I really ask you to consider supporting the amendment that is affecting families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Maxová. I have a factual remark from the rapporteur who takes precedence. Then I have a priority application from Mr Okamura, then a priority application from the Chairman of the TOP 09 club Miroslav Kalousek, then a proper application from Mr Ludvík Hovorka. He has the floor with the rapporteur's factual remark. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to respond briefly to Mrs Maxová. I consulted with Deputy Secretary Hornochová on this matter. I believe that, in substance, it is okay, but it must be quite clear what food is involved. It must be clear how they will be placed on the tariff, because this depends on the determination of the rate. If this is not, and unfortunately this amendment is not written in this way, it cannot really be approved. There is something that cannot be approved where it is not clearly identified and what food it is, so that there is no doubt, of course, food that ultimately has nothing to do with it. Then, of course, it would have a huge impact on the state budget. We agreed that you would try to amend the amendment in such a way as to make it clear, and at the nearest amendment to value added tax, it is possible to discuss it, if necessary to submit an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Before Mrs Maxová's point of fact, I would like to make an apology. From 10 to 10.30 p.m. Mr. Fiedler, from 13:00 p.m. Mrs. Zuzana Šánová and canceling one apology for Mrs. Ivana Dobešová, who is here. Mrs Maxová has the floor on a point of fact. My colleague, you have a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u14	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I was also trying to contact Mrs. Hornochová. Unfortunately, this did not happen for time reasons. I would like to say that the food is also specified on the tariff. The scaler is, of course, very broad, but it must be said that in the amendment the sentence is that this amendment is outside of goods which are not food for special medical purposes! So the groceries are specified there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u15	Thank you. Mr. Tomio Okamura's priority right now. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give the opinion of the Dawn movement on this law. Of course, we are also fighting tax evasion, and we agree with that, of course. However, we see one fundamental problem in this bill, and these are so-called control reports. We see the problem specifically in the control reports for small businessmen. According to analyses based on this government proposal, the bureaucratic burden for small businessmen, or for businessmen as such, will be increased by three and a half hours a month. That means imagine a man who doesn't have an employee, and now the government's giving him three and a half hours a month to fill out more and more and more papers. The government's explanatory report shows, so it's not an invention of Dawn or Okamura that the costs of the tradesmen due to these inspection reports will increase by 1.4 billion. Crowns. The government is assuming we have 250 miles. VAT payers, and it is the government itself that the average time to fill out the inspection report is three and a half hours. But let's focus on small businessmen. Once again, I say, the fight against tax evasion has, but if the government does not present any pro-growth measures in parallel with this as well as any growth measures for the growth of the economy, if it does not finally introduce the concept of creating new jobs, for which we have been waiting in vain for a year, and I already called for it six months ago, we are essentially in a situation where the government only increases bureaucracy, only increases tax burdens, only makes it harder for citizens, but basically does not say B, how it would make it easier for them, for example, by creating new jobs or proposing really some growth measures. In this context, I remind you that the Czech Republic has historically record unemployment. And unemployment is more than 600,000 unemployed, it's about 8 percent. The government's been with the government for a year, and by this time next year, it's going to be two years, and you won't be able to make excuses for someone screwing up, and unemployment will, as I see it, be very similar. This means that there will be more than half a million unemployed, and I would be very surprised if that were not the case, because when I see the steps of this government, that means that there is no concept here or to create new jobs, people still have no work, growth measures we do not see any, nor even any plan. We see here the draft budgetary perspective by 2017 - still huge deficits. So, from this point of view, I wanted to say that the Úsvit movement really cannot support a proposal by which small businessmen who do not employ anyone, but who are VAT payers at a time when 8% of unemployment is more than 600,000, we will put on their shoulders another obligation to fill out some more statements for hours, and we are actually making it difficult for them to be employed at all. So instead of creating the conditions for people to self-employ, when it is completely clueless to create new jobs and motivate people to, for example, as small small businessmen themselves, and you probably know that many of these small businessmen, I used to be one of them when I didn't have one employee and I had to work for years as a tourist guide from morning to night, including the weekend, so that they are often seniors, older people after 50 - I'm sorry, not only seniors, but they are very often older people after 50 who lost their jobs and small business making extra money, and they don't have any other income, they don't even have employees. I hear you're like that. Yes, well, Madame of YES. [[to the Messenger of Shane]] I just want to say that you're actually making it harder for these people, and you're very bureaucratic. This means that the fight against tax evasion clearly does, but again I stress that it must also be accompanied by pro-growth steps and steps to create new jobs and they are not here. Therefore, if I sum it up, if there is no amendment, which is on the table here, so that the control report is from the turnover of 1 million. CZK more a month, which means that it concerns not the smallest small businessmen, but only the slightly larger ones, just not the smallest ones at the time of this huge unemployment, so unfortunately the Úsvit movement cannot support this law, because in this situation we really refuse to bureaucratize and make it difficult for the smallest small businessmen at the time of this huge unemployment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u17	Thank you. Now, Mr Jiří Štětina's factual comment and then the speech by the President of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u18	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will be very brief, as is customary for me. I have listened very carefully to Mrs Maxová's justification for the amendment, through the Vice-President, and I must say that I fully agree with this because the foods used as special medicines must be cheaper. I was really surprised at how she justified this professionally. I can only say that we have known about phenylketonuria for at least 45 years, but we now know what its mechanism is. And the real problem isn't how to identify these foods for special medical purposes, it's simple. So I really believe that this amendment should be adopted. I will actually vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u19	I thank Mr Štětin for his time on the point of fact. Now with priority right before colleague Hovorka once again chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maxová's well-founded reasoning has raised questions in a number of of of us, and some of us have also swayed our position, so before the final vote, I will ask for a 40-minute recess for a meeting of the MP's club so that we can compare what has fallen here with the tariff and finally decide how to vote. I dare ask the lady, I saw that she had it prepared in writing, if she could lend it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u21	After the end of the debate. Mr. Chairman of the club, after the end of the debate? [[Yes.]] Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, still in the debate at third reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u22	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would briefly comment on Mrs Maxová's amendment. She really put the medical justification right here. The problem is what my colleague here has already said to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets that it is not possible to simply specify foods for special medical purposes. For the purposes of value added tax, it is necessary to specify precisely what specific foods are concerned. For you and Mrs Maxová alone, I would like to say that I have dealt with this problem for a long time, namely celiacs and phenylketonuria, and the result is Amendment A3 which you have and which has been through the Committee on Budgets. This amendment has been consulted for more than a month with the Department of the Ministry of Finance, with Deputy Secretary Hornochová and with the Director of the Department of Direct Taxation, as well as with doctors - one specialist in celiaciacs and one specialist in phenylketonuria. The result is the inclusion of only some raw materials used for the production of food for celiacs and phenylketonurics. The problem is that the tariff is actually very wide and it is necessary to specify precisely what food it is, so that there is no problem in determining VAT. I also received Mrs Maxová's amendment from the President of the Committee on Budgets last Friday. I tried to communicate this over the weekend with Principal Hala, but he told me it was so short a time that it couldn't be done. I really think that if it were to be qualified to determine which food could be there and which could not be, it would require a job that would last at least 14 days or a month. I therefore intercede that this second amendment should indeed be the subject of negotiations on another, for example, amendment to value added tax. Just for the reasons I said here, not for other reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u23	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. With priority right of the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura, then... Sorry, Mr. Chairman. I have two factual points here: Pavel Plzák and Mrs Radka Maxová. I would first prefer factual remarks under the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u24	Thank you. I apologize to my colleague Stanjur. I'll be very brief. That's exactly what Mr. Hovorka said, what I'm afraid of. The manufacturers of artificial sweeteners will come and say: Yes, it is basically a thing that is needed for diabetics, and we would like artificial sweeteners to be placed at a lower rate. That's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u25	Thank you. Now, Mrs Radka Maxová, also on the point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u26	I would just like to clarify, once again, that foods for special medical or medical purposes are specified in the decree, and the amendment there, of course, states that they can only be food declared on their packaging as being for special medical purposes, plus, of course, it is supervised by the State Agricultural and Food Inspection. It's not just anything! The special control mechanism for this is also prepared for the State Agricultural Inspection. I find it absolutely trivial that we have agreed 10% VAT on veterinary products, and now we're talking about not wanting to help our families who have sick children, like a substitute diet that is allergic to cow proteins and lactose -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u27	Really, I'd ask for peace. [[Messenger. Max is trying to talk.]] Please, madam, wait a little longer. If anyone has a debate about something other than value added tax... If you want me to name individual groups, I will appoint individual Members. And please, calm down! We are not discussing anything that is not serious, it is a very serious point and you can see that this is also a request for a break in the parliamentary club, and I would therefore like the House, if it has other debates, individuals other than this law, to transfer them into the foyer. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u28	Consider the market turnover of veterinary products - two to three billion. Consider the turnover of these foods for special medical purposes - 500 million. I mean, it's just the sum talking about what's gonna be the bigger hit. Really, I beg you, weigh, discuss. I am glad that TOP 09 is taking a break on this subject, and I will be glad if we continue to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u29	Thank you. One more factual comment by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Hopefully we'll run out of cereal for phenylketonurics. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, just a little while. I do not question Mrs Maxová's good efforts at all, but I have sent her the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. In fact, it is necessary to specify precisely which products are concerned. It can't be that general that they're products that are for special medical purposes. It must be specified precisely which specific product is to be included in the specific 10% VAT rate, because otherwise, of course, this creates uncertainty on the part of the Ministry of Finance, Financial Authorities and in the tax collection. For this reason - other reasons do not lead to this amendment actually going through a proper discussion with experts at the Ministry of Finance. Another reason why this amendment should not be discussed is that it is not actually properly discussed and it is not specified which specific products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u31	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is the last member to be entered in the debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u32	Thank you for the floor. I firmly hope that I will not be the last to sign up because I have specific questions either for the Prime Minister or for the rapporteur who is concerned with this law. And I would like to address two headings - on the one hand, the inspection reports and then the debate that mostly government Members are having here, and now I do not mean this in any critical way, Mrs Maxová, Mr Plzák, Mr Hovorka. So first, check reports. One of the problems is that the law doesn't say what control reports will look like. And I'm wondering if the government and the Treasury have any idea what this inspection report is going to look like. Why did we encourage the idea of the Chamber of Commerce to do so in the law? Because we all - and I think almost everyone - say that stability is needed for the business environment. At a time when the shape of a check report we disagree with, but if you have it in the law, it's much more stable than when the Ministry of Finance has the authority to change it. Then it may also happen that twice a year the format of the inspection report will be changed because something will be added. In the press, I read the considerations and descriptions of what is happening in Slovakia. Each invoice - VAT, name of customer, amount, taxable supply, without tax, with tax etc. And I wonder if the government has any idea, and I think it has what the control report should look like. I think it would be good if the government declared that it would not change too often, for example by 30 at the latest. 6. each year will determine what it will look like for the following year, because this is definitely a risk. [[10.30 hours]] And now I would like to debate, and I believe I will get an answer, about our amendment. We propose that the monthly obligation is not for small companies, tradesmen who have a turnover of up to 12 miles. per year. Do we really think these are the companies that do carousel fraud and carousel deals? If so, I would like to hear some examples of businessmen who do carousel scams. I think it's useless. We would understand if the government were to impose this obligation on specific items. Especially in commodities that are subject to excise duty, because we can probably agree on that, there are carousel trades and frauds there and bring about the greatest losses for the state budget. But we, from a specific targeted measure for those companies where they are at risk, are not all of them to say that they are all of them, so the government is introducing a global measure. I'm kind of wondering what the financial administration is gonna do. The financial administration, to imagine, gets 370,000 checks a month. Each of them will have a duty on normal tax documents, not on simplified ones, to list all tax documents. I'm wondering if the Treasury or the government have at least tried to estimate how many tax documents there are. For the companies we're talking about, for the small ones, you already have a turnover of a million a month, so we can estimate the number of tax documents at the entrance, at the exit somewhere around 200, maybe 250, depending on the activity. If anyone has cheaper products, there could be more of those invoices. So hundreds at the smallest. The biggest ones are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands. Imagine the payment of a household that someone and a business company issue tax documents. [[unintelligible]] What's he gonna do about it besides hoarding the data? I'm asking how the data will be secured to avoid leaking very sensitive information that is very appropriate in a competitive struggle. If one day you learn how your competitor, what invoices he puts out to a business partner you are interested in, then you have the opportunity to give an improved offer and use this information in a competitive struggle. I'm just afraid the state isn't the one who's capable of protecting that amount of data. And he's not saying that, I don't think intentionally, but unintentionally, it's just very complicated. That's one circle of questions. And the last is, the government says and praises itself very often, and maybe it works better, I have no reason not to trust them how social dialogue works, not only with trade unions, but also employers, etc. Here, in my opinion, was a reasonable proposal from the Chamber of Commerce, which, without a doubt, is conducting dialogue with the Government, and it has been rejected. It was loaded during the meeting of the Budget Committee, with the Ministry of Finance having the opportunity to comment on the proposal, and the Ministry of Finance rejected it as a whole, and I ask why. That's about three questions about the first circuit and now the second circuit. In undoubtedly interesting, and I would say, a technical debate on the second reduced rate, when we discussed it for the first time, we citizens' democrats pointed out from this place the risk that would arise if we accepted the second reduced rate, in that many producers and producers would bear the arguments, and often relevant and true, why their product should not be at the first reduced rate, but should be at the second reduced rate. And this debate, whether it's food or product, clearly proves that we were right. The question is for the Prime Minister or the rapporteur. The government came when we were discussing the last VAT amendment, with three items at the second reduced rate. During the hearing of this law, there was a fourth one, if I remember correctly, and at this point, we have two more proposed. The debate really is not simple because health reasons are relevant, but we have a solution. I think that Mr Plzák has drawn attention to the problem that exists in reality. It may have gone a little crazy with the fact that it's chocolate or something, but the problem exists, and I'm sure if we continue like this, every time we open VAT, there will be new and new proposals to convert from the first reduced rate to the second reduced rate. If we were to decide the dispute that is going on here today among government MPs, we brought the solution in Amendment D1 and D2. If we do one reduced rate of 10 per cent, the target will be fulfilled that VAT is not 15, but 10, and we do not have to have a debate that is better and which brings greater or less risks. It is a system solution, it will help everyone, we will not be exposed to our Members and Members of pressure, and I say to the legitimate producers that their product belongs to the second reduced. It is a better recipe and we can resolve it today if we support Amendments D1 and D2. To that second circle, just how much will be after today - because, without a doubt, the position of the Ministry of Finance on the amendments - is how many items will be and how the government estimates how additional items and when and in what amount will be added to the second reduced rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u33	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u34	Just to complete the debate. Focusing on certain commodities wouldn't help at all. In our country, fraudsters measured themselves mainly on fuel for a number of reasons, however, because this is troubling the whole of Europe, there are well-known examples of how the Austrian state budget was tunneled through sunglasses and the Swedish state budget was tunneled through frozen fish. Basically, you can orient yourself if you want to be a carousel fraud, any massively imported or exported commodity. It doesn't have much to do with the commodity. But what all these scams have in common, regardless of the commodity - no one, of course, does it in volumes up to a million a month. There's no risk. In other words, the amendment tabled by President Fiala is absolutely safe and supportive from the point of view of tax evasion, which nobody has to worry about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u35	Thank you. That was the last application for a debate. I'm done with the conversation. I ask if you want the break, Mr President, after the final words, before the vote. Before the vote. I ask if the Prime Minister wants to have the final word for the third reading. It's not like that. The rapporteur also does not want to have the final word. We're just before the vote. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I am declaring a break for the TOP 09 meeting. I'm just gonna repeat, Mr. Chairman, did you say 30 minutes? Forty. Okay. That'll be 11.17. I'm interrupting the meeting until 11:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 11:17 p.m., the pause for the discussion of the TOP 09 and the starosta has passed. We will continue to discuss the Government Bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended. The final words were held and we are here before the vote. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Václav Votava, to introduce us to the draft procedure for voting on this bill. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u37	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would like to introduce you to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u38	I will ask everyone in the room to be calm and concentrate on properly approving this very important bill. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u39	The motion to reject this amendment has not been tabled, which means that we will not vote here. We could therefore vote on the resolution of the Committee on Budgets as a whole if there is no objection. We would then vote on the amendment under letter B, which is Mr Rais's amendment. We would then vote on the amendment under the letter C to colleague Maxová, which has already been discussed livelyly here. We would then vote on the amendment by Mr Petr Fiala D1 and Mr D2. As the penultimate vote, the vote would be on the D3 of Mr Fiala. Finally, we would vote on the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u40	I thank the rapporteur for the draft procedure. I'm asking who's got something to do with the procedure. The President of the Civic Democratic Party, Zbyněk Stanjura, is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u41	Thank you for the floor. While we know how the votes are likely to turn out, but in order for it to have logic, I think that first we should vote on proposals D1 and D2 because if they were adopted, then Amendment A3 and C are unvoted. And if we were to agree to one reduced rate, then there is no point in voting on moving from the first to the second reduced rate. Otherwise, I agree with the next procedure. That should be the first D1, D2, and please put it together, because it's connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u42	I ask the rapporteur whether it can be done in this way or if he considers it a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u43	So I can agree with that, I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u44	Well, then, I ask the rapporteur to adjust the procedure and present the procedure to the Chamber of Deputies in agreement with Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u45	So we vote first vote D1, D2, and then we vote as I said: Budget Committee B, C, D3, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u46	I'm asking if anyone else has any other suggestions. It's not like that. I will call our colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on the procedure as proposed by the rapporteur Václav Votava. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the procedure as proposed by the rapporteur, Mr Václav Votava. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 22, registered 146 Members, for 144, against none, the draft procedure has been adopted. I therefore ask the rapporteur now to present the various proposals, I will ask the Prime Minister's opinion, the rapporteur's opinion, and I will put them to a vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u47	So now, as the first vote, we would vote D 1 and D 2, which is Mr Fiala's amendment, it is a reduction in the first rate of value added tax from 15 to 10 %.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u48	I am opening the vote on proposal D1, D2 of Mr Fiala. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 23, 144 Members are registered, for 63, against 74, the proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u49	We would now vote on the amendments included in the resolution of the A1 to A8 Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u50	Initiating vote... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There's a motion to check out. I declare this vote confusing. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to rejoin your voting cards. We will therefore vote again on the proposals under points A1 to A8 of the Budget Committee. The views of both the rapporteur and the Prime Minister were positive. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 25 vote, 147 Members and Members have signed up, for 116, against 31, the proposal has been adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u51	So now we would vote on Mr Rais's amendment to letter B. This is an extension of the deadline for the submission of the corrective control report from five days to five working days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u52	I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 26, 147 Members and Members have not been there for a long time, for 147 Members and Members. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u53	We would now vote on Mrs Maxová's amendment under letter C. This is an extension of the heading of the second reduced rate, i.e. 10%, of foods for special medical purposes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u54	I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 27, 146 Members are registered, for 51, against 61, the proposal has not been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u55	We would now vote on the proposal made by Mr Fiala under D3. This is the introduction of a limit for reporting control reports and a change in the frequency of reporting control reports.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u56	I am opening the vote on Mr Fiala's proposal D3. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 28, registered 147 Members and Members, for 70, against 63, the proposal has not been adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u57	Since we have dealt with all the amendments, we have to vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u58	I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on value added tax, as amended, and other related laws, according to House press 291, as amended by approved amendments'. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 29, registered with 148 Members, for 103, against 43, the bill was passed. I state that we have given our consent to the bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Prime Minister. The chair of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek will take the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, it was your right to show the will of the majority. However, allow me, as representatives of the minority, to tell you that you have burdened small entrepreneurs and businessmen with a completely unnecessary administrative burden, which will not result in one extra crown in the state budget. Please remember this sentence of mine in two years, when we compare sales developments in the Czech Republic and the development of the efficiency of VAT collection. These decisions have one advantage. They can always be compared after some time and tell whether they have brought their result or caused their damage. Now I dare you to prophesy that you've done nothing but harm, no benefit to anyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u60	Thank you to President Kalousek. Furthermore, the President of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Tomio Okamura, claims with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, the Úsvit movement voted against this law because, unlike the government coalition, we refuse to increase not only the bureaucratic burden for small businessmen, when we have 600,000 unemployed, 8 percent unemployment, and the government does nothing about it. Now, remember that you supported the grey economy with this vote, supported the fact that many businessmen end up in employment offices or lose their appetite for business at all. And above all, you have absolutely failed to encourage people to employ themselves and to motivate them to do so when you are so incapable of creating new jobs or at least supporting a concept. It's really a huge step to the left of this government. We in the Úsvit movement support businessmen, support small businesses, support the activities of those entrepreneurs and small businessmen, and we actually reject this. I am really shocked that we have remained a minority here, especially at this time of huge unemployment, with which this government is unable to do absolutely nothing, and yet you are betraying the feet of those who are small, tiny and trying to make a living in their daily work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u62	Thank you to President Okamur. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u63	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank those of the government Members who have joined our amendment, which could rid the smallest of the bureaucratic responsibilities, because we think that this was not a purely government and coalition vote. We could have done a good thing without ever violating the meaning of the law that we doubt the meaning of the measure. However, you have decided in majority that you will burden the small and small ones with another bureaucratic duty. But it is fair to say that it was not only the opposition but also several members of the government coalition who voted against it. The only thing I'm sorry about the debate. The Prime Minister got off here this morning and said he would fully represent the Minister of Finance. We accepted it. I asked specific questions about the bill and the Prime Minister did not consider it appropriate and necessary to answer the specific questions. Well, if that's how he imagines he's a full-fledged member of the Treasury Secretary, well, I'm sorry, because the debate was rational. We did not debate completely simple things about what to transfer from the first to the second rate and so on, but unfortunately we did not receive the answer. And that's what degrades the debate. Then the Prime Minister complains that some are dragging the debate, and if I came out and asked specific questions, if I had heard the answer, I wouldn't be talking now. This way, I must remind you that the Prime Minister avoided the answers, and it doesn't matter if he didn't, and he could have said so, because it's not his material, or he didn't want to. At the same time, he said he had enough material from the Ministry of Finance. So I rule out the possibility that he wouldn't know the answers to the questions. He simply did not consider it necessary for the opposition to answer specific factual questions before the final vote. For example, I did not know why you supported proposal A3 and not C. No reason except for a positive or negative opinion, no reason for that we simply did not know. And let me just remind you that A3 was a proposal approved by the government by the Committee on Budgets, and an amendment under letter. C also presented a government MP. It's not really easy. And we didn't know why the Ministry of Finance or Government chose one option and not the other, and it's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u64	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now with priority rights, the Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u65	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will indeed be very brief. Now it's time to vote. The time to discuss was at first reading and was used. The time to discuss was on the committees, it was used. The time to discuss was second reading. That time was used. It is now the third reading and there should be a debate on legislative proposals and changes that are at the third reading. I think the attitude is different, of course. I believe that after a few weeks of negotiations, and they were opposition Members who yesterday complained that the House has been acting for a long time, but I think it is a good thing that after a few weeks of negotiations, we finally have a third reading of these bills, and we can finally decide on them. And maybe it would be good if we did some statistics on how much we've been retiring over the past few weeks and how much we've actually done here, voted, decided. In my opinion, the third reading is about decision-making, and given that we have limited time for third reading today, and that time space, as far as I know, ends at 14:00, if it is not extended, I will not be speaking in the debate to take up the time to discuss the bills that have been waiting for several months in this Chamber of Deputies to come to a turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u66	Thank you, Prime Minister. President Kalousek, after him President Stanjura, after him President Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u67	Prime Minister, forgive me, but only an ignorant man is unable to understand that this is not a very standard situation, because you have made a second reading of this law for an emergency meeting on Tuesday. At this extraordinary meeting, you have reduced your deadline to 48 hours between second and third reading, even though we all share the view that 72 hours is not enough, and that is why we are putting ourselves in the Rules of Procedure as a minimum for a week. There were some amendments at the second reading. These amendments have been quite well-founded, and it is logical that not only the opposition, but the coalitions and the public would expect the petitioner to publish opinions on these amendments in an enlightened manner, not to keep silent and say: you are not worth the answer now, because we are in a hurry, we are limited in time to 14.00. So I will allow my colleague Stanjur to answer why this is so. You may have noticed that when the Minister of Finance presents something, he has a friend on the phone. He gets a question, he gets a comment, the finance minister takes out his cell phone, texts the Treasury officials, answers him when he gets the answer from his boyfriend on the phone, so he goes and answers. Sometimes there's confusion, if the finance minister can't hold on, answers now, a friend on the phone fixes it, then he can fix it. [[Fun in the hall.]] That's what we witnessed last week when he said zero and then he said no five. But okay. For God's sake, the finance minister has at least the boyfriend on the phone, and although he's usually not aware of what he's presenting, he's able to make a statement and then finally tell us something. Since you've been out of finance, there's been a lot of changes in staff over the past year, over the last few years. Mr. Prime Minister, when you represent a minister and submit drafts of laws for him, get a friend on the phone there, so you can give us a fucking answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u68	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now President Stanjura, after him President Okamura, after him Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u69	I think we can agree that the law is not completely simple and trivial. And the Prime Minister here spoke so heartily as he lay here for many months. So I opened up, as he can, the history of the House press 291. He came to the House on 3 September, on 4 September the organizational committee actually determined the rapporteur with a one-day minimum delay and on 1 October, at the earliest possible opportunity, we discussed this first reading. You voted to shorten the deadline. So we got 30 days. For the first time, the Committee discussed this eight days after the first reading, which, of course, is not enough room for us to make qualified amendments, and for the second time, 29 October. Then you called an emergency meeting, there was a second reading on Tuesday, and again you shortened the deadline to 48 hours. I want to remind you that this is the last time, well, maybe by the end of the year, then it won't work. Even the amendments, which will sound at second reading as if they were heard here, and three and were not completely simple, will have to discuss the guarantee committee. And I suppose, when this is done, the chairman of the guarantee committee will state the reasons for the position - I do not agree. We just wanted to, because we had two days to review the amendments. The Prime Minister is all nervous about the fact that we didn't act on Wednesday after 7:00 p.m., even though we pointed it out on Tuesday. It had nothing to do with Wednesday's program. Just to remind you, Prime Minister. We started Wednesday at 9 a.m., we finished at 7 p.m., and my colleague Pavel Blažek and I discussed the constitutional law on referendums for our club at 19.15. So we've been working here for more than 12 hours on Wednesday, and you're saying, "The opposition was really slacking on that Wednesday, she didn't want to do it." Doesn't look like little to me 12 hours a day. I say the Minister of your Government has called it. Of course, we accepted the invitation to the meeting and you can ask the participants that we were quite active during the negotiations between 19 and 21 o'clock. [[11.40 hours]] All we wanted, or I wanted you to explain to us, and briefly why the Ministry of Finance is saying by your mouth, I agree - I do not agree with the three amendments. Our questions were related to the amendments tabled, we did not repeat the debate from first and second reading, we did not repeat, we just wanted to know your position. You said this morning, I'm fully prepared, I'm at your disposal, and then you're silent. That is what any minister could have done, read, said nothing, did not participate in the debate and then read the background materials, a positive opinion, a negative opinion. The Prime Minister really didn't have to do that. Anyone else could have done it. Actually, it's just the Minister of Culture when I look. [[Only Minister Herman sits in the government bench.]] You said yesterday that we should read the list of Members of the Chamber of Deputies present, so much shorter is the list of members of the government, at this point, two who could read it. And that's it. And we are not under any time pressure, there are not enough amendments in the following points to worry that we will not be able to do so within the legal time limit within 14 hours to discuss these points, including the point from the 21st meeting, where there is also one third reading. So your argument of time distress is simply not relevant. You put us in a time emergency by voting for you and your colleagues to reduce the deadline to 48 hours. It's exactly the opposite of what you're saying and saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u70	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now President Okamura, after him the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really must respond to the Prime Minister's words. Because this is where the law is presented on Tuesday at second reading. There are some amendments that we can't even make a proper statement to, because we don't even know about them. Basically, there's no room to study the designs. And then the Prime Minister here will tell us three days later that we are not to speak, even though we have the right not to express ourselves, we must not comment in front of the public, we must not express our views. We've basically been here since the vote. So this is how I noticed that the Prime Minister had it done in the government coalition, that just vote as a machine and just push the button and keep quiet, if possible, do not get off because when we look at the ratio of the emerging members of the government coalition over the past year and the ratio of acting in opposition, they are either forbidden to speak or maybe they have nothing to say, but I don't know, I haven't asked anyone in particular. But if something reads here on Tuesday and we don't even know what it is, and then we study it, when the government is constantly shortening something, some deadlines, and there are always some extraordinary meetings, and then we want to comment on it in as little time as possible, and that's still being prevented and criticized here, so I'm sorry, but that's not possible. That's not really possible. And you, Prime Minister, are really an expert in blaming the government coalition's actions then against the opposition, and I don't know how we got it at Dawn. And we're basically just watching how there's one meeting after another, one special meeting after another, and it's still postponed. Now, about Wednesday. Wait, but that really was the highlight, even your words yesterday, because if you blamed, among other things, the Dawn movement, that it wasn't Wednesday after 7:00 p.m., that's actually a lie, because we got an invitation from the minister of your government, Mr. Dienstbier, to a meeting about the municipal referendum law last week! That means we received a meeting last week from your minister, Mr Dienstbier, to meet the club presidents plus one person on Wednesday night 10 minutes after the meeting at a meeting that lasted about an hour and a half about your government bill on a general referendum. So now I don't know if we were supposed to act 10 minutes after midnight, or I don't know exactly when, but you invited us to an appointment that lasted an hour and a half. About a major law. And now you're saying that we shouldn't have been present at your meeting, our chairmen of the MPs plus one person, when something was to be voted on here. Well, now I don't know! And it just shows the confusion again, it just shows that the unsystematicness of the place overlaps one by one, and there's actually no proper system in it. I also have to comment on the pressure that we're supposed to be here to avoid sticking to the laws that lie here for months. You're right, maybe our amendment to the local referendum law or our Act on the Direct Election and Revocation of Mayors and Mayors is here. And we would like him to finally get to a meeting at the Chamber of Deputies. For example, our amendment to the local referendum law hangs here already, we put it in May. This means that six months are blocked by government coalitions, and we are not alone in this, as I have found out, they are also proposals of the KSČM, they are proposals of the ODS, TOP 09, they are proposals of basically all of us, so six months have been blocking the government coalition of democratic discussion of these laws in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Seems to me like you're already doing this on purpose. That is why we met on Tuesday, the chairmen of the MPs, the opposition MPs, and we decided what to do now. And we want at least one opposition proposal for each side to be held at every subsequent meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Because it's not possible. You normally, I understand when the government mostly rejects our proposals after the debate here in the plan, in front of the public, in front of the media, and we ask for and against, then have the citizens evaluate it. But the fact that you won't even let opposition proposals into plenary means that we can't actually account for our work in front of the public and we couldn't say for and against, and that there is democratic public controversy in front of citizens over the correctness of these proposals and over your counterproposals and counterproposals, so that is really the verge and it is really worse, it is worse than it has ever been in Parliament of the Czech Republic. This is an absolutely undemocratic procedure. And I have to say that we are here this year, and I can say that again probably only I at Dawn, maybe still partly KSČM, because we were the only ones who voted - the Dawn movement - against the service law. But what we're doing here in time this year is because of the service law. It's because he's presented himself with such a pasquila that we've spent the whole summer here, for a few months, and now we're getting into time pressure. So please, Prime Minister, don't tell me we're under time pressure because of the opposition, but let's face it, because I don't have that short of a memory that it's because of the government's inability to present at least some functional service law. I don't value that stuff anymore. I've said that before. It's been discussed many times. But because of the fact that the amendments were even tabled by government MPs, that is, you couldn't actually agree with each other here in the government coalition, so we spent a lot of time here, and now we're in a time crisis. Yes, we're in a time crisis, but it's not because of us again. And you have 111 or how many MEPs you have in general, because yesterday, when I looked at the benches of government MPs, there was really a minimum of them, that you, the coalitions of government, didn't even fill the bargain because you didn't fill the bargain, the number of your MPs, so basically the meeting couldn't even take place here, let's face it, so let's not blame anyone else again. I was here, for example. And when we wanted to act here, for example, in the middle of the morning, how many government ministers were here in the morning? Two, right? Well, you were here, yes, but otherwise there were two ministers. And then when I looked here at the opening of the full schedule at 11 o'clock, I saw two ministers here. So ministers don't have time to go to meetings. I understand that ministers are about 17 or how many, now don't take my word for it, but two out of 17, well, I think it would either want to improve the attendance of ministers or start a real debate about a slippery mandate, which, among other things, your fellow party has started. Because if someone can't handle two functions, it would be good for them to put one down and maybe come back to it sometime in the future. But in conclusion, the fact that there is time pressure is not because of the opposition. You've got 111, so far you've pushed through and voted for absolutely everything. Absolutely everything! I don't know how many months the government's been to blame and the government's coalition. I don't understand why you didn't enforce it in June, why you didn't enforce it in the summer. It's not our fault! After your performance yesterday, which unfortunately we couldn't respond to, because it was already after the pause, after Mr. Kalousek got here, so we couldn't respond to it, I was completely shocked! I mean, you blamed the fact that the law here is being postponed, normally to us, the opposition that doesn't affect it at all! Definitely not the Dawn movement! So I'm asking you in the context, and we can ask you about it afterwards, when it comes to a meeting point, why didn't you put it on the agenda for that six months? Why did you keep putting it off? And now you're saying it's because of us! I absolutely don't understand. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to say that it is absolutely the responsibility of us, the majority government coalition, of what is happening here. We, as I have set this particular example, even our laws here are not even given in plenary, have been in line for six months. That means, that's the best proof that we don't have any influence on it at all, and you're promoting exactly what you want. That is, this is what I wanted to say, and please, Prime Minister, do not blame it on opposition parties, virtually. I only want to speak for the Dawn movement. We had nothing to do with this. It's purely your government responsibility, what's going on here, what's the agenda, what's going to be voted out and what's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u72	Thank you to President Okamur. Now with priority rights, the Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u73	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. I would like to give a procedural proposal that we have time for our constructive discussion of the proposals that we are discussing here today, so I would like to propose that we vote today at third reading even after 14 o'clock. And I would also like to propose that today's meeting day does not end at 16 o'clock, but is extended until 19 o'clock. [[11.50 hours]] I think that by voting in favour of this proposal, all Members can show good will to give sufficient time to discuss individual proposals at the second reading stage. In my opinion, this honest approach is to provide sufficient room for third reading, so that we can discuss these proposals here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary, because if we go into the debate now and go back to yesterday, to Tuesday, to Monday, we will miss all the time and neither of these points will be on the line and neither of these points will be possible to vote today. So I would like to propose that we act at third reading even after 14 o'clock, so that the meeting day ends at 19 o'clock, and please let us discuss the individual proposals as they are tabled. I can certainly go back to answering all the questions that have been raised here today. But I point out that we don't have time. At 14:00, the vote on proposals ends at third reading. Already there was one break at the meeting of the MP's club today, which means one of the MP's clubs met in the meantime between the third readings. I would very much like us to have this debate here, but I'm afraid there isn't enough time for it. That is why I propose the proposal that I put forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u74	This is a procedural proposal that I should put to the vote. But I hear something about the veto. prosit, Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u75	Forgive me. A procedural proposal that can be vetoed has fallen. At least part of him. So let me make a statement. If anybody's getting under time pressure here, Prime Minister, it's the government's total incompetence and chaos, requests he wants or doesn't want to discuss. Do you want better and easier proof for the public than that we have three meetings on the agenda today? Try explaining to the public that we started the 20th meeting today so we can continue the 21st meeting, and when we finish the 21st meeting, we will continue the 19th meeting. These are your ideas. Not ours! And there are some Members of the Chamber of Deputies who are no longer involved. Why should the public, who often doesn't understand what you're doing here, what are you doing here and what are you changing here every morning? And I would take the liberty, on this occasion, before I say this veto, to take a hard turn together with my colleague Okamura against your words, which you said here on Thursday after the break was announced, that the opposition was responsible for not discussing the law on the salaries of the judicial authority just because we did not want to act after 19 o'clock, which we announced long in advance. You yourself, Prime Minister, said the law wasn't here until July 31st. It's a matter of government why he hasn't been lying here on February 28th, because he could have. There's really nothing complicated about that. If, despite the submission by the government on 31 July, I would remind you that from that date on 31 July, with the exception of two weeks The Chamber of Deputies sits continuously. We are here from morning to evening thanks to the confusion and incompetence of the government to manage the work so that we can manage it effectively. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And if you want someone... I'm sorry, but there's a terrible scream.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u76	I apologize, please, to the honourable Chamber of Deputies for the peace of mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u77	If you want to convince someone that you haven't been able to place the point here since July 31, because the opposition has prevented you from doing so, Prime Minister, as an older colleague, I allow you: Do not ridicule yourself more than is absolutely necessary. No one can believe this. And do not seduce your own incompetence and incompetence against the opposition. You've had a few months to put this on the House's agenda any day and discuss it any day. If you believe that today, November 7th, the opposition will again be pushed under pressure from you and pushed under time and forced by blackmail to shorten deadlines, I'm telling you in advance, no. No point at all. Because your responsibility is your inability to organize the government's work, the Houses, so that we can work effectively. On behalf of two MPs, I veto the voting proposal for a third reading after 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u78	I'm asking the Prime Minister if he wants to modify the proposal in some way after this veto. The Prime Minister doesn't want to. It is now Mr Sklenák's turn to make a point of fact, followed by President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u79	Thank you for the floor. Not "now it's my turn." It was my turn before President Kalousek, but unfortunately you have repeatedly preferred your chairman over others. You should be careful with that. A few comments on what President Okamura said. Here it repeats itself all the time, and I just have to constantly argue against it that the coalition here is changing the agenda every morning and we're not assigning any points to the opposition. I want to say, Mr Okamura, through the President, a proposal has been made by your colleague Radim Fiala, for example, to set up a committee of inquiry on the D47 motorway. This is what the House has accepted. It also included firmly the proposals of Mr Stanjura, who had three parliamentary proposals here. And we granted it and put it on last Wednesday. The second thing is that then President Kalousek, when these points were due, so because Minister Šlechtová here said that she was cold and that we weren't treating each other nicely, he had to calm down for two hours at the break. A colleague of Mr. Zahradník, we have included the Law on Sumava, on which we have spent several hours here. And yet it was quite predictable that it would be rejected. And so on. So opposition proposals are being discussed here. We don't change the agenda here every morning. We place points firmly on some of the following days and always keep you informed. And as far as the payroll bill is concerned, he's been placed and fixed several times. It was included, for example, in the second week of the hearing, but again, when it was due to come, a break was taken by the TOP 09 club. If anyone is causing problems in the House running, it is the opposition by making long speeches here, suggesting that points such as Martin Stropnický's apology for performing in a series and similar. That's what we're talking about for hours, and then what's left to discuss the law is drastically reduced by recesses at the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u80	Sorry, Mr. Chairman. [[Chairman Stanjura came to the microphone.]] With a factual remark, the Prime Minister is now reporting. Prime Minister, are you interested in a point of order? You're logged in. [[Yes.]] Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u81	Thank you. Just to understand the whole situation that has arisen here in the Chamber of Deputies, because maybe someone could get lost in it. I have been criticized here for refusing to respond to the opposition's questions, stating that there is a lot of time to discuss the draft laws, that there are only four or five laws at third reading, and that we have enough time to discuss them. I took the liberty of pointing out that it's almost 12 o'clock and there's really only two hours left to deal with the five laws. In order to allow enough time for the debate that the opposition is calling for in order to have time for it, I have proposed a simple measure so that we can still discuss the five laws today after 14 o'clock. I suggested it, and the very same parties that criticized me for not performing, that I did not take up the time that was meant for voting at third reading, so exactly the same parties - ODS and TOP 09 - brought about an extension of the time for third reading. I think it must be clear to everyone at the moment what is going on here: to disable, if possible, the discussion and approval of any proposal that the government is putting forward here. And if it can't be postponed, blocked, at least we can stop the meeting from being completed. After all, today was to be voted in third readings, and these proposals were to be discussed here. Instead, there is a general debate here in which we are returning to the events of the past weeks and months, without any link to the draft law under discussion and the proposals that have been made here. I think that if the opposition really wanted to hold a third reading debate, why would it veto an extension of the third reading after 14 o'clock? There's no reason for that. [[Tense atmosphere in the hall, some opponents standing in front of their benches.]] So the opposition does not want to have any debate. In fact, it suits her that there is little time and that at this point we will have a big problem in order to discuss the five laws by 14:00, when we will have to get back to that next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u82	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u83	So it is such an original approach that the opposition is obliged to help the government and support their proposals. Well, not really. ANO colleagues were not here last time, but there really were legendary Tuesdays, when at least two leaders of the then opposition of the Czech Social Democratic Party, Mr Sobotka and Mr Zaorálek, even three hours justified one point. We rarely got to vote on the agenda before 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday. Indeed, we do not oppose this, as Mr Sobotka and Mr Zaorálek did here in the last parliamentary term. Anyway. I think when we criticize something, we don't have to do the same thing, and we don't. I know the Prime Minister has a lot on his plate, and he's losing his bearings in those meetings, like many of us. Let's see what he actually proposed to us today - a longtime MP who's been here for about 20 years, unlike me. He says: I suggest that today's meeting ends at 19 o'clock. I will try to quote to you a law called the Rules of Procedure Act, § 53, which states in paragraph 1. 1 : "The House shall open its daily meeting at 9 a.m. at the latest and shall end at 21 a.m. at the latest. [[quotes]] Voting on draft laws, amendments to them and international agreements requiring Parliament's approval and amending this time for voting may be initiated no later than 19 hours. On a proposal from at least one fifth of all Members, or two Members' Clubs, the House may decide otherwise." The Prime Minister obviously doesn't know. The proposal is completely useless. The law says the day ends at 21. He wants to vote to end at 19, so he actually wants to shorten the legal deadline. And he says he's running out of time. At the same time, there are some unwritten customs. And that's true. And the unwritten custom is that Friday ends at 2:00 p.m. For many reasons. Not all of us are from Prague, not all of us have drivers, we also need to get back to our regions sometime. A while ago, one of my colleagues said that we're basically here, apart from two weeks, many months all the time. The deadlines are getting shorter all the time. And the Prime Minister is making excuses. The government has called an emergency meeting. There are seven points on the agenda today, and not one minister in charge is here! Not one point! [[Very loud, strong, banging on the speaker table. Let's hear it from the right.]] And the Prime Minister is criticizing the opposition! They can't make order in their own ranks so ministers are in the House with their bills! And then they shut up, the understudy. And he calls it an effective debate. Third reading. That's really not normal. And the Prime Minister used his favorite method yesterday - he attacked the opposition at a time when he couldn't defend himself. And if part of the opposition resists, the Prime Minister says, "Don't fool around, we'll act now, won't we? But I think if anyone attacked, it was the Prime Minister yesterday. Falsely informed. Here's where he said, "I'll design in the morning." He forgot there wasn't a 19th meeting this morning. Yesterday he was screaming as soon as he proposed to put a point in the morning! Well, I couldn't! I don't blame him. Who is to know - 20, 21, 19, there, back, 48 hours, 30 days, shorten, shorten, accelerate, accelerate, accelerate. When are we supposed to talk about what's inside? But remember how we are - not just us, but also the civil society... We, the government, have complied with the request of the Reconstruction of the State and have enforced the amendment to the Rules of Procedure. It's not gonna be like it used to be. There'll be plenty of time! There'll be guarantee committees! But no one acts like it! And he blames us! The whole debate we've been having for 25 minutes is only because the Prime Minister refused to answer specific questions. And instead of doing so, they will attack the opposition again. Well, at least let his club president tell him how it was, how it works, who's got most of it here. We'd like to have a majority here. Unfortunately, we don't. And I remember it from last term, and I know what it's like in government benches and opposition desks. We have also sometimes done that we have not included opposition proposals and we have included government. I'm not criticizing that. But crying here that there's been VAT for two months now that our proposals have been here since March, since April, it hasn't been a first reading yet! I was here yesterday. I've interpolated the Prime Minister in written interpelations. He was here. I thanked him correctly that he was present twice in three weeks and once at the European Council, i.e. He had 100% attendance from my point of view. On the other hand, I didn't see the Minister of Agriculture here in November or October, I don't know if in September, I don't remember. Then we should have discussed our bills. Unfortunately, they didn't happen. And I don't want to say as Prime Minister - it's the opposition's fault. Just the Chamber of Deputies didn't meet properly. I'm just saying, and I'm not pointing my finger at other people. So our two bills fell through, they couldn't be discussed. And then they flunked me because I signed up for the draw - I signed up with three interpelations for the Prime Minister and three interpelations for the members of the government. But the Prime Minister interprets it by blocking the opposition's work and actions. It's just not like that. He blamed himself for this debate because he falsely accused the opposition. And then they're so surprised when the opposition fights back. But we'll defend ourselves every time you attack if you're wrong. And I have to confirm the words of one of my previous speakers. You're welcome to dismiss our proposals. We just want to discuss them. We want them to be voted on and decided - either to go to second reading or to be rejected at first reading. We make the same decisions with government proposals. And I say, it doesn't bother me that the government has more proposals to make than the opposition. It's always been here, and it'll always be there. And it's understandable. I said that at the last meeting. We also had a debate about how there was communication between the government and the opposition. At the last meeting, zero of the opposition proposals discussed. And there are four opposition parties. And at this meeting, I don't know if zero or one, I don't know from my head right now, but I'm gonna count it fast. It's not that complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u84	Now with a factual remark, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. After that, the President of the Dawn Parliamentary Club, Mr Radim Fiala, made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u85	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I do not think that we need to control the speech made by the President of the Stanjury Club in a groan to find out that he has committed a lie in his speech. He said that today we are discussing laws at third reading, and there is not one minister to which this matter is concerned. I noticed that the first law we discussed was the Health Insurance Act. We discussed this at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies today. There was a Minister of Health on that bill. Who else should submit the Health Insurance Act on the basis of a competence law other than the Minister of Health? So President Stanjura lied here in the Chamber of Deputies. And I'd like to ask him to apologize for that. Two. The fact that I'm presenting a block of proposals tabled by the Minister of Finance is something that we've already discussed here. I do not understand why President Stanjura is reopening this issue with the lack of a relevant minister. After all, we made it clear at the beginning of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies that the Minister of Finance is not here because he is at the Ecofin meeting. If he hadn't gone to the Ecofin meeting, the opposition would have been the first to criticize him for missing there at the Ecofin meeting. That the minister isn't at the desk. It's just a dilemma that the finance minister solved correctly. He asked me to represent him here at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. I took his place. And the government is ready to discuss these proposals in the Chamber of Deputies! So there's no reason to say that none of the members of the government in charge of these proposals are here. Minister Němeček was here. The Minister of Finance is represented, duly excused. And at the beginning, it was stated, and opposition representatives said so, that this is an apology justified, that they will be attending the Ecofin meeting today. So I don't understand the argument that was used here. And at least part of the argument was false. And as far as the payroll bill goes, I see I've been hitting the living.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u86	With another factual remark, President Radim Fiala. Following it with priority rights, President Stanjura and President Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to comment on the draft laws of the opposition. It is true that we met as the chairmen of all the parliamentary parties' clubs and agreed whether or not the laws of the opposition would be included. We asked for any little opposition window to discuss our laws. As my colleague Sklenák said, there is one law proposed by the Dawn movement, and that is the D47 investigation committee. But the law is neither left nor right. It's not the law of the left or the right. The interest of all of us is to investigate what happened there, why the highway is what it is to not spend unnecessary state resources on some skendrian. I don't think there's any politics, and it's in the interest of all of us. But, indeed, opposition laws did not get into the agenda, they lie here for more than six months, and we would like to discuss them, because all the parties promised their voters before the elections that they would enforce their programmes, and for these party programs they were elected. So no matter how the laws go, whether they're approved or not, we want to discuss them. And I think it's very important to all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u88	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman. After him, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u89	I can address the Prime Minister directly. Prime Minister, I got knocked down, it wasn't a deliberate lie. Sometimes it happens that he gets knocked down. And you're right, the Minister of Health was at his point. And if you think I should apologize for that, I apologize for that. Not only you, but also the Minister of Health, the entire government or the government coalition. It really wasn't an intention. Sometimes you get knocked down. But you should also apologize to the opposition for falsely accusing her of having only destructive behavior. That's just not true! And I'm not going to pull out now, and I could, even from this meeting, where the law, for example, without our voice, would fall under the table. It may seem so heated, but if you look at the statistics, at least our club is doing it, I suppose there are also other clubs, so there are dozens of percent of the votes, the majority of the votes, when we vote as much as the government coalition, or as much as part of the government coalition. And then, of course, there are things that we really have a different opinion about and where we all defend our principles, our ideas, our designs, our ideas, and there we simply disagree. On Tuesday, as chairmen of opposition clubs, we protested only against the fact that meetings were misorganized. No one answered me why we have 20 and 21. Why isn't it at a meeting? The honest answer is: we forgot to write one proposal. I could understand that. I think it happened to us when we ruled, whether in my term of office, when I was here or when my colleagues were here. And I don't want to make excuses for not being there, they were other colleagues from our political side. That's normal communication. We wanted to, and we are calling to plan a programme, not to vote together. That's completely different. For example, in the last parliamentary term, in addition to the Organizing Committee, the Grémia of the House sometimes invited colleagues from opposition clubs informally for breakfast and we decided, as we imagined, the course of the meeting - the first week, the second week when we thought we would want a longer vote, when we did not. That seems normal to me. In the end, the government's gonna get it, we respect that. It just bothers us because the MP - and you know it very well - or the Minister does not have duties only in the House. Visitors visit him, mayors, mayors, council members, but also citizens. Not only to our parliamentary offices in the regions, but also here. And if I don't actually know what's on the agenda, if I happen to be the club's correspondent for the bill, I can't actually organize the program well. And that's what we're calling for. Yesterday I made it clear in the media that no amendment to the Rules of Procedure would change that. But if we normally agree on which days will be negotiated, how long will you give room for opposition proposals, it will work better. Not that it's a saloon, that we'll never exchange a few sharp terms in terms of content and in person. I'm sure you didn't. But we'd all be calmer. And the fact that we've been here too long certainly contributes to the nervous atmosphere. If I'm here on Wednesday, ten o'clock, then two hours I'm dealing with Minister Dienstbier, and then you say in the media or on the microphone, if I can't defend myself that the opposition doesn't want to work, then maybe if we're more relaxed, we'll pass without a note, without a defense, we'll wave our hands at it, but since that's the case, don't be surprised. You attacked us, yet you have a majority in this Chamber of Deputies. And you keep talking about those legendary breaks. Our club didn't take a break at these three meetings except after 7:00. And we honestly told the heads of government clubs on Tuesday afternoon that we would do it because we didn't know what Wednesday, Thursday, Friday would look like. But it's actually outside of unwritten customs, outside of unwritten hours. I find it unfair to blame the opposition for taking a break after ten hours of negotiations, and then don't blame us for resisting such accusations. But to get back to the beginning. There was no intention. I didn't falsely accuse the Minister of Health or you. I forgot about that one point. I was talking about the energy law and the block of these six laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u90	Now, with a factual remark, President Sklenák, after him with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u91	I'm really just being brief, because I'd like us to get to the third reading if we can't discuss them after 2:00. Just two reactions. To ask you again why we have three meetings and how to justify it. Someone's been asking how you're gonna justify this to the citizens that we have three meetings here. I think that we will make this very clear to the disabled why we have three meetings and why we have allowed ourselves to convene an emergency meeting to ensure that they do not have huge problems after the New Year that would have occurred if this law had not been passed, which is at the 21st meeting. Everyone would have to go back to the medical examiner, huge problems with the exchange of certificates of extraordinary benefits. So I think we're gonna have to make a point. I'd rather wonder how you're going to justify that it's such a problem for you to have three meetings and that you're in such a mess that you'd rather there wasn't a meeting and we didn't pass that law. Of course, we proposed to include the item in the proper meeting, and you know that we know the rules as well as you do, so when you put the veto on the inclusion, we had to respond to extraordinary meetings. If you hadn't vetoed it, we'd have discussed it in a proper meeting. And otherwise, we keep talking about how we're not able to convey the idea of a meeting and that we're not communicating. After all, gentlemen, we discuss each meeting from morning to evening, and so generally, to say so on a microphone, the idea of members of the government coalition can be summed up very simply. The government coalition has an interest in discussing government laws first and foremost at each meeting, and we want the meeting to discuss all government laws. So that's our idea. You told us your fantasies, too. Therefore, as I said here, we have included some of your suggestions, the opposition windows were here. You guys retiring is your problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u92	Excuse me, before President Kalousek makes a point of fact, Mr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u93	Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u94	Sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I can't give you my word. We are among the points and only those with priority rights can speak. I'm sorry. prosit, Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I would like to remind you of your sentence you made about an hour ago under the value added tax point. When there were very clear and substantive questions that we would like to hear the answer to, because, in my opinion, there is no credible answer to them, you said: I did not want to answer and I did not want to delay the debate, because time is running out and we have to vote it out. However, if there have been relevant objections to your competence to answer these debates, or to your ability as a coalition leader to establish effective links between work, government and the House, then suddenly you have enough time and you have been performing like a giant, since then you have performed about four times. You don't feel sorry for your own incompetence. In defence of the factual questions that have been put on the bill that you submit, you regret the time. That's just the way it is. I'm just reflecting what we've heard here for the last hour. The government's interest is to enforce the maximum of government laws, the opposition's interest is to adjust them as much as possible according to the programme that it promised its voters, to prevent some of them. It is also our interest to discuss some of our laws, which have actually been in the Chamber of Deputies' office since spring and are regularly removed from the meeting. [[12.20 hours]] If, Prime Minister, you have time contrary to your sentence... You said you didn't want to delay the answers, but then you have enough time to defend your own incompetence. That means, if you have enough time, so do we. I ask for a 20-minute recess for a meeting of the MP's club just to unite the position so that the hot heads cool off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u96	On this request, I am interrupting the House's meeting until 12:39 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Time's up for recess. Before we continue our negotiations, I'll read the notes that came to me. The first is that today, between 14.30 and 19 o'clock due to negotiations in the electoral region, Mr Vlastimil Vozka apologizes, and today from 11.15 to 13.30 Mr Stropnický apologizes and from 12.30 p.m. Vice-President Petr Gazdík apologizes. Before we proceed to discuss another point, I have here an application with the priority right of President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u98	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that the Prime Minister is not here right now because I wanted to turn to him, but even though he is not here, I am turning to all of us to point out that, in addition to the role of the legislature, we also have a role of control and that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we are a sovereign and that the government is accountable to us and that we are responsible to the public for what kind of government we have put our trust in and what kind of government rules here. I say this because in the last few minutes the first Vice-President of the Government of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, who, as we well know, is excused properly, is at Ecofin, at the Council of Ministers of the European Union, nevertheless able to monitor internal political events. I've got confirmation that it's authentic. Authentically, he wrote on his social network about his government colleague, Minister of Health Němeček: "Snajdroid" - I do not know what is a šnajdroid, we will ask for an explanation of Mr. First Vice-President of the Government when he arrives, but that is not essential - "Snajdroid Němeček should immediately take anti-alcoholic and psychiatric treatment," writes the first vice-president of the Czech Government for the Minister of Health of the Czech Republic. I don't know what a snail droid is. We'll let it be explained in time. [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] But we are in a situation, ladies and gentlemen, when the Chamber of Deputies and the First Vice-President of the Government are meeting about his government colleague, the Minister of Health, says that he is to take immediate alcoholic and psychiatric treatment. [[Prime Minister Sobotka enters the hall.]] I cannot imagine a more urgent subject for the House of Deputies if it is sitting as a government supervisory authority rather than asking the Prime Minister as the person responsible for the government's work - thank you, Prime Minister, for coming, I will repeat this once more, because I think it is such a serious subject. [[Laughs in the hall.]] [[12.40 hours]] While we were here, Prime Minister, discussing government proposals from Minister Babiš's workshop, Minister Babiš, your first Deputy Prime Minister on his Twitter - and I repeat, I have verified that this statement is authentic - he commented on the address of your Minister for Health as follows: "The Němeček Šnajdroid should quickly start anti-alcoholic or psychiatric treatment." The Chamber of Deputies, as the body to which the government is responsible, cannot remain inactive, dumb to this, cannot ignore it. We can only see this as a total breakdown of government. We don't know what a snail droid is, at least I don't know, maybe the Prime Minister will explain that to us someday. But I am asking you now, Prime Minister, as Prime Minister, who has gained confidence from the Chamber of Deputies, to tell the Chamber of Deputies whether your Minister of Health really should immediately take on alcoholic and psychiatric treatment, and, if so, how can he be a Minister of Health, and if it is merely an insult that your first Deputy Prime Minister addressed to your government colleague, as you will act as Prime Minister against your first Deputy Prime Minister, who behaves this way. Because, whether it is variant one or variant two, it seriously discredits the government, reduces its public esteem and thus reduces the credibility of the Chamber of Deputies as an institution that has given the government confidence. Prime Minister, no matter what point we are discussing right now, we are asking you to make a clear statement, including how you will proceed, because I think this does not have a precedent in the history of Czech parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u99	I will merely state for the sake of order that we are discussing the agenda of the 20th meeting, and at this point there is no point open, which means that only people, Members and Members, can speak with priority rights. Assuming no one signs up with priority rights, I'll open another point. This is President Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, you're having a lot of fun and laughs here, but I'm not having fun and laughing. This is... [[Laughter from the diaper.]] And keep laughing. Do you really think that Czech political culture can afford to have one member of the government say that about the other member of the government, and we will laugh about it here? So we will not answer this in front of the citizens. We must be clear about this, and we must reject this fallen political culture full of insults and vulgarity as the Chamber of Deputies. But okay. If you don't mind these stupid vulgarities of Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, then I will read to you what Andrej Babiš wrote, and it's already very serious, on his twitter: "In 2009 Němeček bought a cyberknife as director of Ostrava University Hospital for 200 million, a normal half price. He's a European record player." And another tweet a few minutes ago, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister: "But I understand that building a house in Čeladná is an expensive matter." So, ladies and gentlemen, if these things are true, if this is how you communicate within the government, then we are in a situation that is extremely serious and must be of interest to every citizen of the Czech Republic. I really ask the Prime Minister to comment on this, to comment on these accusations that the first Vice-President is making against one of the members of the government, and to comment on the dictionary and the insults that are also contained in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u101	Thank you. The President Kalousek and the President Okamura report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u102	Prime Minister, through Mr President, we have both been in the top policy for several years, and we both know this is not funny. We both know that what appeared on your first Deputy Prime Minister's twitter is more important to the political culture and stability of politics in the Czech Republic, with all due respect for your government bills than anything else. How are you going to keep your government's trust in the public when the First Vice-President of the Government spits on your Minister of Health in this way? Or he doesn't spit, or he's right, and then how can you have that kind of health minister? In my opinion, there are only two options. Either the Minister of Health ends up in your government in a historically short time, or your first Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, or they both leave. The situation where both of them could stay there after these statements is absolutely comical and you will ridicule this government not only in front of the Czech public, but also in front of the whole of Europe. I firmly hope that you can express yourself even now and at this moment, because I repeat again, in 25 years of Czech parliamentarianism there is no equivalent! And I now implore you, however much I have not voted in favour of trusting your government, so that, in the interests of the last remnants of this government's trust, as its chairman, you will now take a stand and say something! If you want anyone else to be willing to see this government as a relevant body next week at all. In any case, after a quick consultation with my colleague Stanjura, I advise that an emergency meeting will be convened by the opposition on this subject. We're going to want an explanation at this extraordinary meeting, and we're going to want to deal with it. But if you want to at least stop the breach of distrust that your First Deputy Prime Minister caused by this statement, say something now and don't sit here like... please don't sit here, Prime Minister, like an absolute coward. Now either you speak or you're not Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u103	I have two applications with priority rights. The first is President Okamura, and after that is Prime Minister Sobotka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think so, and I am saying this frankly here, whatever you think, that when the Prime Minister here spoke of the seriousness of today's points at third reading, I would like to say that this is the most important point. It is a far more serious point than to negotiate within 14 hours the third reading of these laws. Because if two members of the government, one of the highest officials in the Czech Republic, tell each other that they embezzled public money and built their property for it, their house, we really can't leave it without comment. And it is necessary, and I call on the Prime Minister to comment on this. Because it's impossible to sweep this under the carpet. And it is not that opposition and coalition, Prime Minister. That is ten million citizens of the Czech Republic at this time, ten million citizens of the Czech Republic waiting for your response to the accusation that one of the ministers embezzled public money and built a real estate for it. And one or the other is wrong. That's quite obvious now. One or the other. Now it is necessary to say who is wrong and to find out what the Prime Minister will do. Because now everything is in the hands of the Prime Minister. How it's gonna be. Prime Minister, I would like to call on you to give a specific answer as to what your actions will be in this case, because I did not know about the case in detail. I also learn the information gradually. They've been around for months, haven't they? And I beg you for a specific answer. It's extremely serious. And once again, there is no need to discuss the third reading in that case, because it is so serious that this subject needs to be addressed in detail and clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u105	Thank you. Just for the record. President Kalousek has made a point of fact, but there are now no factual points, because we are outside the regime of proper debate. So with priority rights, the Prime Minister, after him with priority rights, President Kalousek, and after him with priority rights, President Stanjura. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u106	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, it has been clear to me for almost an hour that today we will no longer be able to go further from the point of view of those laws which should be discussed today at the third reading, and I understand that any pretext for this ongoing meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is appropriate. And to the brink of what Mr Kalousek said here. I find these statements of the Minister of Finance completely inappropriate. These are statements that are completely incompatible. If a government is to form a working unit, it is intended to form a team, so individual members of the government cannot express themselves in this way to their address. No doubt it's a subject that we're going to be dealing with. We'll deal with it within the government coalition. Representatives of the government coalition will meet and we will have to address this issue. Mr Kalousek here spoke of the rest of his trust. I don't know what the rest of the trust he's talking about. He may have remembered the time when he was in Nečasův' government and 11 percent of the citizens trusted that government. Yes, that was the rest of the trust. We started a new project ten months ago, which aims, among other things, to restore confidence in politics to the people of the Czech Republic. We have tried to form a new government, a new coalition that has a sufficient majority in the Chamber of Deputies. Ten months we've been trying to correct the mistakes of the governments that were here before us. At this point, the coalition has passed a number of enforced laws and a number of changes that are perceived positively by the citizens of our country. Our government has strong public confidence, and I want to make it clear at this point that social democracy will do everything in its power to enable the government to continue in favour of citizens and in favour of the proper functioning of the country. But I agree that the Minister of Finance's remarks, which have been published, deserve an explanation on his part. I have no objection to this being explained here in the Chamber of Deputies, because if the Minister of Finance wants to accuse someone, he should also put evidence on the table and act clearly on this matter. Of course, the Minister of Health has the right to defend himself and to respond to these statements made by the Minister of Finance. But it's the thing we're going to discuss at the Coalition Council, it's the thing we're going to talk about inside the government coalition, and in this way, I certainly don't want the government to be presented on the outside. In the last ten months of the government's operation, nothing like this has happened. In the same way, we should continue. I do not want to go back to what we experienced here, when you had a coalition with Public Affairs, when you were constantly arguing, when the government survived from one vote to another, when MEPs crossed the party, changed their positions at the last minute. We are simply not going back to this situation in Parliament and in the country. Our goal is to fulfil the government's programme, to bring it to an end, because we believe that the Czech Republic needs stability, it needs a functioning government. We are a functioning democratic government here, which would have a clear mandate from the citizens, for a very long time. And there are many things that we need to correct in the Czech Republic even after you, Mr Kalousek. And speaking of a decline in political culture, I really wouldn't want to remind you how your last government ended. I do not want to commemorate the escapades of Topolánek and other representatives, Mr Řebíček and others. I don't want to go back to that. That was an era that was a really dark era for our country. You have been very active in this, Mr Kalousek. So I consider the statement of the Minister of Finance inappropriate, and we will certainly talk about it within the coalition, and I do not want this government of the Czech Republic, which seeks to restore trust in people, to make it possible to do a normal, decent, pragmatic, democratic policy here, so I do not want it to act that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u107	Thank you. I just need to ask. I have a factual comment here from President Fiala. Are you applying for a priority debate? It is not possible in the form of a factual comment, only with priority rights. Now, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, without any emotion and in all seriousness. But how dare you?! There were words here that did not know Czech parliamentarism for 25 years. And you have the courage, the insolence - that's not the courage - to step out and start by saying it's an excuse to discuss a proper program? I haven't heard this insolence from comrade Jakeš since he called for peace of mind. That's not normal. You said, I don't know how I understood the words were inappropriate. In what way were those words inappropriate? That Babiš was right, but shouldn't he have said it out loud? Or that Babiš is lying? Or what did you mean she was inappropriate? What does that mean? And we certainly don't know what you will do about it as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. In order to say the whole thing, he is not a monologue of Minister Babiš towards Minister Němeček. He's the dialogue. On the one hand, Minister Němeček, a member of your government, says about Minister Babiš, a member of your government, that he stole from the state's material reserves. And Minister Babiš, a member of your government, says about Minister Němeček, a member of your government, that he stole from public health insurance. I'm not the one who made this up, unfortunately, that's what your government members say about themselves. I've gotten used to it over the years in politics that this is something that journalists sometimes write about us. I even noticed that sometimes, and I wish him good luck and happy birthday, that it was a favourite sport of one of your favorites, Minister and Member Rath, when he was acting here as an opposition MP, and now he was pointing out individual government ministers and saying, he's stealing, he's stealing, he's stealing. His main favorite was the Minister of Health Tomáš Julínek. I also understood this as part of a very unethical, disgusting political struggle. But I've never experienced it, I've experienced it for the first time today, and that's why I'm calling you as Prime Minister to accuse one member of your government publicly of stealing from the state's material reserves, and the other member of that government, the one who allegedly steals from the state's material reserves, accuses the one who accuses him of stealing from public health insurance in return. The Chamber of Deputies will be very interested, Prime Minister, not only was the words inappropriate, I understand that seems appropriate to you. But if that's true. 'Cause who are we supposed to trust? I've been used to not trusting Czech journalists over the years. For the past two or three years, I've been confirmed to be very restrained in my belief in law enforcement agencies. But I'm not supposed to trust your ministers? Your government, that is, its ministers, has expressed confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. There are two options. Either she did it recklessly, because now you're gonna tell them yourself, "Don't believe them, if Babiš says he's stealing about Němeček, and the Němeček says he's stealing, they're wrong." That's one option you can say. Well, okay. If your ministers are publicly lying to the media, then why should we trust your government? Or your ministers are telling the truth, Němeček, when he says that Babiš is stealing, he's right, Babiš when he says that Němeček is stealing, he's right too. But why on earth should we trust a government whose ministers are stealing? Prime Minister, I beg you very much to tell us what these options are, because I don't see any others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u109	Thank you. Furthermore, with the right of priority, I have President Stanjura and then President Fiala. You've changed the order. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not been in politics for many years, I am more of a long summer in politics, but from the Prime Minister's reply, I feel that he has not fully understood what is going on here. So let me put this very simply and in a very clear way. The First Deputy Prime Minister accused the Minister of Health of being an alcoholic, mentally ill, and stealing. And there's only two options. Either that is true, and then it means that the Minister of Health must leave immediately, but then I also ask about the Prime Minister's political responsibility, who appointed him to this post, leaves him there, and he is a member of his political party. Or the charges are pointless, and then the First Deputy Prime Minister and the Finance Minister have to resign because he lied and accused another member of the government illegally. There is no other option, Prime Minister, and it's as simple as that. We can't settle for you telling us: well, that's an inappropriate statement, a coalition board meeting, we'll talk about it, and you're holding a meeting here. No. This is an extremely serious matter, which calls not only for an explanation, but also for concerted action from the Prime Minister, which must follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u111	Thank you. Now, then, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u112	I was extremely disappointed in the Prime Minister's performance. You're not gonna get out, you're not gonna cut it. You're just gonna have to decide. But you, too, ladies and gentlemen, will have to make a decision. It is not possible for the government to continue the composition in which it is - now I am talking about personnel, not political. No way. If the members of the Social Democracy MP think that the Minister of Health has been wrongly charged, they are to defend him, they are to stand behind him and support our proposal and our call for the Prime Minister to call off the Minister of Finance. However, if the members and members of the ANO Group believe that the first Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mr Andrej Babiš are right, then logically they must stand behind him, they must support him in this statement and in the subsequent steps that should come, and logically they must support our proposal for the Prime Minister to call off the Minister of Health. Nothing in between. And it's not just about him, it's about you. It saddens me that many respectable personalities sitting in government benches laughed when they heard that opposition would want an extraordinary meeting on this subject. Do the Social Democrats really want to support these points proposed by the Minister of Finance, who says their Minister of Health is stealing and building a family house on Čeladná or some other property? Is it really more important? Now, November 7th, approve an amendment to the State Budget Act 2014? Does the Prime Minister want to tell us that this is what is most important at this moment? Maybe he believes it. No, he doesn't believe it, I really don't think he believes it. He's trying to distract us. He wants to transfer it to some coalition council that's not public, without cameras, without media, without citizens. And it's the second time in this meeting. I've already talked about when another Minister of Agriculture accused the head of the MP, his coalition partner, that he wanted him to benefit his company, and the head of the MP of your coalition partner said: that's not true, but this minister modified the terms so that his family company would prosper. And again, it wasn't an attack by the opposition. Again, it was only the government coalition's statements. So don't try to turn it around, because the opposition wants to extend something, postpone it, make it impossible for today's meeting. We leaked the information on social media today? Are these our statements or your cabinet members' statements? And it's not as the Prime Minister says very often: well, it's a minister who doesn't belong to my political party. The Prime Minister is the only one who can propose the appeal of a particular minister. No one else. Even if we agree beautifully, either with you, that the Minister of Finance should leave, or with you, that the Minister of Health should leave, it doesn't mean anything. This is just a recommendation from the Chamber of Deputies and the decision will be in the hands of the Prime Minister. And he just can't avoid it when he thinks we're gonna be discussing big and small budget rules today and he's gonna forget about it. [[13.10 hours]] I promise you, we won't forget it. We don't really care that this may be discussed at the Coalition Council. But this will be discussed here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which is accountable to the government! The fact that the executive, the legislator, is screaming at us that we are not proceeding according to what the executive wants is a very strong statement that we have been listening to for the last three days! But you just can't escape from this, Prime Minister, from this decision. Those aren't inappropriate words. Perhaps we could be, if we were extremely tolerant, about the first statement that the Minister of Finance accused the Minister of Health of being an alcoholic and that he needed psychiatric care, perhaps you, with a great deal of tolerance. But the moment we talk about criminal acts, the fact that someone is using public funds for their own private benefit is not an inappropriate statement! That's an extremely serious accusation! Of course, we don't know who's right. We don't even know. We just want you to be clear about this and say, for example, "One or the other will go!" Or will they both sit there? And will they exchange messages about state material reserves and cottages in Čeladná? That wasn't really here. Mr Kalousek spoke of the opposition attacking the government or back... The government is attacking the opposition again. We're trying to free ourselves from personal attacks and we're trying to promote program things. But this is not a case of a struggle between government and opposition. We didn't bring it here. We didn't publish those statements. We didn't charge anyone. We don't send anyone for alcoholic treatment or psychiatric treatment. They are members of your cabinet, and we are interested - apart from the way you listen to it - certainly not pleasantly, we can agree on that - what you will do about it. And to say it's an inappropriate statement, it's just not enough. That's just not enough. But don't try to accuse us of not wanting to discuss these really unimportant points at the moment. It's just not like that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u113	Thank you. Furthermore, with priority rights, Minister Chovanec is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have noted very well the indignation of the opposition on this subject and we share it. On the other hand, I don't understand what you're asking the Prime Minister to do today. It's legitimate for both gentlemen I don't see here to comment on this matter. I hear from Mr Kalousek here, through Mr President, that he does not trust the Czech newspaper. But Mr. Nemecek's statement is only from the newspaper. Let's wait for both actors to comment on this matter to the Prime Minister. Let them have the opportunity to defend themselves, and I am convinced that the Prime Minister will act hard and decisively on this matter. [[The only laughter in the room.]] That's it! I am quite glad that we did not receive your confidence in the establishment of this government, as you have reminded us many times. But let us work things out, and we'll figure them out. Please keep that in mind. As far as an emergency meeting is concerned - why not? But the government coalition has the right to hear both actors and ask them if they are the authors of those statements. That can happen. And the question is that both gentlemen in decent men's and women's societies have the right to defend themselves and prove evidence. The only thing I can't explain to the public after today's meeting, ladies and gentlemen, is that we leave this meeting and raise our salaries so disproportionately that I can't explain it to those citizens. Let's get back to this meeting, please, nicely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u115	Thank you. Furthermore, President Okamura has priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have raised some questions here a moment ago and I am truly very disappointed in the Prime Minister's speech. Because either the Prime Minister didn't hear my questions - apparently he didn't hear them because in response he focused on the balance of the ODS government and TOP 09 and basically the answer consisted in what we also see critically, but the answer was that he actually calculated the differences that occurred during the ODS and TOP 09. Prime Minister, in case you haven't noticed, I wasn't here. I am new to Parliament, so I have nothing to do with previous governments, so I would ask you to look not into the past in your answer, but to answer me, and to point out again, it is the main article on all servers in the Czech Republic, millions of people are already seeing it today to answer for the future. That means, not only will you be saving it or asking. I'd like to ask you how you're going to save it, because when members of the government accuse themselves of corruption, that's an extremely serious charge. So whether you're gonna file a criminal report or whether you're planning to deal with it in other ways. So please, let's not waste any time, please, answering the balance of the past. I had nothing to do with the past. I wasn't in politics, and neither was the Dawn movement in politics. Please contact the future and I would like you to outline specific steps. That means whether your first step will be to ask the government or to ask the relevant ministers. After you find out both and what, if you hand it over to any law enforcement agencies to investigate. Or, in that case, if you call off someone from the government. Who, then? Or if it doesn't, it would mean sweeping under the carpet, that's obvious from this. In addition, I remind you that this information has been going around for months, so I assume you've already made some inquiries or maybe you've already taken some steps. So please, let's just turn to the answer for the future. And I would like to ask you whether you would develop your answer, not only to ask or investigate, that is really very inadequate when two members of the government accuse themselves of corruption, but I would like you to tell us and the public the concrete steps that will follow. Because it is quite clear from this accusation that one or the other is actually lying. When I put it plainly: one or the other is probably not telling the truth, or apparently not telling the truth, or half telling the truth, or half telling the truth, or half telling the truth, now I don't know how it is. That is why I would like to ask you what concrete steps are going to be. It's not like we're just investigating, we're just looking into it. If you'd like to develop it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u117	Thank you. And now with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u118	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, once again, when you accuse the opposition of delaying the meeting, of dragging it out, I would like it to be said here that there was no opposition MP. That he was a Member of Social Democracy and the President of our House, Jan Hamáček, who signed the official journey of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies to Filip to Moscow, which this House assessed as a security risk, and so he expressed himself. If your Member and our President had not done so, we did not have to spend half a day here from your point of view of unnecessary discussion, from our point of view the necessary discussion, because this prevented historical shame at the prestige of the Czech Republic. They are not opposition MPs who accuse each other of stealing public money. The chairman of the TOP 09 Club Kalousek did not accuse Stanjura of robbing public funds. And Stanjura didn't accuse Kalousek of robbing public funds. We, as the chairmen of opposition clubs, that is, the House of Deputies, which is entrusted with the Constitution as a supervisory function over the government, have recorded the words of your ministers accusing each other of robbing public funds. About what Minister chovanec said that something could have been shifted medialy. I imagine it could have been somehow medialized by the statement of Minister Nemecek because he was interpreted. But Minister Babiš's remarks, which begin with a psychiatric and alcoholic hospital, which he highly recommends to his colleague in the government, continue despite how he stole the Němeček and how he understands that the Němeček had to steal because he was building the house in Čeladná. These statements are not interpreted through the media. These statements are on Andrej Babiš's protected twitter. I can't imagine he wouldn't be protected enough. They're just authentic statements from your first Deputy Prime Minister towards your minister. [[13.20 hours]] And I repeat once again that this House, and now no matter whether we are coalition or opposition Members, must be completely disfigured. Either the ministers of your government are telling the truth, but then they're stealing. And why should your government have confidence? Or the ministers of your government lie, they don't steal - that's nice - but they lie. And why should your government have confidence? I can't imagine any other way. Both gentlemen either lie or steal. When I think of the proverb my grandmother taught me, she didn't see the contradiction. She usually connected it. She said, "He who lies steals." But I don't want to go that far. I can only imagine two options. Both gentlemen are either lying about each other's accusations, and then we can't trust them, or they're stealing, and then we can't trust them with a dumbass. I suppose they're both lying and stealing, but I daren't say. [[Laughs mainly from the right. Let's hear it for the TOP 09.]] You guys have said here a few times that it's your business to figure this out in the coalition. I don't know if you want to settle this in a coalition. I'm afraid you could sort it out in the coalition by saying, "You know what? Then we'll lie and steal, but we won't talk about it out loud. Please, we can't let that result happen. It's none of your business. This is the matter of this Chamber of Deputies, which, once again, has constitutional control over the government, and this Chamber of Deputies has been confronted today with the fact that your ministers are either lying or stealing, and it is the duty of this Chamber of Deputies to get the result of what is more likely the option of these two options. I said, no doubt, we're going to have an emergency meeting. At the meeting of Members' Club Chairs, we will consider whether it will be an emergency meeting on this point or whether it will be a meeting convened to voice the government's confidence. I generally lean towards the other option, because if two prominent members of your government offer us no choice but to lie or steal, then we should not trust them either. But now I don't want to get ahead of the discussions that await us. In any case, we will address this at an extraordinary meeting, and I can hardly imagine a more important extraordinary meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u119	Thank you. President Stanjura, Prime Minister Sobotka and then Minister Válková and President Okamura are now claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u120	Thank you for the floor. The debate is extremely serious, so allow only a short response to the Minister of the Interior's speech so that we understand each other. We didn't want - I speak for our club - for the Prime Minister to say who's right now. We understand that at this second, at this minute, he can't even say it. But I said that we would welcome, for example, the Prime Minister's statement that he will say here: I will investigate, and whoever is wrong and falsely accused his colleague in the government of stealing public funds, he has no place in my government. Of course, we as opposition cannot know who is right. We're not even gonna find out the truth here. That's what the government has mechanisms for. So we don't move it somewhere it's not. We didn't ask the Prime Minister to say right now, "I'll call him off." I'll call him off. I'll call them both off. I'm not calling anybody off. We just wanted to hear that if one or the other proves to the government and to us, the Chamber of Deputies, that his suspicions are justified so that we do not wait again for the final judgments in eight years that the Prime Minister will act. And we understand that he needs some time to do it. But the time shouldn't be long, because these things are extremely serious. We're not happy about this. We don't even laugh about it like many of us do. Because I don't think it's funny. As opposition, we could have our hands on each other as members of the government coalition are having sex. It's just not like that. We know who has the majority. We know who's in the minority. But that doesn't mean that we can't deal with and demand the Prime Minister who is responsible for the government as a whole to decide quickly, to say, if necessary, on what basis it will be decided and how it will be decided. Without him telling who's right at this point. We understand that. We didn't challenge the Prime Minister to do that, because logically he would have to say, I don't know at the moment. And we respect that. For example, if the Prime Minister says this sentence that we offer him or something similar in a similar way, for this moment, for this minute or hour, it is enough for me personally. But if the Prime Minister says, as he has said so far, "this is an inappropriate statement, we will discuss it at the Coalition Council," that is indeed - that Czech is pretty - that is really incredibly little.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u121	Thank you. I will now, with priority right, ask Prime Minister Sobotka and prepare for Minister Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u122	Thank you. I must say that it would be really weird if I blame the opposition for delaying the House of Deputies today, and I think that it would be mostly unnecessary, because when you look at the fact that we started to act at 9 o'clock today, it is almost 14 o'clock, we have discussed three bills. We have been discussing three bills all along, and I am talking about this period before any pretext for further discussion has been given now during the discussion of the proposals. At the moment when the opposition was the one who initiated the possibility of negotiating the laws in the next few hours, I think that anyone who would follow and follow this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies must be absolutely clear to him who was delaying the discussion of proposals at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't want to talk about other days, other weeks. I do not want to go back to what has been happening here virtually permanently for the last ten months in the Chamber of Deputies, but today, really, after a meeting from 9 to 14 o'clock, three legislative proposals discussed in third reading. Another five bills that we probably won't get to at all today, including, of course, that we won't get to what we should get to, and that's the bill on the salaries of constitutional officials, because if we don't accept the amendment, then from 1 January next year, constitutional officials' salaries will skyrocket by 26 percent! And that, in my opinion, is something that we should not accept as responsible Members. As for the debate that's going on here, I think it's true what I said here. It's a matter of coalition dispute. We have a government that has a majority in the Chamber of Deputies. It's a government based on a coalition treaty. Three political parties are cooperating. The Coalition Council needs to meet to discuss the public dispute between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance. I consider the dispute inappropriate. If anyone's making any accusations, they should prove it, or they should apologize. I think that's the obvious thing. If someone is accusing someone of something, they should either provide evidence or apologize for the accusations. I want to meet up and meet with the Minister of Health, meet with the Minister of Finance, and I will be interested in this matter. The Prime Minister is not to be tasked with the police in any particular matter. Here, and now we're talking about events, if they've been mentioned here in the House, and there have been quotes here, we're talking about things that are in the past. It's not a matter of the last ten months when the current government is here. Many of these things are deep in the past, and these are not things that would be unknown, which would no longer be publically discussed and shaken in various ways. I will be interested both on the side of Minister Němeček and on the side of the Minister of Finance, on what arguments, on what evidence they base their claims on today's public publication. That's the first thing. [[13.30 hours]] And the other thing. We will discuss this at the level of the Coalition Council. I really don't want such disputes, such unnecessary gunfights, to lead the government away from what it's supposed to do. We have promised citizens that we will improve the functioning of the Czech Republic, that we will push through the government program, that we will bring to an end the things that there has not been time for in recent years because there have been no stable governments. Now there's a chance, there's a stable government, there's a sufficient majority in the House, he doesn't need defectors, he doesn't need to shake from one meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to another, that he's going to lose most. I think we should take advantage of this opportunity in favour of the Czech Republic. I understand the opposition is using this thing. I get it. If I were in opposition, I would certainly also ask the Prime Minister. It is legitimate on the part of the opposition if the Minister of Finance expresses himself in this way. This needs to be dealt with by the government's coalition. And I really don't want similar gunfires to bother citizens or complicate the functioning of the government at all. That's my statement on the whole situation. I believe that, of course, the opposition has the right to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, but this does not change the fact that we will discuss this within the coalition, we will deal with it within the government. And I would very much like the government to keep up with what she said, work and implement its government program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u123	Thank you. And now I will ask for a speech from Minister Válková and President Okamura will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u124	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to one point that has not been discussed here and which I believe is much more of an interest to the citizens of this Republic than to those discussions which I already see from a certain point of time as significantly destructive and distracting. Because everything that had to be said was said. There have been serious accusations and it will prove whether they are clear in political terms or whether they will be held by law enforcement authorities. This should not be the subject of the deliberations of the Chamber of Deputies. However, citizens are wondering whether we will adopt an amendment in time to remedy the current unhappy state of mind in order to impose a decision on the joint property of spouses, for example, whether we will accept a new adjustment to the flat-rate reimbursement of the costs of the unrepresented participant, which I believe we interrupted at absolutely unnecessary time at 19 o'clock on Wednesday. We were assured by the opposition - on Wednesday morning most of us believed this assurance - that only twenty to thirty minutes will be devoted to another point that is easy to discuss, virtually. He'll discuss it quickly. Specifically, we know what the point was. About purely political. And then we'll continue with a properly approved agenda. It wasn't like that. So what interests citizens, what would improve their situation, what the Justice Department has prepared, and what I consider to be my duty to defend and enforce here, is not being discussed. Which in no way makes light of the situation that has now occurred. But I think that this land, this time, this place and time are not appropriate to continue a debate that degenerates its absent participants, virtually. absent, which is directly concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u125	Thank you, Madam Secretary. President Okamura will now appear and then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u126	So I listened carefully to the following performances after my performance, and I'm not only in shock, but I'm horrified. Because racking the problem from both the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister's mouth, it's probably just a nightmare. Because on the one hand, when I comment on it from the secretary, I didn't understand it at all. Because on the one hand, he's going to say that everything has already been said here, on the other hand, he's going to say that he doesn't want to downplay it. I don't know. And it was also said here that it may be because of the opposition that we are delaying - from the Prime Minister's mouth. But no one from the opposition said the accusations! The accusations were made by the Minister of State to the other Minister of Government! So, you, if you don't blame each other for serious corruption and serious crime, we have nothing to say, and we have nothing to comment on. So it's always an attempt to turn it to the ruby and problems of a government coalition to blame someone who can't help it. But I'm really sorry, I can't believe this. Again, I stress, not the opposition here, but the coalition government ministers have accused each other of serious crime and some health problems that they should be treated for. And we're just reacting to clear the matter up. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister again if I can ask the instructions: If the suspicion is confirmed, will you call off the relevant minister? If he doesn't confirm, will you call off the relevant minister? If you confirm and find out serious facts, will you file a criminal report? Because I don't think it's enough to cover it up. If it had happened to me that I would have been in the government and in your position and there had been such an accusation, I just wouldn't have waited a few days, in this case for months, because the information has been going around for a long time, but I'm going to start saving absolutely immediately. So that's one thing. So I would really ask for a clear answer here so that we can assure citizens or inform citizens of what are the next steps of the Prime Minister of this Republic in the event of the mutual accusation of ministers for serious crime and corruption. The second point I would like to comment on is President Kalousek's proposal. Yes, after hearing the debate here, I say that the Dawn movement will actually discuss the possibility of an extraordinary meeting to trust the government. We are going to discuss it, and we really need to say something about it. Because it is obvious here that concrete proposals for action in the case of mutual accusations by government ministers of serious crime and corruption that we will obviously not be able to get answers here anytime soon. So, unfortunately, after this debate, it is quite clear that the Úsvit parliamentary club will have to meet and take a position on this proposal by President Kalousek on how we will stand up to this. And the last thing is-- but that's a played song. I'm getting a little bored here that the Prime Minister keeps saying that the payroll bill stays here because of the opposition. So I would point out once again that you, the government, have been proposing it to the Chamber of Deputies for months. Because of you, he's been lying here in the Chamber of Deputies for months. You overruled us 14 Members of the Dawn at any time, i.e. We don't have an influence on it. You have a majority here. And the law could have been discussed here by now. So the fact that he is not being discussed and that the Chamber of Deputies cannot get to him now after a year of your government can only have two reasons: either that the government is weak and you do not have the strength to enforce it, or that there is some weak government governance, or that is the disgust of government MPs as such. Isn't it by chance that many government MPs do not really want this to get on the agenda for this meeting? So, Prime Minister, I don't want to develop this debate here anymore, but I would like us to name things in the right name and not put reasons on something else. And I ask you repeatedly here to answer these questions publicly, because the mutual accusations of ministers, such high-ranking representatives of the Czech Republic, from serious crime, I think it would be good to outline further steps specifically that would follow after you discuss this at the Coalition Council. You said you'd discuss the coalition council. And I would ask you to answer what will be step two after you discuss it at the Coalition Council and after these findings have been confirmed or not confirmed. But if it's confirmed what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u127	Thank you. And now with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u128	Thank you for the floor. I just have brief remarks on the speech of Secretary Válková and the speech of the Prime Minister. Madam Secretary, you said this was not a good place to discuss this problem. Once again, this is not a good place, you said where we should discuss this problem. I, with all due respect, have always been convinced that you have appropriate constitutional trials. I don't have them, but from what I know from constitutional law, the Government of the Czech Republic is confessing to none other than the Chamber of Deputies. It is hard to find a place other than this place where the government of the Czech Republic has to answer for the fact that its ministers are either proven to be lying or stealing. Because he blames each other for stealing, which means either he's right, and then the other one steals, or he's wrong, and then the first one lies. And it both has something to do with what the Constitution is also working with, and that is the trust of the Chamber of Deputies, which is spoken out or not spoken out to the government. And trust is expressed on the basis of whether the Chamber of Deputies trusts the government if it does not lie and steal. At least that's what I thought. I may find out in some time that a government coalition is enough to steal and lie, but it must not be talked about, and that is enough to trust. But now I don't know. Now we are confronted with public statements by ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic who accuse each other of stealing, stealing, or lying, or lying, and stealing both. I still don't see any alternative. If the Prime Minister has spoken to them many times, it is difficult to work towards a different outcome. That one of them is lying or stealing or both. That's what the Prime Minister is doing. And again, Prime Minister, I'm sorry to remind you not to ridicule yourself here: let's do something more important. This is a marginal. And again, this is the last I heard from comrade Jakeš 25 years ago. When hordes of cops beat up children in the National Class, comrade Jakeš stepped out and said: "We must not let a small skirmish keep us from making important decisions to a set of measures to improve the national economy. [[Applause from Members of the TOP 09.]] I remember that as today. This House is confronted today with the fact that your ministers accuse each other of robbing public funds, and you say: the opposition deliberately emphasizes it in order to keep us from the important work so that we do not have time to discuss Act No. 218/2000 Coll., as amended. Do you understand how ridiculous you are when you say that? And do you understand that we still want to believe for a little while that you want and can solve this fundamental problem because your ministers are accusing each other of stealing, and that it is not possible for both of us to stay in the government, that you have to solve this? But you can't figure it out somewhere in the monster of some coalition contract where you make a deal with Andrej that you're gonna get two more jobs on the supervisory board that he's gonna usurp, and you're not gonna kick him out of the government for it. We want a transparent solution to the Prime Minister in front of this Chamber of Deputies, which you answer to, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-07-ps2013-020-02-003-011.u129	Since no one with prior rights is now applying, I will repeat that we are still in the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which was exceptionally convened for the purpose of third reading. And since no one with prior rights applies, I will open another item which is on the agenda, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Opening point
