ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u1	25. Proposal of Members of Roman Sklenák, jeroný Tejc and others to issue a law amending Act No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other employees in administrative offices (service law) /German press 71/ - third reading Given that Mr Heger, who was interrupted during his speech last time, has, of course, the opportunity to finish his speech. Therefore, Mr Heger has the floor, after which Minister Jourová has the priority right. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. I ask the House to keep it down so that the Member can argue in a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good morning. I was expecting something to happen at the beginning of today's program after it was announced to the media that the coalition would negotiate the Civil Service Act with the opposition. So far, nothing concrete has happened, so I have no choice but to finish my speech from Wednesday this week, which concerned the position of the TOP 09, the entire right-wing opposition and the position of my personal to the service law. I'm just trying to follow up on what I'm saying here, so -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u3	Ambassador, I'm very sorry. I beg especially the left side of the hall - I will not name anyone - to keep them quiet. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u4	Thank you. I will recall what I said last time that I will discuss four such points here, which will demonstrate how difficult the preparation of the Civil Service Act has been in recent years and is difficult at present. I was talking about the first point, and that's what happened in the preparation of the law for Rusnokův's government. Now, let me show you that even the views relating to the structures close to today's coalition, and the views are probably not as clear within the current coalition as they would seem from some statements. I would like to remind myself of the comment made by Minister Dienstbier, who has spoken repeatedly, some of them actually several times in yesterday's Events, comments on the Czech Television program 24. The program, if you haven't seen it, concerned the culture of political communication and politics at all in our time, and it was Minister Dienstbier who acted as a coalition and said - so Mr Benda sat against him and from afar it was commented by former Senator Daniel Kroupa. Now, Minister Dienstbier, in support of what is bad in current politics and how bad the opposition is doing, said about this - all of which, of course, concerns the Civil Service Act: The problem of the Directorate-General, which raised the opposition, is total nonsense. He also said that the problem in the super-office, which the opposition also has a problem with, is absurd. Absurd - period. No more comments. And what I was particularly fascinated by was the announcement that was repeated after yesterday morning, or during the day, the television had already filmed it, and that Minister Dienstbier argued: we need to find out if obstruction is self-effective. I must state to Mr. absent Minister Dienstbier that the opposition's reservations really are not self-serving. We are simply convinced, just as the coalition believes that its version is correct, that some principles from our point of view are simply wrong, devastating and very dangerous for the future of this nation and our policy. And these are the things that we, together as the TOP 09 with the ODS, have put on the paper in four points and we would very much like to have them discussed further. And the fact that it's not total nonsense -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u5	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry again, last time I reprimanded the left side of the hall, now I'm reprimanding the right side of the hall. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u6	Thank you. I'm going to try not to put the complaint in the middle and fall on me, and I'm going to talk - so I'm going to try to talk so that I'm interested. What I want to say and quote here is a statement on the service law that comes from the end of January this year. It's from a structure called Good Government. It is a citizens' initiative that is close to a grouping such as the Foundation's Anti-Corruption Fund or the State Reconstruction Group. Lukáš Wagenknecht is the chairman of this organization's Supervisory Board and, in what I will quote, the spokesperson for this organization. If you do not know Mr Lukáš Wagenknecht, I believe you know him, he is an important figure in the current coalition, the first Deputy Minister of Finance, who joined his office in February, or just after the article was published in the Lidové noviny. Just something about the Good Government organization. I would quote from publicly available materials what is the vision of this structure: "The responsibility for improving the quality of democracy and the rule of law in our country is for every citizen. We are a civic association aimed at improving the quality of public administration and legislation in the Czech Republic. We promote principles and principles of good practice in public administration based on international standards. The Centre of Excellence for Good Government is an independent and non-party think tank, which focuses on research, education and policy advocacy in the field of good practice in shaping and governance in the spirit of democratic rule of law. We want to raise general and professional awareness of public administration in democratic and legal values in society and actively enter into their creation. We cooperate with practitioners who have gained their expertise both in the Czech Republic and abroad. We create a bridge between Czech practice and experience from international institutions, which we adjust for the needs of the Czech public administration." I mean, things that we can all consider positive, and I think we'd agree pretty well on them. So let's see what he says about the matters relating to the Civil Service Act, Mr. Lukáš Wagenknecht 30. 1. 2014 and what he writes in terms of views that Minister Jiří Dientsbier called total nonsense yesterday. I quote from the article: "The service law has become a hit of the last few days. From the debate in the House, it might seem that his alpha and omega is the abolition of the illustrations." - Please note that this is a quote from the end of January, when this topic was very discussed. "The condition of the President for the appointment of the Government may have been the failure of the actual substance of the Service Act, following the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU the second most fundamental changes in the administration of the state. The Service Act is a great debt of Czech politicians, we have been waiting for it for 25 years. We hope that it will contribute to improving the quality of the state administration. How to achieve this quality? The most common answer is that we must depoliticize the state administration. But isn't that demagogy? Politicians will not affect the operation of administrative offices; they will be decided by super-officials instead. But it won't be them super-officials who will be appointed political director of the state service? There is no other way, except that we would vote for the officials directly in the referendum. Depoliticized is a delightful contradiction. Especially for a society that has lost confidence in politics. But democracy cannot exist without politicians. Otherwise, what good would an election be? President Masaryk already said that if democracy has its shortcomings, we should overcome the shortcomings, but not democracy. By handing over power to a small group of unelected officials, we do not solve shortcomings. On the contrary, we are diverting ourselves from democracy to technocracy." I'm just reminding you, it's an addition to what Minister Dientsbier said yesterday. The General Directorate's problem is total nonsense, talking about the super office is absurd. As you can see, not all, not even those who are part of today's coalition, have this view as much as the right-wing opposition does. I will continue to quote an article from the Lidové noviny: "The state administration will only be better if we focus on addressing its shortcomings. The Czech government is not politicized but privatised. By transferring powers from politicians to super-officials, we will not solve this problem. The puppeteers and godfathers will pull the strings further." I'll add that maybe those who are in these puppeteers and godparent positions will change a little bit when the state administration is single-colored, as the current proposal, which Minister Dientsbier supports so much, is establishing. Mr Lukáš Wagenknecht continued: We should learn abroad. The Staff Law and the proposed amendment by the Member Teaks were inspired in France. There's supposed to be one super official at every ministry - the Secretary of State. Should France be a role model for us? If we look at the competitiveness charts, we will start to doubt very much. We shrug even more when we realize that France is a half-president system. And is France really a symbol of order and order that we miss so much? In the Czech Republic, we have parliamentary democracy with a proportional electoral system. Let us not mix apples with pears and inspire ourselves with countries that have a similar system. For example, there are no super-officials in Germany. There are more state secretaries in each ministry who share their work according to their expertise. [[Our Deputys]] These deputy ministers are run by the minister and not by a super official without democratic legitimacy. Besides, there are clear rules. Only an experienced official may become Secretary of State. There's no way the ministers are bringing their friends to the Ministry. A second example may be the Netherlands, where the Minister is the top manager of the Office.' It is clear here that an important member of the current coalition, Mr. First Deputy Minister of Finance, has a completely different view of what is being put forward here. How, then, can one of the coalitions - so that I do not quote Prime Minister Dienstbier for the tenth time - be surprised that the opposition has a different opinion on this matter? It is an opinion that, in our view, is very legitimate, deserves discussion and deserves to look for some kind of penetration of how not to do something that, after the next elections or post-elections, will once again come to an exchange of political Garnitures so that it will be disturbed and started from the start, as we are witnessing in some things today. [[9.20 hours]] I will finish the quote, just a short time later: "Any service law" - says Lukáš Wagenknecht - "the state administration itself will not improve. On the contrary, bad service laws can make things worse. We can't go from one extreme to another and instead of the undisturbed Czech government, we can't go to a technocratic superofficer built on a half-president system that we don't have in our country." Signed by Lukáš Wagenknecht, Chairman of the Think Tank Good Government, 30. 1st of this year, just before it became part of today's coalition wider government Garniture. I would also like to say something more about the structure of Good Government, so that it is clear that this is a structure which the current coalition is not far from. Good Government held a conference last year in October 2013, which was dedicated to Czech society and that good governance is not coming, of course. The announcement of the conference said that "if the Czech society has developed more than stormy over the past 20 years, the management of its country's belongings should also be developed no less dynamically, especially when it comes to governance. In close association with the continuing development of civil society, with the boom of digital age technology, the growing need for modernization and the development of good governance can also be monitored in the expanding geopolitical context of development." I think it's possible to sum up the proper administration of mine. even in the idea that good governance includes a proper discussion of matters and a search for consensual procedures, which, when I have already quoted how the German government works, as well as among others. culture in Germany is based, like in the quoted Netherlands, on a high degree of consensus and not on the fact that the current government guarantee or any government guarantee will push through its ideas in a brutal way and will try to fix them for a very long time. That Good Government is not an organization that is born and dies and has a life of poison, it can be demonstrated on the list of speakers who have been to this conference and who are certainly trustworthy persons not only for the nation but also for the current coalition. Vladimír Špidla, President of the European Movement, was present at this conference, which is close to Good Government. It characterized the declining competitiveness of the Czech Republic, accompanied by a lack of long-term country strategy. He said: The Czech Republic is unable to follow any long-term strategy. There is no Czech policy that is conceptual in any of its subsystems. A specific example is a valid but ineffective law on civil service, which is replaced by failed, poor-quality, quick-sewn and dysfunctional solutions. As a result, the operational level of governance is political, not professional and conceptual. At the same time, the fact that strategic issues are addressed in power and not in political debate, to build good governance. Another speaker at this conference was Lukáš Wagenknecht. I will not further develop his performance. Edvard Outrata, Vice-President of the Senate, spoke at the conference and placed the context of good governance in a historic field trip. With the historic establishment and execution of public administration during the 19th century, it gradually crystallized the consciousness of a different nature of politics, i.e. politicians, and administrations, i.e. Officials. The main reason for distinguishing politicians and officials is that both groups represent two distinct parts of the state's functioning and therefore must be equipped with different skills and competences. The lack of interest in the separation of politics and administration, seen in the Czech context since the beginning of the 1990s, leads to a reduction in the quality of administration. There is currently no difference between executive politicians and executive civil servants. The Czech public is more concerned with the negative phenomenon of the non-functionality of state administration than with its systemic changes and adequate scope with the associated competences. It brings us back to the problem of why the right-wing opposition criticizes the super-office, criticises the very close coherence of the government's office and the Directorate-General of the proposed state administration, and why we criticize in particular the way in which the positions in the government are to be filled, how quickly this is to take place and how long the whole new situation is to be fixed with us. To keep me here for a while, I quote the last speaker who is close to Good Government, the well-known David Ondráčka, director of the Czech Transparency International branch, as I'm sure you all know him well. David Ondráčka sees as a fundamental problem that, after 23 years, the Czech Republic lacks an idea of where this company is supposed to go and where it wants to go. He described the current situation as "a broken society and a sick policy. " In the example of Reconstruction of the State, he presented the possibilities of a nonprofit sector to promote the principles of good governance. He pointed out that although the concept of good governance in the Czech boiler has not yet taken hold, warning of the negatives is the first, important step. The political newsroom case has brought about a qualitative shift. The existence of external pressure on the problem of nomination of politicians into state companies can contribute to a change in established non-discriminatory practice. Once again, if you did not pay attention to the last sentence: The existence of external pressure on the problem of nomination of politicians into state companies can contribute to the change of established non-transparable practice. I think that after almost three quarters of a year since this performance by David Ondráčka, we have witnessed how various positions in state firms are re-enlisting today and how different current politicians are putting people close to each other there, even though Transparency International and the entire State Reconstruction initiative were a matter to which the current coalition declared itself and collaborated and was prepared to make the Civil Service Act to suit. And by the time I've finished with David Ondráčka, let me move on to the third point of my performance, which represents the position of the State of Reconstruction on the amendment to the Service Act. We come from the past period, from 2013 and early 2014, to the current days. I think you have all been given a statement by the State's reconstruction of the amendment to the Service Act. It's dated 15. Seven, about two weeks ago. [[9.30 hours]] The accompanying letter states: Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the State Reconstruction Platform allow you to send comments on the proposed amendment to the Service Act, as approved by the Constitutional Committee. We are aware of the need for the adoption of a service law in connection with commitments to the European Union, on the other hand, because of the non-standard legislative process - please repeat: a non-standard legislative process, or it is not something that an evil and hostile opposition would invent - because of the non-standard legislative process, it is threatening that the law will soon have to be amended. The Working Group of Reconstruction of the State evaluates this proposal in the light of this neutral manner and points out the need for its subsequent completion. I just remind you that I joined those who suggested that the law be returned to second reading, that it should be discussed again, sought, as is the custom in Germany and Holland, a compromise was sought corresponding to the current relationship between the coalition and the opposition, but at least some consensus, and that it would not be a unilateral dictatorship, which the coalition claims by criticizing it, thus creating nonsense, but which other people other than opposition consider to be a law that is bad. I would also like to quote further from this point of view the reconstruction of the state, because it needs to be recalled. It's been mentioned here, but the letter was kind of swept under the table with the fact that the reconstruction of the state is an incomprehensible institution and has different opinions and can be seen by different opinions. So here the position was quite unambiguous during the reconstruction of the state and was signed among other things by the quoted David Ondráčka: The reconstruction of the State compared the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the amendment to the Service Act with the parameters in the statement of support for the Reconstruction of the State. The proposal's comment was also a basis for a round table with the participation of opponents with experience from public administration and members of the Working Group Reconstruction of the State, which contributed to the formulation of the assessment of the amendment. The Working Group of the State, in agreement with its opponents, concluded that the draft law presented cannot ensure the professionalisation of the state administration. [[Reconstruction]] - That's the state I said about Wednesday at the beginning of this speech, that I consider it even more important than depoliticizing the state administration. It is simply because the professionalism of some of our officials does not really correspond to the fact that it is to be top experts in ministerial offices who shape things in individual departments so that they develop well in this country, whether they are meant right-wing or not. I continue to quote from this point of view Reconstruction of the State: Unfortunately, the proposal does not correspond to a number of parameters and principles contained in the statement of support Reconstruction of the State as we explain in detail below, especially as regards stability and openness of the state administration. Another part of the essential parameters, such as the regulation of whistleblowing, cannot be evaluated as they are to be regulated under the law, which we consider inappropriate and unjustified, given the detail in which the proposal deals, for example, with the title of civil servants or the reconciliation of work and personal life. The fundamental problem is the question of remuneration, with which the authors do not expect more reform within a period of two years. Even if we optimistically assume that quality innovation will actually take place, the temporary model of remuneration reduces the financial value of young people with higher education, as the scale is abolished and emphasis is placed only on seniority. This will make the government even less attractive financially for young people. At the same time, the proposal practically concludes the entry into the state administration of experienced professionals and experts from other sectors. New officials will only be allowed to act as a reporter and head of department, including former officials who have gone to European or international institutions, with the exception of the European Commission. In addition, during the first year, selection procedures are to take place for superiors. It will be chosen only from existing officials without a new remuneration adjustment. This threatens formalistic implementation of these competitions and threatens the implementation of the law. The proposal resigns from the reform of systematicisation, nor is the new systematicisation supported by any audit of agendas or similar analysis. The proposal will not ensure the conditions for meeting the declared objective of increasing the efficiency of the administration's performance, its stability and professionalism, rather preserving it. The speed of adoption is at the expense of its quality and long-term sustainability. It is a real threat that the law will soon be amended. The proposal for a comprehensive amendment is prepared without the involvement of the opposition. - Please, says David Ondráčka, I repeat: The proposal for a comprehensive amendment is prepared without the involvement of the opposition. There is no wider expert debate, only to consult selected groups. Such a systemal and fundamental legal standard should be passed through a standard legislative process, including a substantive intention, an assessment of the impact of regulation and external commentary procedures. Financial impact analysis is also missing. The proposal for a comprehensive amendment is not accompanied by an amendment law which is yet to be prepared. So much, among other things, Transparency International and David Ondráčka. I would like to stress that this third part of my speech should not have been the promotion of Transparency International. Of course, we have a number of reservations about the activities of this organization and the pressure it has been making. We would also discuss a number of things that the organisation has mentioned, and we would not agree on everything, but basically the whole principle described here demonstrates that the opposition is right, that it is simply the announcement by Minister Dienstbier, which I have quoted here, that everything is nonsense, that the opposition is suspected of acting purposefully, it is simply not true, and it is another one of the sets of opinions that proves it. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for speaking so long. It's not just because we want to surround here, but it's because we just consider this thing extremely serious, and also obstruction from the current opposition is not a commonly used tool. At the end of my speech, in my fourth point, which will be really brief, I will say the last argument that I find very interesting from the current history so much that it is worth demonstrating here, that it really shows that with this depoliticization it is so that the discussion of a rather violent nature here in the Chamber of Deputies is not self-effective this time by the opposition, but it may be a bit self-effective from the coalition, which has decided that all that the opposition wants to supplement and what it criticizes, that it simply overwhelms and does it its own. [[9.40 hours]] That last quote will be from 17. 7. last Thursday, from Mladá fronta Today, presented by author Václav Dolejší, who quite long from various sources, including coalitions, describes what happened behind closed doors when it came to selecting the Euro Commissioner for the Czech Republic. And because we already know that Minister Jourová has been chosen today - and she will certainly be a good representative and congratulate her on this, which I will be able to do, because I have not yet had the opportunity to do so - so I will no longer discuss how the negotiations took place here, it is a closed matter. But the last Gloss of Václav Dolejší concerns the Civil Service Act and is very short. He writes: "Let us return to Tuesday's domestic negotiations. Allegedly, according to the Mladá fronta Today, negotiators also tried political trade. One party will receive the Euro Commissioner, the other in return for the future post of head of state service.' I think it does not need any further comment, in the end the comment has already been made by the President of ODS Fiala and is also recorded in the article Václav Dolejší and it is also worth repeating. Petr Fiala says: "This clearly shows that positions are more important for government parties for their own members than the interests of Czech citizens. The Coalition assures us for several months that it will act unitedly and always in the interests of the Czech Republic on European issues, but it does not," Petr Fiala says. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for performing here for so long. I am not so often in the House to discuss and to speak to medical questions, but I really could not forgive myself for this. Especially in the context of what I was talking about today at the beginning, that a significant opponent says that the problems we have with the CEO are total nonsense that talking about the super-office is absurd and that the obstruction of the opposition is probably self-effective. I tried to convince you that none of this is true, and thank you very much for your long-term attention. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u7	Before Minister Jourová comes forward, Mr Jandák's point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u8	[[He's starting to talk off the mic.]] I'm sorry I hurt the Minister, but she's a little concerned, ladies and gentlemen. You know, we're Members of Parliament curious, especially the simple Members, which is why sometimes we do lapsus, and I'm afraid Roman will kick me out of the club. But I'm still gonna ask. Because we heard 16 here. 7. And that's actually why we're sitting here. On 16. 7. we have heard from Minister Jourová that the law is necessary until 1. 1. And yesterday I happened to watch TV and there I learned it wasn't necessary! And I felt a little sorry for Minister Heger for wasting his words and thoughts here, which is why I would like to ask you what it is. Because we don't know. So it is necessary, or there is no need for it to be by 1. One? Madam Secretary, if you would be so kind as to answer my question. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u9	Thank you for keeping the time, and the Minister has already been enrolled in the debate and will certainly answer your question in his speech. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems now that we are well-directed by Stanislavský - a dramatic introduction - and now I have the opportunity to say what I really wanted to say without being called upon by Mr Jandák. On 16. 7. I said this here: "As the Czech Republic, we have an obligation to bring the Civil Service Act to 1. 1. to be effective. This commitment is in the Partnership Agreement. And I don't know if I agree with all of you, but for me, the commitment I give to someone, this partner, who is the European Union, is a stronger imperative than the ultimatum that this partner would give me. So we have this commitment in the partnership agreement. I stand firm for the words I have said here 16. 7. Yesterday, my words were, in a short way, shifted to an interpretation that I did not wish for. For this is what I said: "If negotiations on the service law get complicated and threaten to get us through 1. 1. 2015, we have to deal with the European Commission." There is a sentence: "I would not personally want this very much, precisely because of the commitment, but we will have to open the negotiations, explain to the European Commission how it looks with the process of approving the service law. And, of course, I hope we come to a consensus." That, ladies and gentlemen, is a permanent negotiation. It's not like we have a hard date and we have to fulfill under some kind of ultimatum. But again, I feel that commitment is very strong. What threatens us if we are unable to negotiate a delay? And I'm saying again, I don't want it. We are therefore subject to the approval of operational programmes, which are subsidy programmes, which should already finance specific projects. So that's how it stands. I wanted to get off here and thank you for the opportunity. So once again quite clearly: this is how we have a commitment in the Partnership Agreement - to 1. 1. 2015 effectiveness of the Service Act, by the end of 2015 implementing its provisions. And we have it in the records of the various meetings and personal meetings without a record that I was personally present with. I hereby repeat again what I said 16. 7. Yesterday I said, "We're gonna have to act if it turns out that the deadline won't be feasible." But I firmly believe it will be. I would very much like that. But we cannot wait, we who are responsible for the negotiations, and this is, above all, Minister Dienstbier, who is discussing this, it is not quite in the first line of my business. In short, we need to be prepared for this option and our partners in the European Commission to prepare for it. And detect solutions. So, once again, I would very much like to appeal to the Chamber of Deputies for a term of 1. 1. they took very seriously, because this is our commitment, which we repeat over the long term and transmit as clear information towards the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u11	The Minister's appearance provoked a series of facts. First, President Stanjura, then Mr Jandák. [[Mr Stanjur:]] You prefer Mr Jandák. Please, so, Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u12	Thank you, colleague, for the gesture. That's gonna get me in even more trouble. But I'm not a sniper. I, of course, admire the Minister, but I would nevertheless like to quote exactly what she said: "It is quite clear both from a number of official and informal negotiations with representatives of the European Commission, from the Directorate of Employment and from the Directorate of Regio, that the Commission insists that the law in the Czech Republic be effective to 1. 1." Enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u13	Mr Stanjura and then Mr Black, the de facto Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would say to Mr Jandák by your means, Mr President - both are true. And I will return it from Brussels to the Czech Republic. Oh, yeah. [[unintelligible]] Our government has made a socialist commitment that it will be by 1. 1. Commissioner, apparently those leaving, they agreed. Now you're saying Minister Dienstbier is negotiating. I wonder which commissioner. If he's already packing his bags, or if he already knows who's coming? But that's not important. Let us discuss what the Czech Republic needs. Not if somebody sent a commitment to Brussels. [[9.50 hours]] And speaking of the European Union pushing us, we are also part of the European Union. I believe that we are able to adopt a good law to apply from 1 January, but not because we have sent a commitment to Brussels and now we have to comply with it. We could have negotiated this. When the new head of the Commission wanted support from the Czech Republic, our Prime Minister could negotiate it with him: we will support you and for this we want such a small thing, give us time so that we can discuss it properly so that the law is good. Maybe he tried, maybe he didn't try, maybe he tried, maybe he succeeded, maybe he failed. But let's not be afraid of Brusel all the time! Let us be confident and say that we want a good law for the Czech Republic and for citizens who will go to the authorities and who will do the service - we always call the service. And do we really think today is always a service? It's not often. Often a citizen seems to be harassing authorities or officials. And that's what we want to change. If we make it by January 1st - I think we can make it, that we're not under any great time pressure - it'll be just fine. But let us do this for our citizens and not because a few of the chosen Euro Commissioners want it, and they write it to us somewhere, and others give them some commitment that we will certainly, comrades, fulfil it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u15	A real comment by Mr. Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, dear government, I've taken the facts and then I'll erase myself because I've had it for, like, two minutes all along, and before I could get to it... [[from the order entered into the debate]] This is where the words about who might have accepted it came out, didn't accept who wanted to accept it, or didn't want to accept it. It's in the past. The present and future that is is about the proposal that is now being made and whether it is an ultimatum or whether it is a commitment. I think that, even if the work started to be done at this point, this law could be completed so that a commitment can be fulfilled and, above all, a really good service law, which is certainly the case for the European Commission. It's already been proposed here on Wednesday as a motion to return to second reading. I'd like to do it again. Dawn gives a procedural motion to vote to return to second reading so that this law can be completed. I'm begging you, because it sounded from all sides that the law was wrong, so you could support it so we could work on it and make the date that we're still talking about. I think it is really better to create a good law that will have efficiency, will be professional and will fulfill what it is intended for, than to make this law a disgrace not only to us, the Czech Republic, but mainly not to fulfill what it has, and to become an asshole who will have to change. It has almost 90 amendments at the moment, which I think is a testimony in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Just for the record. It is not possible to propose anything within the factual point, but since the proposal has already been made here, I take it as a support for the proposals that have fallen here, by the way, from President Okamura. Now with priority rights, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to interrupt the debate on this amendment to the Civil Service Act, because it is definitely important. I just want to point out that we already have a law here in the Czech Republic. We have a Civil Service Act here, and it will be fully effective from 1 January next year, honourable Members. So this isn't about some race with the European Commission. The Civil Service Act will be here from January 1st next year. If there are critical opinions about him, critical comments, then I ask why in the past seven or even twelve years, when the law is here, it has never been changed. Why colleagues and colleagues from ODS and from TOP 09 did not come forward with a proposal to change the Civil Service Act at the time when they had a comfortable majority here in the Chamber of Deputies with Public Affairs. I think there's been a lot of opportunities here. The Civil Service Act will apply from 1 January next year, and the whole discussion is only whether we will change the law by then, whether we will modify it by then as the Chamber of Deputies. The government is of the opinion that this would be appropriate, for example, in view of the possibilities of the state budget, because the law, if it enters into force, as it is at the moment approved and as it is valid, will mean somewhat higher demands on the state budget than if we now approved this amendment to the law. When Members of the right-wing parties speak for the ODS and the TOP 09 in particular, it is strange how all of a sudden there is a lack of regard for budgetary responsibility. There is always talk about the fact that the amendment is poor quality, that it concretes the government, but I miss the argument of right-wing Members who so often call for budgetary responsibility, the argument of budgetary implications. You know very well, honourable Members of the ODS and honourable Members of the TOP 09, that if your efforts to obstruct will be successful, the amendment will not start to apply and the existing applicable law will apply, which will have far greater implications for the state budget than if this amendment were approved. And I'm asking, where did your budgetary responsibility go in this obstruction? Where did the modest approach to the spending of the state, which, at least theoretically, here in the Chamber of Deputies, are you promoting rhetorically? I don't know where he went, but I want to make it clear that this amendment is more gentle for the state's spending than if the existing law, which is currently approved, is not yet fully effective. Note No 2. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a new thing at all. The government of Petr Nečas and Minister of Finance, Miroslav Kalousek, has already faced the issue of the Civil Service Act in connection with negotiations with the European Commission. Mr Stanjura here recommends to the government that it be brave to stand up to the Commission, to oppose the Commission, now it is an excellent moment, because we have missed the whole year and we will not have exhausted the euro, but this is the first year of the new financial perspective, and now it is the approval of operational programmes, partnership agreements and, of course, everyone in Europe is in a hurry to start drawing European money as soon as possible. And now, according to Mr Stanjura, is the best time to start arguing about the form of the Civil Service Act. But, Mr President, when you recommend such bravery to the government, I ask why you were not so brave and determined when you were in government. I want to remind you of the words of your own finance minister in your coalition government, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. When information came out in spring 2013, the European Commission insisted on improving the quality of public administration when information came out that the European Commission could delay the use of European money, and the Czech Republic could lose up to 500 billion from 2014. CZK, it was the spring of 2013, so your government then approved an amendment to the Civil Service Act and your Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek commented on this in the following way: "The legislative process of delaying negotiations and the upcoming holidays will be delayed. The Government is therefore considering the possibility that the Chamber of Deputies could meet in an extraordinary way to start discussing this in June.' - I stress that the Chamber of Deputies has come together to discuss this in June. - "Not out of the question," said your Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek, "that we will have to use the Institute of Emergency Meeting, but that is not unusual in the legislative process." My question is, now that you recommend to the government the bravery to defy the pressure of Brussels not to pass that disgusting Civil Service Act, why weren't you so brave? Why don't I read something like that in your Treasury Secretary's statement from your coalition government? It was your coalition government! You voted in favour of these bills, so don't distance yourself from the Minister of Finance Kalousek now! He was your finance minister, and that's when he said what I read here. And please tell me that's not true. Tell me you didn't consider calling an emergency meeting back then, that you didn't want to rush in terms of the approval of the Civil Service Act a year ago. Of course, you were in a hurry because you knew you had a big problem that could delay drawing funds from the European Union. And that is what we are discussing today, among other things. But it should not only be linked to the issues of drawing funds from the European Union. That is one of the aims of this law, only one of the objectives. More important is the depoliticisation of the state administration in our country. And I would also like to remind my colleagues and maybe ask them to look into the electoral programmes of their own political parties. I looked into them. I know that even the ODS had in its electoral program that it wanted to approve the Civil Service Act. A number of Members and Members have joined the Declaration of the State Reconstruction Initiative before the elections and have stated that they will support the adoption of the Civil Service Act after the elections. [[10.00 hours]] This isn't about Brussels, this isn't about the European Commission. This is about finally completing the reform of the state administration in our country and implementing a step that is absolutely necessary - depoliticizing the state administration. And let's talk about how we can do these things. We, as a government, do not defend ourselves from action. For today, I have asked all the representatives of the parliamentary political parties to come together to discuss the continuation of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, to discuss how we can proceed, if there is any agreement that can be reached to block this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. But please, let us use the debate that awaits us, the true arguments, the relevant arguments, let us not pretend that the problem has emerged today with the drawing of funds from the European Union, which the previous government also had. And note one last. It is clear that if we do not have the Civil Service Act approved, we will not move further from the point of view of approving individual operational programmes. I very much wish that from the spring of next year, municipalities, regions, cities, civil associations, entrepreneurs could apply for subsidies from the European Union's programmes. This is important for economic growth, which is important for employment. It's not about draining European money. It's often said - we have to speed it up to drain the money. But it is important that we support economic growth in our country with this money to promote employment. If we delay this now, the whole process, and the operational programmes will not be approved in the autumn of this year, we will lose one whole construction season in the Czech Republic as part of the drawing of European funds. And that, of course, will be a big mistake. That's why the pressure. Not for the European Commission, but for our citizens, for our companies, for employment, for jobs in the Czech Republic. Therefore, the pressure of the Czech Government to reach the end of negotiations with the Commission, so that we can have approved operational programmes and start launching calls for money so that entities from the Czech Republic can start applying for this money after the New Year. Now, tell me the alternative. Is there an alternative to delaying? Extendance? So we're gonna move the challenges again? We're gonna lose after 2014, which we've already lost in draw, so we're gonna lose 2015? Are we gonna lose two years in total? And then at the end of the day, we don't have time to drain the money? Is this an alternative offered by the opposition? This is no reasonable alternative for our country. Yes, we are ready to act as a government coalition, but don't ask us to forget about the serious tasks that every government has here, that is, to handle the basic issues of drawing funds from the European Union so that there is no delay, so that there is no threat to economic growth in our country. This requires the law to apply on 1 January next year, and it does not matter what any official of the European Commission has said about it. It doesn't matter what the last finance minister Kalousek said about it in your right-wing coalition government. What is important now is the future, and the future from the point of view of drawing funds from the European Union, because it is 500 billion that can go into investment and that can go into promoting economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u19	I now have five factual points. First Mr Stanjura, then Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u20	Well, it took 12 minutes, it could take two minutes, I'll try to respond in at least two minutes to some of the Prime Minister's stuff. I understand that the left-wing coalition government solves similar serious problems as the right-wing coalition government has dealt with, and we are in agreement on that. You're not listening to us. We have been saying all along that our purpose is to adopt a good law, not to delay and not to accept that law. First of all. If your minister, who found a job for a while, Jiří Dienstbier, had written it properly, we wouldn't be here to worry about it, but this piece is just worse than the 2002 law. By the way, we didn't vote for him! We know that it has worse budgetary implications than that part of Mr Dienstbier, and our aim is not for the 2002 law to apply for which we have not voted. And the Prime Minister was then... Mr President, if you can get me in order, it makes it hard for me to talk when they're right behind me. [[The chairman of the club Faltynek spoke with the Minister of Finance Babiš]] . Thank you. I only have two minutes. [[The President: It's quieted itself.]] Thank you. The Prime Minister is very opposed. First of all, we haven't ruled for 13 months - it still begins with you being here. In the last eight years, we haven't ruled seven, but six years. But he said, "You didn't do anything for it!" - to say in two minutes: "Let me quote Kalousek, you sent a bill to the House and even considered an extraordinary meeting." So what's the deal? Have we done nothing, or have we considered an emergency meeting? He can't pay both. You have to choose. You yourself and your government, or the government in which you were sitting, have proposed a delay in your 2002 law, which you voted for, and which you are warning about today. And I agree with you on that. You have even accepted our argument, and it is very good, I really appreciate that we do not do this law because of Brusel, but because of the citizens of the Czech Republic. We're in agreement on that. We think it can be done, only Jiří Dienstbier must not constantly enforce what he wrote so badly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u21	Mr. Benda. He's downloading? [[Ambassador Benda cancels his application.]] Then, in fact, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, again. You're saying something here, we haven't heard from you or the processor, the substitute processor - that's what Minister Dienstbier is for me, because it's supposed to do, in my opinion, the Interior Minister, this agenda - so even from the substitute processor I heard about 14 days ago in some performance, which he now has for tens or hundreds, that within a week will be known to quantify the costs of this amendment of the law. So, to this day, there has been no number, only a political declaration that it is neutral. Of course, we do not want the law to come into force from 1 January, one that is valid for it to enter into force, of course, at the time the costs estimated were some, but the world has changed, and there was no number from you. I don't want you blackmailing us here with employment, and I think that if you start going around and telling people how many TVs and refrigerators they have at home, you're gonna hire half the nation, the other one's gonna wrap everything up or run away from a democracy like this. So I don't think that's the place. And we call on you to negotiate to correct the law. The way he is, he's pointless. Nothing more and nothing less. I don't know why you're acting like this. You are not even able to tell the House, and now, not even a nation, so what is true, what the European Commission requires, you exchange opinions through the media, you insult your own party members, you insult each other, you question their performances, so I just don't know what you want to tell us here. [[unintelligible]] We invite you and call you to the negotiating table so that the law is reworked so that Mr Dienstbier does not constantly assert his ego here - I hope it is the last one and you are the second-to-last one who insists on this version of the law - [[Time, colleague.]] So please, the last sentence. The Minister of Finance said that this country is run by an idiot. I quite agree with him, but for a few weeks, we may still be different in time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u23	Another factual point, Mr Černoch, will be prepared by Mr Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u24	Thank you. Here came the Prime Minister's questions of financial difficulty, and I would like to ask if anyone is able to say at this desk and microphone right now how much money it's really going to cost, because this information has never been said anywhere, at least I haven't found it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u25	Thank you, too. And Mr. Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u26	Beautiful morning, ladies and gentlemen, I greet you from this speaking desk. I would like to follow up on the Prime Minister's words, which he said here: we need depoliticism here. But with this depoliticization, we give a huge opportunity and increase the powers of future officials, and it may turn out that they will be irrevocable and that there will be a new bureaucratic nobility. So let us consider - and there may also sometimes be a moment when Parliament is found to be useless here, because Parliament does not only have a legislative position, but it also has a control position. From nature, we evaluate ourselves by calling ourselves homo sapiens, a man who thinks. Please, let us consider burying this House here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u27	Yes, and indeed, Minister Dienstbier wants to respond, then with priority rights, Mr Stanjura and Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u28	I would only briefly respond to questions about the financial complexity of the options we have here. When we talk about the proposed bill, the settlement is called. jumps in the range, i.e. taking into account the degrees granted on the basis of the practice that the civil servants have, so according to the interim calculations from the Ministry of Finance will cost next year and, of course, the next years will cost half a billion crowns. It is with the tolerance of tens of millions of crowns at this time, because the exact figures are still being calculated. This means that what is now being presented here is an additional financial claim to the state budget of about half a billion. If we talk about nothing being approved and the original 211/2002 Coll. will become effective, then we are talking about a minimum but minimum financial intensity of 5 billion. CZK, which would probably go above all to 25% of the public service surcharge, i.e. basically increasing the tariff claims of civil servants in the form of this surcharge. So much for the financial side. And I would like to assure President Stanjuru that I myself, of course, did not write any law. I've been describing the procedure here. There was a coalition group that negotiated in the smallest detail the bills from a factual point of view and an eight-member legislative group that wrote the bill. And not only coalition, but we have also worked on some things on the basis of the many negotiations that we have had with the opposition. For example, we came to Mrs Kovářová from the point of view of self-government to the public service, so this work is collective, and even not only coalition, but also partial, with the opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u29	One more point in fact, Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u30	I would like to thank the Minister for answering that question. And I want to say at dawn, for us, that we really want the service bill, we support it. It's not a boycott, it's not an obstruction for nothing. But we want the law to really work, to be for people and to be effective and professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u31	I do not register any further factual comments, therefore with priority rights, the President of the ODS and then the President representing the Chairman of the TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u32	I apologize to my colleagues for performing 13 minutes later than we agreed at the meeting this morning. I'm sorry. I think that if the Prime Minister hadn't made a number of factual comments and had the right to do so, I would have made it. So I'm so sorry. I'm fulfilling the deal I announced this morning. I'm requesting a 90-minute recess at our club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u33	Yes, and I will give the floor to the President of the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we have not reached another way of discussing the negotiations that the Prime Minister has called, I just want to say to you here that the TOP 09 will then take another 90 minutes' break. Or how much is it? 76 minutes - make it to 13 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u35	Yes. Now, the chairman of the ODS club has modified the time data a little bit, anyway, let's agree that two clubs have requested a break in one hour, so let's be clear. So I'm gonna interrupt the meeting and we'll meet again at 1:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-01-ps2013-012-07-001-025.u36	Beautiful afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a message that will surely please you. On the basis of the agreement of the club presidents, I am interrupting today's negotiations by Friday 8 August 9.00 when we will continue the programme. Thank you and have a nice summer days.
