ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and on the Amendment of Some Other Acts, as amended /German press 153/4/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House press 153/5. I welcome Senator Petr Vícha among us. I ask that the Senator speak for the plaintiffs of the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled. I'll ask Senator Vícha. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u2	vážený President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u3	I'm sorry, Senator. I will ask the honourable fellow Member and the honourable Member to leave this hall. The others, please, let's hear from the senator. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, it is a great honour for me to be able to speak in the Chamber of Deputies. You know best how hard it is to get here. The time is advanced, yet I cannot be completely brief, because the waste law is a rather important issue. So let me return briefly to how this law came about. At the beginning, there was a rather inconspicuous amendment to a group of senators, which wanted to adopt a generally binding decree that municipalities could disrupt waste collections. Even in the Senate itself, this amendment did not receive majority support. The procedure was found to be too drastic and we only sent a proposal to the House that the regional authorities should be able to revoke the authorisation issued by the assembly at the time of the first finding of the infringement. This law has been passed to the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber of Deputies has added much more important things to him, and it is worth recalling. It is the determination of the time of 2024, until it is possible to store waste at landfills. This is a rather important matter, much more important than the authority of regional authorities to break up collections. This law also included a matter concerning technological security of landfills and restrictions of 20 percent. The last important thing was the introduction of an obligation for municipalities from 1. 1. 2015 separate biodegradable waste as well as metals. And so, in this version, it was passed on to the Senate. I would like to say here that the Senate, although there was quite a heated discussion on these matters - why not 2023, why not 2024, why not 2025, whether it is not necessary to determine what waste will not be stored in the landfill after that date, because even waste, which will pass through eventually incinerator, will have to be stored somewhere. There was also a discussion about technological security of landfill and biodegradable waste, given that municipalities have relatively little time to secure from 1. 1. its separation, too. I would like to remind you here that the Senate did not intervene in any of the things that the Chamber of Deputies added to the Senate amendment, and everything remained there. As the Senate was lenient with the procedure that the Chamber of Deputies had chosen, I would ask that the Chamber of Deputies be lenient with what the Senate added. When it is stored to municipalities from 1. 1. the obligation to separate metals, so there the Senate added an obligation for natural persons to deposit these metals free of charge and for natural persons undertaking and legal persons to submit this metal to collections to deposit it as a cash-free payment. It is an amendment to the Union of Towns and Municipalities, I admit this matter, and if with municipalities from 1. 1. imposes an obligation to separate metals so that the existing system cannot function. Maybe you'll argue why this is the way to deal with the matter, why the controls aren't working. So I'll tell you how the controls work today. We have a Czech trade inspection, which will carry out approximately 350 inspections per year, that is one check every day throughout the Czech Republic. The Czech Trade Inspection Authority mostly checks whether there are tinkled scales, if there is a crooked customer who is handing in scrap. Czech environmental inspections will carry out approximately the same number of inspections per year. This is one check daily throughout the Czech Republic. He's checking for oil leaks somewhere. Regional authorities issue authorizations, but they don't control anything at all. Business offices can check if the premises are marked. Ladies and gentlemen, I am of the opinion that the control system is not functioning in this Republic, and what is being placed in those collections is not controlled, and this is why this proposal is being approached. What second objection can be raised? This is not how it is dealt with in any country of the European Union. I heard that. It's not true. In many developed countries, such as Belgium, Austria, no one ever thinks that metals, like other wastes, would not be handed over to the collection yards of municipalities. It's just not worth it there. It may be said that the proposal is unconstitutional. I will say in advance that we have had Professor Gerloch's opinion processed with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and I quote one point from his five-page analysis: The very fact that non-business natural persons will not be able to obtain compensation for their waste is not unconstitutional, since there is no constitutionally guaranteed right to receive a payment for a thing that someone is getting rid of, and at the same time there is no obligation to get rid of it in a certain way. Therefore, this procedure is not unconstitutional. I heard an objection - why even paper? Why metals? Today, I spoke to a citizen about this, and I asked him: When you dispose of bulk waste, it is a valuable raw material for incinerators, no one pays you for it. I'm glad to get rid of him, of course. Thank you for that. I'm still paying for it. Now we're imposing an obligation to deposit biodegradable waste to municipalities. Those people are getting rid of the weed for free. People put plastics in containers these days. Do you know how much they pay for plastics? Seven to eight kroner a kilo. It's twice as much as iron, but it's a little lighter, more bulky. Nobody's saying he's handing it over for free. Little is paid for paper, of course more is paid for metals. [[21.00 hours]] Objection: Once in 20 years, I want to exchange heating in the house, so I want something for it. A large majority of citizens don't trade the heater themselves. It'll give it to the company, the company will restore it, reconstruct it. šrot will be handed over because it's not forbidden, and it'll be deducted from his price. This proposal we are presenting has the support of the Czech Railways and Railway Infrastructure Administration, which is understandable because they are causing billions of damage. This proposal has the support of the Police of the Czech Republic, as it deals with about 11 000 crimes related to theft of metals each year. This proposal has the support of the Road and Motorway Directorate. If you come to our house in Ostrava, on some bridges you will ride 60 because metal objects were stolen there. I could state relatively drastic cases of theft. And I firmly believe that this will not end in some dramatic event in the Czech Republic that will cost citizens their lives, and we will then blame ourselves for not doing anything about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that we may fail today in the House with this proposal, but I am absolutely sure that we will have to resolve this issue anyway. Let me remind you that this is how we desperately tried to solve lotteries year after year and eventually pushed for their restrictions. And I believe that the same will happen with these thefts of metal objects. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to support the Senate proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u5	I thank Senator Vích, and I would like to extend the opportunity for Senator Jaroslav Zeman to comment on the motion for a resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u6	Hello, Mr President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Senator Vícha was rather exhausting. I'm just going to say that in our poor regions, we are still plagued by the great crime of stealing metals. I hope you will approve of this, that we will return to the regions in peace and well, because I do not know what I would say to those fellow citizens that they will again lose channels, again they will lose gutters, urns in cemeteries. So I beg you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u7	Thank you, Senator Zeman. I ask if the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Josef Nekl, wishes to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. [[He doesn't want to.]] Not even Mr. Zemek. Thank you. So I am opening up a debate in which I first have three priority rights. Mr. President of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Mr. Okamura, came forward first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate has returned to us the Waste Act with an amendment which, in our view, is a crystalline demonstration of failure to address the root of the problems. Part of our citizens, and the smaller one, steals metals and sells them into raw materials. This is, of course, a serious problem that deserves a solution. But the Senate has offered us a solution that will affect everyone. I mean, even the decent ones. By prohibiting the purchase of secondary raw materials from all non-business decent citizens. In my opinion and in our opinion, citizens must not be reduced to their property rights. The system needs to be set up to give decent space to live decently and, on the contrary, limit only rudely, in any hard way. So that the decent don't bother. Imagine that you have iron, bronze, copper remnants in your garage or basement, for example, after cleaning or building completion. Today they are worth a thousand crowns. But by banning this material from buying money from you, the state will also deprive you of the thousand crowns! Of course, if we comply with the Senate proposal, you can hand over the waste free of charge in the collection yard, and then the profit will probably remain to the company that runs it. With the same logic, let's think about jewelry thieves or cars, or even cash thieves. After all, just take the Prague subway. Shouldn't we, then, forbid the purchase of gold or the car trade, by senate logic, because they're stealing? And the bills are being stolen! And the logic of the Senate suggests that the solution will be to hand over the bills free of charge in the collection yard! [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] And yet we would find tools to solve the cause, not the consequences. Firstly, any theft must be strictly prosecuted, as the basis is zero tolerance of crime and offenses, which is a task mainly for our police, but also for us, of course, for the legislator. Because the fact that we have crooks, thieves, and thugs of Eldorado in our country doesn't mean we can't solve that by treating decent people and punishing them for not being able to solve the law so that decent people have the upper hand. Take the Prague subway, ladies here holding their purses so they don't get robbed! In our own city, in our own country we are defensive and afraid to move at all! I remember, true, it was a very long time ago when I was until 1989 - and God forbid I would sing that regime, no way, but it happened to me that I fell asleep on the bench in the summer, that, and in the morning, you'll wake up and you'll just have your wallet and your things and you'll go on. Try it today! So the situation is different and a pity, I must say it's quite sad that citizens have actually got used to it. Citizens have become accustomed to the fact that the state does not protect them, that they basically do not have a defense. And it's become the standard that in our own city, in our own country, we're basically permanently worried about our own security. On the contrary, he who is not afraid is a thief. Again, the fact that the state can't deal with thieves forcefully can't be taken away by decent people! They're taking it enough because of the thieves! The next step, which is also a certain system solution, is work. Who plays is not angry, we know that from our children. Whoever works has less time and less motivation to steal. So let's go, Dear Government, and we're waiting for this, I've already called you here last time, I guess yesterday, let's create a real system program to create jobs in the Czech Republic! We have record unemployment, over 600 thousand. unemployed, eight percent! But I am still waiting here after a year, and we are waiting in Dawn, when the government will finally present a comprehensive concept of promoting job creation. We haven't heard a thing yet! Investment? Well, when the money springs dry, it's one-time support, it's nothing systemic. Systemic, for example, would be a tax reduction. That's what the designs were here, but they've already been rejected, haven't they? I don't mean drugs and diapers, that's where it's good, of course. So I say, of course, let's fight this poverty too! Let's finally bounce back a little bit systemically. Let's create that concept! I call on the government once again: Submit it, it is high time! Let's give these people a reason to... Please, Madam President, do not call on me to shorten my speech. [[Zelinkova]] I really am responsible to my own constituents, so... I know you'd like to do it twice ten minutes and not repeatedly, but the fact that there's nothing to say about most of the laws that I really don't care about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u9	Wait a minute! Mr Okamura, please address the lady by me. [[A Member of Okamura objects to his address.]] And I beg the lady not to shout to Mr Okamura, also through me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u10	I like the lady, but she's screaming at me. But I would really, folks, beg someone in the House to restrict me in my performances and dictate that I should shorten something. Really, you're following up on Mr. Komárek, who would like to silence us all here. And I really don't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u11	Mr. Ambassador, you can have it long in here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u12	I'd like the government coalition here to uphold the law. Please comply with the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which gives us, each Member, clear rights. So please don't challenge me here to break the law. And I have a right to law - I know that you might even go so far as to restrict me to legal rights. But please, let's not overdo it. I have the right to express myself as much as anyone, and unlimited. And I'm talking business. [[- That's right.]] So that's what I think. There. [[21.10 hours]] And the fact that citizens don't feel safe in our country is not the responsibility of decent citizens again. And frankly, we're standing here after 9:00! If you hadn't agreed to change the program every morning, we wouldn't be here at 21.10 but we're here at 8 o'clock!! And we'd save an hour. So don't blame this on us right now. I've got a broken arm here, and I'd like to be somewhere else by now, of course. [[Laughs in plenary and applause lightly.]] But to continue. Of course, the fact that citizens do not feel safe in this republic is not the fault of the decent ones, but it is not only because of the crooks and cheaters, but also because of the system's poor setting up in the last twenty years, when all the political parties who have been in government in 25 years have obviously participated in the system's poor setting. So, of course, a solution to this problem that we are discussing could also be preventive and effective tools directly in collections. If, of course, it were also the introduction of cameras in addition to the mandatory cash-free payment, and I have already suggested this, it already works in the exchange offices, while it would be true that without the record being purchased, the purchase must not be carried out. It would just be illegal. What wouldn't be on camera would just be illegal. And we wouldn't have to ban decent citizens from selling anything else, like jewelry or their used car, so they could sell it, of course. This means that for these reasons - and if the Member had not interrupted me here, I could have been finished by now, of course, if she had not tried to limit me in my legal rights. [[Laughing in plenary]] [[Laughing in plenary]] Thus the Dawn movement cannot support the Senate version of the law. He just can't. And I'm saying that from that point of view, which you might know who you're interested in, that the Ministry is currently preparing a comprehensive amendment to the Waste Act. So there's a complex amendment to the Waste Act, isn't there, Minister? I can address you directly from the Rules of Procedure Act. That means, we'd like to deal with it comprehensively, not with any of those moves between the Senate, and there's just some half-hearted solutions that limit the rights of decent citizens. And we would like to do it in Dawn because it needs to be addressed, really participated and worked on a system solution to the whole problem within the comprehensive amendment to the Waste Act, which is now coming up. With regard to the parliamentary proposal, if the Senate did not pass, then we will vote on the MP, so we originally wanted to vote for him, but in the third reading we did not vote for it finally before it went to the Senate, because we were very surprised by the label of Mr Oklešťek, who has now imposed a recyclable obligation on the municipalities, which, according to our information, will cause considerable costs to the municipalities! And all of a sudden, from 1. 1. 2015. That was quite a surprise, even though I supported Senator Zeman's proposal here, because the thefts really are a big problem, and that's stealing the material and they're doing it different, like, you, I'd say, inadaptable people. But it surprised us that suddenly this big change will come in here in the amendment. That means we'll stick with the MP if the Senate proposal doesn't pass. And again, it's not that úsvit doesn't want to deal with anything. We're against thieves, I think that's clear, the rhetoric is still the same, but we'd like to leave it to the comprehensive solution of the Minister, the Minister of Coalition, who is working on it. And here I think it could be absolutely perfect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u13	I thank Mr Okamur. Another with priority rights is the President of the Civic Democratic Party MEP Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u14	Thank you for the floor. A little -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u15	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. I haven't noticed two factual points between you. I'm so sorry, Mr. Chairman. If Mr. Schwarz will allow...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u16	This is to replace the President, but there are so few of you here that I am not suggesting anything, and I leave this place disciplinedly to come back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u17	Well, that's very nice of you to leave disciplinedly because there are really few of us. Thank you. Now, Mr Schwarz, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u18	Good evening again, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I don't know if my colleague Okamura is taking any pills on that broken arm, but I want them, too. [[Laughs in plenary.]] I would just like to say for the press, for the Senate proposal. In practice, I tried on how the controls work in our town. They don't work. I tried it on as a cop. The collections had a long time to face it, they could issue things, they could prevent shopping. I want to explain to you why I'm going to raise my hand for the Senate proposal. Because I don't think I see any other solution in certain regions. If he's ever better, I'll support him. But now that I've seen every day as a police officer on Mosteck 10, 20, 30 people who were unhappy about it, I'm not talking about technical services, sewers, I'm talking about gutters, these things that they were unhappy, like the cops had to say to them, why are you buying copper gutters? Don't take any, they'll steal it from you. That's how sad it is. That is why I will support this proposal. I know he's tough, but I don't see any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u19	I thank Mr Schwarz. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kučera, then Mr Holík, with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u20	[[Laughing in plenary, because a Member of Okamura, who had one hand tied, comes to the speaker's place, Mr Kučera, tied with both hands.]] Hello, thank you for your word. I am therefore not taking any pills, and I am also in good health through the President, Mr Okamura, with similar disabilities. [[Laughing in plenary]] [[Laughter.]] However, allow me to comment precisely on Mr Okamura's speech, which had such an inaccuracies there. When he described how he would find those copper castings in the garage and not be able to carry them to the collection room, he was wrong. In fact, he can't carry them to the rally if he doesn't have a trade certificate. But he may ask his wife, for example. A hairdresser with a trade certificate or an English teacher, and she can carry the slides to the collection room. And that's the paradox of the Senate proposal. I agree with my colleague Schwarz that the problem is absolutely dramatic in some regions, but the Senate proposal simply doesn't solve it, he's half-baked. And I think we should proceed to a comprehensive solution that I hope Minister Brabec will come up with in that comprehensive amendment to the Waste Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u21	I thank Mr Kučer. Mr Birke, Mr Holík after him, Mr Pilný after him, with factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm together for now. [[Laughter in plenary - no bandage.]] However, allow me to make a few comments. She's not that funny. And believe me. I'm looking at smiley faces. Those of you who are mayor or mayor, so trust me, it's often a great despair, depression, and a huge attack from normal people you can't answer. Because no answer is right. I understand that the Republic is divided into several categories, now please in quotation marks, where the problem is serious, extreme, and then, of course, there are locations where the problem can be solved in some way by its self-government. But I'll tell you that there's been a phenomenon of so-called lately - I don't want to say and I'm sorry, maybe I won't choose the right word - some sort of raid by these people who suddenly show up in town, pick what they can, steal what they look at! [[with emphasis]] And believe me, there is no defense to prevent it. To the President of the úsvit, Mr Okamur, through Mr President. Let's try it sometime. Come try it sometime and please do not say cheap speeches such as: Greater control! Lock it up! Video cameras! Cameras! Atd. That's populism, that's all. Because in short, when this happens, no one will return the channels. Not to mention I'm not even talking about what the space around the container looks like - thank you, last sentence. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] The problem is, we're all paying for it 10 miles. our taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u23	Thank you, Mr Birke. With another factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Holík. After him, Mr. Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I'd like to support my colleague Kučera here now. I'll explain why. I don't think that even if we shut down cash payments or payments to natural persons, we're not gonna wash it out. Because there's always someone who's gonna have a business license and tell some Frant Čul from Upper Lower: "Look, you're not gonna get five bucks for it. I'll give you a duck. Be glad you have something." And, of course, you can hand it over with a businessman. And, of course, this Franta Chula guy, to come up with his money, he's gonna steal even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u25	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as far as Tomio Okamura is concerned. I must say that my D-Day experience, when I performed with him, means that he cannot be stopped by rude remarks from the diaper, even by fucking a hat pin, which my colleague Dana Bérová Bérová. But seriously. I've also been brushed with gutters, and my reservation to the Senate proposal is that it's very easy, and it's bound to happen that somebody's gonna set up an eserócko and those wheelchairs are gonna drive it in there and the situation is gonna happen again. So this is definitely not the solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u27	I thank Mr Pilný for his point of view. And now, with priority rights, he's coming to President Stanjura. I promise him I'll be at least good to him for 20 hours for being a gentleman and choosing a colleague. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u28	How long did you say? 20 hours. [[Glee in the hall.]] I can't stand to talk, but I don't mind. It's enough for my performance. First of all, I want to say hello to both senators who, besides being senators, are experienced mayors, so they're not just talking about the senator's experience, they're talking about the mayor's experience. First, a few glosses to what was said. Believe me, as a person who was chairman of a government MP club, I'm an expert on "we'll prepare a comprehensive proposal, better, system and so on" sentences. And I say it in a good way. I used it very often, and it's used as a tactic of delaying the problem. Now let me describe the legislative process. I promise my colleagues from the club that I will not be as brief and as brutal as at our meeting today. I'd call it, this law by the group. [[unintelligible]] This is the effect of Černomyrdin, who said, "We thought well and it turned out as always." So let's go to the beginning. I'm a fan of the community's regulation. The Senate started it, then made the proposal almost nothing in my opinion, but there's a big consensus that if you don't do almost anything, you'll find a big match on it, and sent it to us. So much for the Senate in the first round. What did we do? We have tried to return our amendment to the possibility of universally binding decrees, and all those who are smart here today, saying how wrong it is, have voted against it. And we rejected the best solution offered by this vote. That's what you have to say. And then again, the great warriors against the stickers, the great fighters for better law enforcement will allow their minister to smuggle an outrageous label into the Senate bill. You should have made that in your complex, system government proposal! That is why we voted against! Because there's nothing left to do with what the Senate sent us. And I don't know if it was Okleštěk or Böhnisch anymore, because it was two attempts to glue it in two laws, once you downloaded it systemically to stick it to something else in 14 days. It's about the House. With this sticker, it went to the Senate - round two. I think the union of cities and municipalities sat on top of those who stuck it there, came up with their amendment, and the rules of the legislative process tell us that if you want to support the House version, the best thing is to stick something else in the Senate, and then it will pass anyway. And that's what happened. I will personally support the Senate version, although I think the solution is more marketing than real. The Chairman of the Pilný Economic Committee spoke of this. It's okay, even making these bad guys harder. But the best option was first the Senate as a whole, and then the House as a whole rejected it. That's why I hate the way we say it's wrong. Yes, it could have been much better. Of course, you can go around like any bill when it comes to it. But the problem when you talk about crime, and you have to say it on the microphone exactly, is in collections on both sides. It is not only on the side of those who carry stolen material, but also on those who buy it out, and today they say, you want to make our business difficult for us. Yes, it's true. But it's just a reaction to what's happening. Do any of us think we have any hundreds of windowsills, gutters or canals in our basements? Nobody can tell us that, and they can't be completely serious. The problem with which the Senate is coming and which is, and I don't want to say whether constitutional or unconstitutional, I don't think it will be as effective as it would be if municipalities in their territory regulate it, for example, by place or time of operation and control. It's just a reaction to what happened and what's happening today and every day. And with Mayor Birk, when I say mayor, maybe I don't have to say through the fact that I've avoided addressing an MP, I just agree with that. Just so we don't get along with a bunch of good ideas when, at the moment we could influence it at second reading, no good ideas fell apart from ours - I must commend myself, but it is the same as Senator Vícha said - and the House rejected it as a whole. I don't know if we were 15 or 18 or 20, but a crushing minority, no tight ones. And I'm just on this mayor's side. Because they have to explain it to the citizens, not us in the House, the Senate. And we didn't help them at all! And it may be that some mayor, some council would screw up a generally binding decree, or go for somebody's hand. Of course, that can happen, and that cannot be ruled out. When we gave the village the opportunity to regulate gambling, and there may also be some excess in a generally binding decree, there is no doubt going hand in hand with this crime. All of a sudden, we're saying we're not gonna give it to the community. And then he's pulling the emergency brake when I really think the senators sat on top of it. And whether we vote for the Senate or the House, the sticker just stays there. The Minister of the Environment should have told us why he stuffed it in here. After all, we know that it wasn't written by the MPs, that it was a material that was created at the Ministry of the Environment and that somebody signed up and signed it here. When they talk about systemic change, this is exactly the example that was supposed to be in the government's design, not exhibiting us on one side of the dumpster lobby and on the other side of the lobby of those who run the incinerators. This makes sense that both of these groups have conflicting interests because they want to burn and have business and they want to store and have business. And now they're supplying us, certainly you, with arguments for and against. Instead of being a government proposal that went through the ordinary legislative review procedure, it just sticks to one press first, when there's a big scream in the paper, it festively withdraws to stick it almost unchanged. It's true there were some minor changes. And I say I'm more of a sleeper fan. On the other hand, if the EIA passes, as it's about to go, we're not gonna build any incinerator here anyway, we're gonna close the dumps, and we're gonna export it for expensive money to Germany, where the incinerators are. I think that's a real estimate of the future situation. As far as I know, for example, your deputy at the committee's meeting said that the waste costs are not paid by citizens, but by cities and municipalities. But that's not true, you'd have to take a legal obligation to cities and municipalities, a legal option to collect a fee for waste. It is true that many municipalities pay the majority, some pay the minority, but it almost never works out so that all the costs of collecting and disposing waste are paid by citizens. I can't even think of it, I think it's a good thing it's a service you're providing to all citizens in the territory. It's not just a select group. When you promote sport, you support the selected group when you support culture, the selected group. I think you support all the citizens who live in the city or the village. But to say that if we increase costs, like that costs increase, if we want to, or don't want to, it's just the pressure from Brussels, and I'm saying this to all the Euro-enthusiasts in particular, it's going to be so big that we're going to raise the charges for landfilling. Logically. And so, of course, citizens will eventually carry it in their payments to the city. [[21.30 hours]] But - and that's the main objection. Have you seen the original bill? Do you still remember what was there and what the House did about it, and I would say disrespectfully to our colleagues in the second chamber, did she make? We used it as so-called. The carrier, that means, remained de facto the name. Then it was rewritten with the sticker, and the thing that bothers me the most is that it's the same guys who fight the stickers. That's what really bothers me. If they weren't fighting stickers when they're doing it, I'd understand. But it's a classic contradiction of words and actions!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u29	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now I have three factual points. First, Mr Birke, then Mr Opálka, then Mr Herman. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u30	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I'm sorry I might keep you. I mean, three more points, maybe four. You know, I didn't say what I was up to in my opening act. I have to say, I'm up for anything to move this thing forward. At this point, of course, in my opinion, the Senate proposal is the right choice. I speak for myself. It's probably because my colleague Vícha, the senator, is also my fellow mayor, and he knows what he's doing. And we have the same problem. However, let me ask you a question. Especially in border cities, I have one thing I can't handle. You know, communication with collections is quite complicated. I was very naive three years ago, and I invited the head of the collections to start communicating with me, how we're going to deal with the sewers, gutters, etc. You don't even want to know what happened. Terrible! In the finals, I ended up taking these people's cars so they wouldn't just steal. So I'm just worried that they're gonna be... [[What have you taken from them?]] Cars, it's a wheelchair, Mr. Ambassador, for your information. And it's the same thing, don't worry about it. All I'm saying is that I'm worried that these people will not cross the border and start to form collections in another territory of the Czech Republic, virtually. in Poland and beyond, so that in some way we don't get around this thing. On the other hand, I agree with what Mr Stanjura says. There's no law that can't be avoided. And another note. You know, those mayors have been on their own for a long time. Long-term! And I'm saying again, any way we move it will be good, because simply and well, waste management is politics. And the last thing, really the last sentence at the end. You know, today's statement by some of the candidates to the communal is kind of funny about us doing waste for free and not asking for money for waste. [[Time, colleague!]] Let them try! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u31	Yes. Another factual point - Mr Opálka and Minister Herman will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, in the parliamentary term from 2002 to 2006, I was one of the petitioners, and we managed to push for a reduction in the purchasing time in collections so that it would not be possible to buy out in the night hours. That was the first restriction. Between 2006 and 2010, we managed to introduce the need to register for imports of waste, iron and colored metals. Another possible regulation. The trade law failed to establish that the collections will be a licensed trade and that it will not be a continuous vessel of operators with those who bring it goods. You know, the paradox was so big that businesses in Ostrava were saying, you know, before the train comes from metal scrapping into the hut, they're gonna jump people on those wagons and throw away garbage and we're gonna get 70 percent. The 30 will re-enter the metal scrapboards. So the situation is serious. But the problem is, no one's dealing with her. He doesn't take advantage of the possibilities the law already has, he won't take the chance of shutting down the collection. And so we invent more. But I don't think that if there's no control over the fact that someone's coming to the big property, and this isn't about the homeless at all, it's about those who run the collections, we're not gonna work anything out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u33	Another factual point - Minister Herman and will also be prepared with Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u34	Mr President, colleagues, a number of monuments are affected precisely by the problem we are talking about here. However, I am convinced that we cannot punish citizens who do not commit any criminal activity who are honest and simply commit to the collection what remains elsewhere for not being able to ensure that control mechanisms work. This needs to be dealt with wisely, and therefore I will certainly not support the Senate proposal, but I will support the honourable Member's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u35	Mr Bendl - so far the last factual one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u36	Thank you for the floor. I also wanted to address the proposal proposed by the ODS Members, led by an effort to strengthen the competence of mayors and cities and municipalities in the case of collection of waste as such. I would ask the Minister of the Environment very much not to be guided by what is probably being led by the House, I am referring to the principle: he comes with the ODS, so it is necessary to reject - in the end, to find that the only practical way is to really strengthen the powers in the municipalities so that it is not, as Mr Birke here says, through the President, that they will simply send the mayor to hell and say: we will do it our own way anyway. But at the moment when the network - in this sense, if every mayor started organizing it and knew that its gutters had been robbed in the village, over there that they had stolen their hatches from the sewers etc., it could simply be traced at a time when it was possible to buy out, when it was possible to bring such waste etc. So I would ask the Minister not to reject this ODS proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u37	That was the last point of fact, I don't see any more. Now there are two applications with priority rights. The first is Mr Laudát and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u38	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, until 21.21 today, I thought that my colleague Stanjura was a right-wing politician. Then I confess that I have a completely different opinion from him. I'm shocked to hear what I just heard from him. Forbidding natural persons to sell their own property just because we are unable to guard and obey the rules and comply with the laws, I find it absolutely shocking. I'm afraid it's going to happen exactly that this is from the workshop of those designs where the authors don't think of the consequences. I think that's exactly what I think it is about to be done to create businessmen, which means somebody's gonna take the I.C.O. The second possibility is that these people - we may be criticizing them, but not all of them are stealing canals, but some are actually earning by collecting what someone throws away or some neglected, forgotten dumps. So did the cops who are calling for this count the extra ambush? I mean, these people are gonna have to get to the livelihood somehow. Have you really thought of the real consequences of your decision? For the next one. You say that employment needs to be promoted, etc. Who are you going to punish? You will punish small businesses in the countryside, often in areas with high unemployment, which do not have contracts with some factories, because they are often not even in those regions. They actually buy from gardeners, buy from individuals. Did you guys think it wouldn't pay the citizens if it was free, to tie it to some collection points or to wait for someone to come in with a container? Who's gonna dispose of the dumps? I find it incredible that after 25 years, someone will simply come up with a proposal like this instead of trusting citizens and demanding - how much more will it take for officials, inspectors, ČOIek, city policemen, grey plagues, state police to...? Mostly in towns, municipalities there's one collection place, somewhere or not, they're not collected up to hundreds of thousands, at least I don't know, I don't have the overview to come there from time to time and if they find stolen property or municipal property there, which is what every jerk sees at first sight, so hopefully he can enter a liquidation penalty for the company. I can imagine. But what you come up with seems completely insane! I'm beginning to wonder if in November 1989 we should simply apologize to Mr. Late Miroslav Štěpán. Thank you. So there's no way I can vote for these laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u39	And now the Minister of the Environment with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u40	Good evening. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I fully understand the reasons which led the Senate to this proposal. I appreciate what was said here by the senator, with the fact that we were having a very clear conversation about how the proposal came into being. I do not agree with colleague Stanjura, by your means, Mr President, that this was an adhesive. He's not de iure sticker, or he wasn't. But I don't want to talk right now. This is important, and it has been said several times here, so I do not want to repeat that the Senate proposal in the absolute ban on the purchase of waste from natural persons is not really elsewhere in Europe. I don't want to argue right now. I've had a seduction from my waste colleagues, they've asked everywhere in European countries, and there's no ban on buying out for cash. Another thing is that nowhere, unfortunately, and that is the report card of the Czech Republic, it has not become such a criminal business as here. Neither in Poland, nor in Hungary, nor in other countries, we are simply very specific about this. Here's the segment where thousands of people work illegally, but also thousands of people legally. And what bothers me about it, and it's been said a few times around here, is that we're just going for a cat with a mortar. We'll kill the cat, reliably, but probably some people will die in the neighborhood, maybe a few dozen people. What the Ministry of the Environment is proposing today is that we now have an inter-ministerial decree, and the question is why one of my predecessors hasn't already done it. By the way, the ODS, who spoke through the mouth of President Stanjura, has had the Minister of the Environment for several years. And I'm asking why none of them came up with what we want to do today. That we want to ban the purchase of metals in cash from 1 January next year at the latest. I'm not saying it's self-saving. I'm sure you'll tell me, Senate colleagues, there's a way around it. Yes, it will. Exactly the same as you can bypass their design. Because we Čech are world champions in innovation, how to circumvent the law. There's a way around everything. All I'm saying is that I consider the Senate proposal to be the next, maybe the last step, maybe it's really the edge. I'm ready to talk about any proposal in between, but I'm offering this. From 1 January at the latest next year, we will come up with a decree that prohibits the purchase of metals in cash. There's no doubt that we're gonna complicate things for a lot of people and poison them. This will certainly bring effect and tightened regulation from the point of view of control of collections, including what is in the original Senate proposal, i.e. regulation from the point of view of regional authorities. We, as Mr Bendl said, will focus very intensively on this in the context of a comprehensive amendment, respectively. a new waste law, which has been waiting for its emergence for many years, since my many predecessors. We believe that this combination will bring some effect. If it doesn't, I promise here that, as part of the preparation of the material project, which should already go to the inter-reort during the autumn and then to the paragrafo text, which will go through a huge discussion of the entire society, without a doubt, not just the waste disposal, we will prepare further steps that will be even more robust. But I believe that this combination of steps, i.e. restrictions, or ban buyout for cash plus greater regulation of collections, will certainly bring some effect. It's just, and I'm sure it's already been said here, I don't want to resign yet to say that this state is not able to distinguish bad guys from decent people, and it's going to put everyone in one bag and punish the good guys. Although I totally understand what leads us to this, it is unfortunately a sad statement about what state we live in. We're not only criticizing here, but I think we're offering some solutions today, the solution should be quite quick. Again, as part of the discussion on a comprehensive amendment, we are certainly ready to go back to all the debates, e.g. even under greater authority of municipalities. But, as I understand it, the problem was that it came across unconstitutionality, that municipalities would be able to limit on their territory, for example. the number of collections. Because I would very much like the option that it will be a licensed trade, and frankly, we are probably the only state in Europe or even in the world where the largest number of collections, the purchase of raw materials, the population. I didn't do statistics like that, but I'm pretty sure we'd be at least top three, maybe even in the world, maybe even in Latin America they could compete with us. These are the things we're currently preparing, not just sitting with our hands down. I totally understand what led the senators to do, plus in one person the mayor, who is also the mayor. I understand that this thing is unbearable. Of course, it is not sustainable for me to accept that not only are millions running away, certainly hundreds of millions, are at risk of people's lives and health, because it has already crossed that line. I'm just saying, let's try that second-to-last step, and maybe we can reach out to that last one after another debate, which will definitely not be in years, will be in months, and I can promise that. Allow me to return briefly to what I was asked by President Stanjura. What led us to use the Senate proposal in the context of the debate within the Committee on the Environment, unfortunately, Mr President, led us, by your means, Mr President, to the fact that a long-term deferred new proposal on waste has put us in a position that we have been in several European Commission infringements, both from the point of view of the necessary introduction of mandatory metal purchase from 1. 1. So, from the point of view of failing to comply with European directives from the point of view of biodegradable municipal waste, and also in the fact that it was no longer the European Commission, the European Union was willing to release more money into some waste projects, because we simply did not have the concept and were unable to reduce the landfill that we have as one of the highest in Europe. I don't want to repeat the arguments I've already made here at this advanced evening's hour. But that was the reason that led us to do it. Not that Brabec was subjected to any pressure, either green or combustion, or any other. Trust me. That's what x is for. The comprehensive amendment to the Waste Act will clearly show you the way the Ministry of Environment will go. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support, even if I understand what has fallen here, to support, with some compromise of the original House proposal. And I promise, and I promise the senators here from this place that we will do everything we can to fulfill the goal to which they too are heading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u41	Thank you, Minister. If there are no applications with priority rights, we get to the duly applied for, the first is Mr Ladislav Šincl, Mr Korte will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, two ministers, allow me to join the debate on the amendment to the Waste Act and briefly support the Senate version of the Act, which is based primarily on repeated requests from municipalities and efforts to reduce the ever-increasing number of thefts mainly in relation to metals. As has been said here several times today, municipalities and cities in the Czech Republic perceive today's situation in this area as very unhappy. For example, in 2012, more than 11,000 thefts of metal materials with total damage of nearly CZK 445 million occurred. In 2013, it was almost 12,000 thefts with estimated damage of more than 500 million crowns. [[21.50 hours]] These figures show that thefts, especially of metals, are constantly increasing. These thefts destroy material possessions, which are made scrap for nothing gain, causing irreplaceable damage. Much of the theft concerns municipalities and cities. These are, for example, stolen canal hatches, torn cables, etc. And it's not unusual to steal metal equipment from cemeteries. The municipalities must then spend completely unnecessary funds, which could invest much more meaningfully. Theft of some parts of the municipal furniture is also potentially threatened by the safety of the population and, last but not least, the unprofessional dismantling of electrical equipment can also cause environmental damage. This problem, however, concerns not only municipalities, but, as has already been said today, it also concerns organisations such as the Railway Infrastructure Administration, the Road and Motorway Directorate, ČEZ and many others. While the current legislation of the Waste Act lays down rules for the purchase of metallic waste to prevent crime, such as identifying waste collected or purchased and persons from whom it has purchased items such as waste, etc. etc. However, it is more than obvious from practice that this existing legislation is very inadequate in terms of protection against theft and damage mainly of metal objects. The submitted Senate version of the amendment to the Waste Act is simple and brief. He's got two basic goals. Firstly, a significant reduction in the number of thefts of metal waste and the undesirable effects resulting from them, which, in particular, lead to a threat to property and human lives for metals. Secondly, limiting the amount of untaxed or unaccredited funds in the field of metal waste management. For these reasons, I support the Senate version of the amendment to the Act and I also ask other colleagues to support it. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u43	Mr Korte has the floor now and Mr Zahradník will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. I must begin by confessing to a conflict of interest. I have a stake in a company that deals with the processing of metal waste - I stress - processing. Ligmet, a joint-stock company, is a company that buys waste from companies where this waste is produced in production, and it further processes and lives into ironworks, foundries. The volume of metals that come from natural persons, but also associations, voluntary firefighters or municipalities, from iron Sundays is negligible in the order of units percent of total production. That's why I can talk to the knowledge of the environment here. As such, I do not agree with absolutely anything that the senator has said here justifies his proposal. I consider this Senate proposal to be non-systemic, discriminatory, potentially corrupt and legislatively defective. And I do not agree with what the Senator has explained, except that it is the fruit of the lobbyist pressure of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. Similar attempts have been made in the past. Those who have been here in the past period remember the amendment by a Member who has gone in the same direction, which, however, will enter the history of parliamentarism, as Mr Tomáš Chalupa signed it as an MP, who was also Minister of the Environment and at the same time claimed to submit a comprehensive amendment to the Waste Act by the end of the year. The novel responds to a situation that not only concerns you mayors, but bothers us all. It is a situation where so-called metal collectors plundrate and destroy the whole wide environment, and public administration cannot use the coordinated action of all its control mechanisms and legal control bodies to protect both private and public property and, on the one hand, prevent the appreciation of stolen metals in collection centres. As far as we're concerned, by the way, the euphemism of the metal collector is absolutely fascinating to me because it is suggesting that the metals are somehow multiplying by a coup, that they grow like mushrooms in the woods and then collect. The other day on the radio, I heard from this trial with a man, an unfortunate man who shot one of those pickers through the crossbows, defending the dead fellow: "But we didn't go there to steal, we just went to see if there were any metals." But metals don't reproduce by coup, but they belong to someone. It is a sad story of the resignation of public authority to control and sanction activity and a typical case of a state failing completely where it is about to be strong in controlling, sanctioning those who violate the law. Instead, it introduces new and new laws that not only do not usually solve the situation, but at the same time increase the administrative burden of companies, all of them, even honest ones, and give a tool to thwart citizens, all of them, even honest ones. It is the same approach as if we were to say: Most people die on the roads because they do not respect speed limits. The police don't check, they don't measure, they don't saccion, because they're sitting in the offices looking at the monitors. I propose a law - ban the operation of motor vehicles. And the problem is solved, because it is very unlikely that human lives will be lost in the clash of the oxen, at most on the oxen. The law or the proposal goes against the philosophy of waste management, where, according to § 9, it removes the principle of financial motivation for citizens to transfer waste back into their life cycle, but above all it deformes the market environment and creates conditions to ban the purchase from natural persons and by allowing the purchase from legal persons, the residents are forced to surrender their property free of charge and will not be able to evaluate their property. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but this, despite all the claims we've heard from the senator here, is nationalisation. If I can't deal with my property, if I'm gonna fix my fence and I can't pick up an old mesh and sell it to a collection room to reduce my costs, I can't deal with my property, I have to voluntarily hand it over to the state or community, it's nationalization and it's unconstitutional. And I guarantee you this will end up in the Constitutional Court. And I guarantee it, not as social democracy did in the past period, when whenever she didn't like something, she said, "We're gonna drive it to the Constitutional Court," I won't, but I guarantee that someone who was first disabled will go to the Constitutional Court. The ban on the purchase from natural persons and their permission from legal persons will certainly lead to an increase in corruption. It will not prevent the thefts, only that the collectors will sell stolen metals to natural persons, as my colleague Kučera has said, and there will be nothing other than that they will lose their price, because the price will be half or Thursday. This will only increase the appetite that they will have to collect more of those budding metals. So it will reach the very opposite of what the amendment wants to prevent. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what I'm willing to wager with anyone with knowledge of the environment. [[2.00 hours]] Moreover, the proposed adjustment may lead to the liquidation of a whole business environment. About 30,000 citizens work in collection, processing and downstream businesses. They are mostly people with basic education, so their applicability in the labour market is basically minimal, virtually. None. Qualified estimate says that as a result of the proposed adjustment, 10 to 15,000 of these employees will lose their jobs. This will lead to an increase in the cost of both the state and the regions, which is an increase in unemployment, social benefits and a decrease in income taxes. If it's 10,000, if it's only 10, maybe 15,000 jobs, what do the ČSSD unionists say? One final point. Even if the beautifully designed modification achieved its goal and managed to reduce theft of metals, or even completely prevent them, then it is clear that the way these collectors live, that crime will spill into another kind of crime, whether it will be looting apartments, chats, cottages, cars - I do not want to tell. And so I, with the knowledge of the environment, as I have spoken about it, say to this proposal: in the basket with him!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u45	Another party to the debate is Mr Zahradník and Mrs Pěnčíková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I do not wonder why this proposal has been named in the media by the Act banning the purchase of iron scrap from citizens. I am also a bit contaminated by the problem, but completely from a different side, for a reason other than my colleague Korte. For I remember a time when the collection of iron scrap could have gained far more valuable values than crippled money, such as photos before a developed pioneer pledge or a sightseeing flight, or perhaps a journey by the Družby train to the Soviet Union. However, first of all, I would like to talk about something that is even more important, in my opinion, and this is about the medium on which we have received the proposal from the Senate, which concerns the iron scrap, and this is the proposal that has been approved here as an amendment by Mr Oklešťek or Mr Böhnisch, who was therefore approved by the House, without the votes of the Civil Democratic Party, and which is coming back to us from the Senate. The proposal contains provisions that say that it is prohibited to store mixed municipal waste and recyclable and usable waste at landfills since 2024. If we were to ask ourselves, what is meant by this, then the proposal says a little bit not exactly - laid down by implementing law. What such implementing legislation may look like around 2024 may indicate to us the material that came to me in the form of a communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, etc. etc., the Committee of the Regions and known as the Zero Waste Programme for Europe. The problem of zero waste, that's a thing that scares a lot of people pretty much when we take it into detail. This programme sets out the glowing objectives. The Commission proposes setting some specific targets for the re-use and recycling of municipal waste to 70 per cent, increasing recycling of packaging waste to 80 per cent by 2030, with medium-term targets of 60 per cent by 2020 and 70 per cent by 2025. Also, until 2025, ban the landfill of recyclable materials and biodegradable materials and practically remove landfills by 2030. Our government has taken a stand on this proposal for a zero-waste programme. This statement states that the government of the Czech Republic does not support the setting of a binding target in the field of resource productivity and demands that an impact analysis be carried out on Member States taking into account their economic structures before setting any or non-binding targets. Furthermore, it is said in the Government's opinion that our government does not agree with the setting of too ambitious and inadequately justified targets for the recycling of municipal waste, the reduction of food waste in 2025, the reduction of landfilling in 2025 to 2030 and the recycling of packaging waste in 2025 to 2030. Despite this, however, we here, whether we incline to the Senate proposal, or whether we incline to the proposal that the senators have returned to us in the form of a parliamentary proposal, are always here to approve the ban on landfilling and implement it. What are we gonna do with this garbage? We're gonna sort everything out? Are we recycling everything? We're gonna sell again, use it, turn it into new products? Because Mr Stanjura correctly mentioned that it would be difficult for us to burn. When we look at the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which the Ministry is preparing and which we also have on the agenda of our meeting, there will be absolutely nothing built by this law, let alone a waste incinerator, which will be protested by a number of environmental but also civil associations, wherever its future operator thinks he might want to build it. I mean, we're not gonna burn. We're not gonna dump, either. What are we gonna do with this garbage? This is a question that each of us must ask ourselves before voting on the proposal tabled. I've already pointed that out at first reading, second reading. I think both Oklešťkův and Böhnischův's proposal is wrong. The question of what the senators are presenting and what they are bringing to us on this medium, about the iron waste, the iron scrap, is the thing that has been discussed here from all sides, and I also think that this method of experimenting and miscalculation on how to avoid the crime associated with the purchase of iron scrap, and this method of experimenting and error, I think, in this form, the ban on buying iron scrap from natural persons leads to a dead end. It's just not gonna do any good. So I also join those who will not support the Senate proposal - but also the parliamentary proposal - in today's hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u47	That was Mr. Zahradník. The next one for the debate is Mrs Pěnčíková. Mr Kučera will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u48	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sure you have the debates that have been going on over this law in your head. We have released the bill to limit crime, and that is what we all wanted, and hopefully we have succeeded. I consider what is now being presented to us by the Senate to be a good idea, unfortunately for me dragged to the absurd. I'm sure we all agree that crime must be avoided. No solution will be ideal, but every effort is appreciated. But is it also worth the effort to eradicate crime to limit the possibility of making money to socially weak citizens? I'm sure you have people in your communities who are unemployed or retired, who collect paper to take it to the collection and earn at least a few crowns for the little they have. Do we really want to punish them for those others who abuse this system and sell things stolen? Let's not throw them in the same sack with this proposal. We want to fight crime, but by doing this, we're gonna push a lot of people into a situation where they're out of funds, and maybe, probably, they're gonna resort to stealing. I don't wish it on them, but I wish it on us, either. A lot of people are driving the collection into the buyout now, saying that if they're supposed to sort the waste and drive it somewhere, at least they want it to pay off. Why wouldn't it be easier for them to make a pile of newspapers and a match? How will we continue to motivate them? I understand many of you who have welcomed this proposal and want to support it. I am aware that there are areas in our country where there will be no stone left on the stone and everything mysteriously turns into waste, which finds itself in the purchases for considerable money. However, as Senator Vícha mentioned in the opening words, our control mechanisms are not working. This may be the way to go. But today I ask you - let us not make the situation worse and vote against the Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u49	Thank you, Madame. Mr Kučera has the floor now. Mr Kolovratník, who is the last member of the general debate so far, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u50	Hello again. Thank you for the floor. I will no longer be here to comment on the Senate proposal. I think there's been quite a lot of talk about him here, about the fact that the Senate's proposal to TOP 09 doesn't support it, we've already talked about it. I would just like to mention for a very short time about the House proposal, which I think also deserves our attention. A colleague, Minister Brabec, has been screaming about how environmental ministers have not passed laws before him. I mean, he hasn't made any laws yet either. He quite cowardly pushed the quite fundamental laws of Members to table them as parliamentary amendments in a rather simple Senate amendment, which we would all support in the House. I am quite sorry for the senators who have done their work with the original Senate proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate the way in which we are discussing such an important amendment to the Waste Act, which will fundamentally affect the lives of our citizens and municipal authorities. Let me remind you what we will be voting on again today. The relatively simple Senate amendment to the Waste Act was read in the second reading in the form of parliamentary amendments a fundamental change, in particular the obligation to sort biodegradable municipal waste, but also the ban on landfilling incinerated waste. I would like to point out that the ban on landfilling incinerated waste is not in European directives. I have heard a number of Members, including from the coalition ranks, who have spoken on the subject that we are approving laws that are stricter than the European Union requires of us, making life unnecessarily difficult for our citizens, our municipalities and our governments. That's the law we're gonna pass today. So why are we approving a law that the European Union does not require of us? Of course, there's a theory here that it's a law that supports the incinerator lobby, which thus gets contracts. The TOP 09 and the Mayor's parliamentary proposal, which goes against our citizens and our municipalities and beyond the framework of the European directive, will not be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mr Kolovratník, I have here one point of fact from Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u52	Mr President, colleagues, I will try to be brief. There have been a number of previous speakers, Mr Laudát, Mr Korte, I agree with them in a certain way, because any such intervention is an intervention in human rights. When Mr Korte spoke of this - and remembered the tragedy in Chotěbuz, it is there that man actually defended his property and used the means for which he was convicted, because the four citizens of a particular ethnicity in the court claimed that they had done nothing, that they were walking, searching, etc. In this context, I would like to talk about the fact that discussing this amendment is such a challenge for us to think about - lawyers, legislation - the rights of man, I mean personal, the right as persons to protect themselves, health and property. To become such a case in the United States, I think the man from the Chotěbuz would be freed. In our country, this man has been punished. That means, let's really put the issue of the individual's freedom and the right of the individual to protect the person and the property. And I really think from this point of view that this man had the right to protect his property. It's complicated, it reminds me a little bit of a situation that was around the math wall in Ústí nad Labem, when a group of citizens defended some wall against a certain situation, and it was evaluated by citizens from Prague who didn't live there and said: this is an attack on freedom, on the rights of a group of people, etc. Senator Vícha is from my region and represents a group of people, or self-government, who can no longer find another way out. I'm from the region, too, and if there's a discussion with the citizens where 300 people come from, they really don't know, and we can't tell them what we're offering them, then it's sad. [[Note to the President: Time, my colleague.]] Last sentence. That means there was a recent press release that CZK 600,000 was paid as compensation by former President Lessy, a citizen who was robbed with nothing. If he gets an adequate refund from the state that's stolen from him--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u53	I'm sorry, it's a long last sentence, I really have to measure everyone the same way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u54	So I'll be brief. [[Fun in the hall. The President's attempt to remove the word.]] I'll support the Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u55	Okay, so we made a deal. Now, Mr Kolohradík, Mr Kolovratník, was the last to be entered in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u56	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I wanted to lighten my introduction to a proper application by being brief, by being able to do it, but my previous speaker didn't allow me to drag it like this. But I will try to enter those two minutes, even though I am in a proper debate. I'd like to ask you to really take common sense into your hands. I'm saying and I'm convinced that this hard ban isn't gonna solve anything. Mr Stanjura, a fellow Member, surprised me that he would like to support him, although I understand the mayor of the municipalities, but I am convinced that we will only create a cocoon for businessmen and cheaters, that he will start trading with these raw materials again. And maybe try to put yourself in those people -- I did a few years ago myself reconstruct -- when they're left with the radiators, the gutters, so if they're gonna throw them in the woods or take them somewhere. I'm sure they'd rather leave it somewhere. Perhaps what has not been said here - I strongly support our Minister Richard Brabec. What did not sound in the form that the amendment is now proposed, i.e. without a Senate proposal and the reward, the funds can be sent to a current account or they can also be paid through a credit card terminal, to a credit card. That may not have been said here. You can not only pay with a payment card, but technically, you can easily upload the amount on it. I'm convinced that if a crook or someone who collects and deals, he'll be forced to show his credit card that he'll probably change his mind. It's really as simple as that. So I would like to ask you, let us not be as brutally strict at the moment as the Minister of the Environment has suggested. Let's try that first step, let's just try it electronically, let's try it, and only if it doesn't work, then let's approach the harder step, as the Senate suggests. Let's not do this the other way around so we don't have to fix this place in six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u57	As much as I have called Mr Kolovratník as the last registered, I have yet another application from President Kalousek. He's still in the debate. Chairman Kalousek. And I ask for peace, especially those who arrived in the hall in anticipation of the vote, please keep their voice down, because until they arrived, it was quite quiet here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been some almost emotional speeches. I would suggest that we look at it from the positive side. Imagine that the plaintiffs of the Senate, who propose a ban on the purchase of waste from natural persons, would do good with the same vigor and with the same enthusiasm by means of general legislative bans, would devote themselves to criminal law. Imagine a situation where a large percentage of murders and violent crimes will be committed in the Czech Republic by an axe. So the plaintiffs of this type will think and ban axes within the good of the citizens. And they're really gonna get that result, because in the next year, no violent crime will be committed by an axe, only the murders will be committed by a hammer. The same legislation will meet and propose to ban hammers. And on and on and on and on. It's an ancient belief, I'm not criticizing it, I'm just extrapolating a little bit, and with a little exaggeration, I'm showing that most of the roads - don't shout, colleague Stanjur, I'm not shouting you out. Please, go yell at Sklenák somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u59	Mr President, the President of the opposition must warn you, so I will also do it for him and ask for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u60	I agree you're yelling at Sklenák, but yell somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u61	And you, President Kalousek, I ask that you turn to your opposition colleague only through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u62	Your way - yell at the Sklenák somewhere else. [[Fun in the hall.]] I am here with some exaggeration, colleagues and colleagues, trying to demonstrate that the road to hell is paved with good intentions and efforts to do good in the public interest by general legislative bans. The proposal doesn't have anything to do with Bublanův's madness to ban sales on holidays. To be honest, I hate holiday pilgrimages to shops and shopping at a time of holiday when people are to rest, visit and pursue something else, but until the last drop of blood I will defend the free right of a person to defy it from my own opinion, and not because Parliament has forbidden me to do so, because it takes care of my general good that I should not do such a thing. Solving a burning problem, I agree that this is a burning problem, by simply banning it, is one of the biggest leftist demonstrations of this Chamber of Deputies. We, who believe that man is responsible primarily for himself and that he should strive for the maximum degree of freedom within clear and clearly defined rules, must fundamentally reject this leftist delusion. The Senate proposal contains, above all, this left-wing delusion that it is possible to do good by general bans. In the government's proposal, Babišův's lobby is incinerated, which wants to make waste management more expensive and more expensive to the municipalities until the landfills are almost destroyed. One and the other opposes freedom of man and free competition. It is not in our power to vote in favour of both the Senate and the Government's proposal. Both are contrary to the concept of freedom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u63	Mr Zlatuška will speak with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kalousek has awakened in me such memories of youth, when we did collection competitions in schools, it was evaluated on the bulletin boards. It seems to me that he came here with what he said, with such an idea of almost building up communism by not doing normal production of something, but we're going to collect and carry things into collections and somehow making society richer. It seems to me that what he said here at the moment we make this impossible, we're not going to build communism. Definitely every thing has its costs and benefits, and in this social danger of what is happening, I find it obvious and the filipia surrounding the restriction of freedom impossible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u65	One more point in fact, Mr Gabal. Sorry, I'm sorry. I'd like a colleague who plays the music here so he doesn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u66	With your help only briefly to Professor Zlatušek. Dear Professor, we are dealing with the consequences of a phenomenon that will not be eliminated by eliminating the consequences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u67	Really or with priority rights. With priority for the debate. Please. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u68	Thank you. I can only respond to Mr. Zlatuška. I will not argue with him about what is consistent with liberal conservative principles and what is socialist. I will simply ask him rhetorically, of course by your means, Mr President, how he believes that by a naive vote for this naive proposal I hope will prevent this socially dangerous phenomenon. Of course, legal entities are already ready to buy out from natural persons a little cheaper than those natural persons would get in collections, waste that they got to in different ways as collectors. They just collect where they can, those legal entities won't ask them, just like the junkies and pawnshops where they got it. They're gonna give them the dumping price so they can sell it for a fair price as legal entities to collect and get paid for it with cashless contact. Through the Prime Minister, there are only two options. Either you're naive or you're a lobbyist of these legal entities who are already looking forward to their business. You certainly do not intend to eliminate this socially dangerous phenomenon, because this ban does not lead to the removal of this social phenomenon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u69	That was probably the last application for a debate, because I don't see anyone else, so I'm done with the debate. I'll ask the senators if they want the final word. Senator Vícha certainly is, and now there is room for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u70	Mr President, dear colleagues, of course I cannot miss to respond to some of the comments, and I must begin by saying that we will not be able to see so much joy in the Senate. Note number one. Someone forgot the charger at the news desk, and although it contains metal objects, it's still there. To a colleague of Okamura, a former colleague of the senator, who apparently came to life here in the Chamber of Deputies, he talked about it and then it was repeated here several times that we are affecting both this ban and decent people. [[Laughing in the hall]] It's a little different. They're just asking us to deal with it, because they're not gonna have anything left in those gardens, either, because they're gonna take it all away from them. Second thing. I did not initially understand why the Ministry of the Environment, referring to the European Union, says that it is necessary to separate metals, because I think that if something is separated perfectly in the Czech Republic, these are metals. You just somewhere in the woods, in the ditches, etc. You won't find anything. But good - if the European Union is ordering us to do so, it was incorporated there. I'm saying that if municipalities are ordered to separate metals, it's not possible to order them into containers where people put free metal, so someone stole it from them and took it to the collection room. Some communities take similar steps out of desperation. For example, in Bohumín, we have a competition called "Get your magnet!"". Whoever sees someone with a cart will report it to the city police, it will arrive, and if he is a decent citizen, he will help him push the cart to the bus station, and if he is a resident who lives in the hostel and could only come to the scrap metal in two ways, either he is stupid and will admit that he stole it or found it, and then he commits a non-disclosure and is confiscated by the cart. But colleagues, it is not possible for the municipalities to take these steps out of desperation and that the city police should stand only at the gatherings, because they have many other tasks. The collections, they will be affected and they will lose 10,000 employees, this said. You know, I expected that the collections would support this proposal with cheer. I mean, they're not buying any stolen scraps these days, just the one that stays in the house somehow. And that's what's left of them till the last kilogram. And now these people will even take it away free of charge under this law! They're gonna grow profits! Why aren't they cheering? Well, because probably no one's gonna carry the guardrails there anymore, because no one's gonna carry the bridge parts, because no one's gonna dismantle the traffic lights, etc., etc. In the opening words, I forgot one more important thing that Senate change brings. You approved that from 1. 1. the municipalities are to separate biodegradable waste. When we spoke on the committee in our Senate with representatives of the Ministry of Environment, they said they would prepare a model decree for the municipalities, how it was done from 1. 1. they are to do, and the decree will be available perhaps at the end of November. So you can imagine how municipalities can adopt decrees in December that should apply from 1. 1, and they should sort the biodegradable waste according to it. This is not possible even legally, because it has to ask the Ministry of Interior for approval, it has to put it up for 15 days and so on. That's why we've postponed efficiency from 1. 4. as regards biodegradable waste. It was said here, and I admitted it was a lobbyist proposal from the Union of Cities and Municipalities. I guarantee you that municipalities would be overjoyed if they didn't have to present anything like this here if they didn't have to deal with anything like that at all. And if the Minister promises that a decree will be adopted quickly and that perhaps in the next step, if it is not effective, then he will proceed to this version here too, then I ask him to strengthen the controls! It is not possible to save a few million crowns on people who would increase control when billions of dollars of damage is incurred! If the damage hadn't occurred, we wouldn't have been here at all, and we wouldn't have made such a suggestion. Mr Korte said that there is a limited right to deal with his fence, with his metal at will. It's not! Anyone can put the fence in the attic, into the basement, do whatever they want with it. And it can also be put into collection through the company. Nobody here limits anyone to law school. There's no need to ban hammers or axes because murders are prohibited as such. We have a completely left-wing law that says it's forbidden to go left, and it also applies. I didn't think there'd be any argument that we had to let people steal scrap, because otherwise they'd be robbing people and stealing from something else. Well, I'm sure that's not the way to go. I'm not gonna hold you any further, I'm asking for your support, and I'm aware of how this is gonna turn out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u71	Now I have a request for Prime Minister Kalousek's priority speech, so I'll give him my word. With the fact that Senator Zeman still has the right to a possible final word after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u72	Thank you. I can't have two comments about Senator Vícha's performance. I have been going, walking, and probably going for some time as a petitioner for proposals to the Upper House, whether as a member of the Lower House or as a member of the Government. I do not remember any member of the House of Commons starting his speech in the Upper House by lightening and laughing at the debate that was going on in the Upper House. You did it, Senator, and I beg you very much never to do it again, because you're a guest and guests don't usually behave pejoratively and rudely on visitors, and if so, they're escorted out with the appropriate pension. So many note number one. Note number two to how citizens require us to do this. One of the greatest sins that politicians, especially the populist, commit infernal, is that we tell citizens that we have a simple solution to their problems. Of course, they support it because they have enough to worry about than to think about the depth of the problem. In the finals, however, citizens will find that it has not solved their problems at all, that the problem persists, but it has earned a few pounds. And then trust in democratic institutions and politicians who promised them that they had the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u73	I'll ask the senator, he doesn't want the final word. [[Zemana.]] In that case, we shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I'm gonna comply with the application for a check-out, so I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna ask you all to rejoin. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and amending certain other laws, as amended, pursuant to the Chamber of Press 153/4, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the Chamber of Press 153/5.' Whoever wanted to sign up has already done so, so I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour and agrees with this resolution. Who is against this law? The vote has number 116, registered is 151, for 24, against 102. This proposal has not been adopted. In that case, we shall vote again, in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members is needed in order to adopt this resolution, that is to say 101 Members. Kvorum is set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste and amending certain other laws, as amended, as amended, in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 153/4.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 117, registered is 152, for 104, versus 30. This proposal was adopted. [[Restlessness in the room.]] I've noticed a reaction in the hall, I'm going to ask if there's an interest in checking the votes. This is not the case, but the chairman of the TOP 09 Club is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u74	It is appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, at least from my side of the leaving Senator Chládek to ask for some forgiveness for the harsh words, because what... [[The President corrects Víchu.]] [[The President is redefining: Mr. Senator Vícha.]] Víchu - ask forgiveness for too harsh words, because the deal for those legal persons who would profit from the Senate proposal is a marginal promile against the business of the Babiš incinerators lobby, which they will earn on what you have just approved, given the regulation of landfills.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u75	So I am merely stating that we have adopted the bill in the wording in which it was forwarded to the Senate, and I conclude the discussion of point 3. I'll hand over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-008-003.u76	Good evening before midnight, honourable Members. We've got a fixed point number
