ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u1	73. Oral inhalation
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u2	So today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the order of Members in which they will perform and submit oral interviews, first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or to the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14:30 to 16:00, and then to other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I am now giving the floor to Mr Adolf Beznosk, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka. A Member of the Antonín Seďa will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, members of the government. I have a brief question for Prime Minister Sobotka. In the media there is information about special privatisation of OKD. According to all expert opinions held by the Police of the Czech Republic, the Corruption Detection Unit, the correct price should have been about 7.5 billion. Crowns. Really, the business took place in 4.1 billion. CZK, which is likely to have been damaged by a state worth 3.4 billion. Crowns. At the time of privatisation in 2004, today's prime minister was a member of the Presidium of the National Property Fund. Among other things, the transfer included a transfer of 44,000 flats. The average price of that one apartment is 40 grand. Crowns. Two questions for the Prime Minister. First, if he considers the privatisation to be right, and if not completely, he will produce any personal consequences, at least political, and secondly, whether the price of one apartment of 40 thousand. The Czech koruna considers that it is appropriate to take the 2004 prices as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u4	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u5	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, I think it is necessary to correct your claim that the privatisation of the State's residual stake in OKD in 2004 included the transfer of flats. There was no transfer of apartments at the time. Apartments unfortunately - and I stress for the second time: unfortunately - were introduced into OKD by former Minister of Industry and Trade Vladimír Dlouhý in the early 1990s. [[14.40 hours]] It was a wrong decision because OKD should never have been privatized including the housing fund and the housing fund should have been transferred to cities and municipalities. Unfortunately, Vladimír Dlouhý made a wrong decision back in 1990 or 1991, and Klausův' government, in which your political party, ODS, was also involved, launched the privatisation process of OKD. And maybe I'll surprise you, there's been a wild privatization of OKD, and the state has lost 51 percent of its shares. I want to ask you, do you happen to know how much the state got for the 51 percent of the shares? In case you don't know, I'll tell you, the State didn't get a penny for 51 percent of the shares. Not a penny! How is it possible that the police are still not investigating this? How is it possible that no one evaluated the role of those politicians who caused the state for 51% of the shares to lose its controlling majority and did not receive a single crown? In 2004, the government of which I was a member had already sold shares in an undertaking in which it had no control. She was selling about 45 percent of the shares. For these shares she received a market price of CZK 4.1 billion. The fact that this was a market price confirmed not only the Office for the Protection of Competition, but above all the European Commission, which examined the entire transaction and found that there was no public aid in the sale of the minority stake of the State in OKD. And as for apartments. The apartments have been part of OKD since the early 1990s. Nobody cared about the tenants. The first government to take care of the situation of tenants of OKD was only our government in 2004, which first established the pre-emptive right for tenants of OKD flats in the privatisation contract. The government then committed the acquirer not to sell these flats to anyone other than the tenants. And this is a permanent condition that is part of the privatisation agreement, and the government, too, must insist that the conditions of the 2004 privatisation agreement be fulfilled and complied with. And maybe one last remark in response to your interpellation. The ODS is undoubtedly a party that knows a lot about privatization of OKD. After all, your new Vice-President, Mr Tošenovský, undoubtedly a new face in Czech politics, knows more about the OKD than all of us here in the Chamber of Deputies together, because Mr Tošenovský, Vice-President of the ODS, sat in the Supervisory Board of OKD from 2005 to 2009, after privatisation, was even Vice-President of the Supervisory Board of OKD and only in 2007 and 2008 he received nearly CZK 5 million for sitting in this Supervisory Board from the owners of OKD. Your party vice-chairman. So I recommend if you have any further questions, please contact Mr. Tošenovský. It might also be worth asking why Mr Bakala put CZK 15 million on the Civil Democratic Party before the 2010 elections as an expression of support for its policy and its election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u6	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the Member if he wants to ask the Prime Minister an additional question. It's not like that. I therefore now give the floor to Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u7	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, there is high unemployment and fear of losing employment over the biggest problem at the moment. Your government has accused itself of one of the objectives of increasing employment and supporting investment. For a longer time, information on the construction of two distribution centres of the Amazon online shop, namely in Brno-Slatin and in Dobrovíz u Prahy. These investments could bring about 2,000 new jobs. However, there has recently been speculation as to whether these investments will be at all, because there have been problems with the transport connections of these warehouses to transport infrastructure, so as to make the environment of the citizens as little as possible difficult as possible. I would therefore like to ask, Prime Minister, how specifically will the government contribute to supporting this investment. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u8	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u9	Thank you. Let me say, in response to this interpellation, that it is naturally not just a matter of investment by Amazon in the Czech Republic. The new government will monitor very closely and closely all the interesting investors who are interested in investing in our country and in promoting the creation of new jobs. The problem is that in recent years the Czech Republic has lost the lead it had in the region of Central Europe. We had CzechInvest here, which was a model for all government agencies throughout Central Europe in terms of the quality of its activities. This is all long gone. I think that the task of the new government should be to give a clear signal to those who want to invest in the Czech Republic that our country is ready. That she is ready to communicate with businessmen and that she is ready to provide them with the necessary service. It is also necessary to realise that we are moving in a competitive environment. Our direct competitors are countries in the region, Slovakia, which are already paying the euro, Hungary or Romania, Bulgaria, which have lower labour costs than in the Czech Republic, but naturally worse infrastructure. As far as Amazon's investment is concerned, there is a chance of building two distribution centres. There's a chance of employing maybe 3,000, maybe 4,000 people at the top. But since these are distribution centres, naturally they have a significant impact on transport, on regional transport where they will be established and built. Therefore, the main issue identified by the State, and I would like to note that the State participates in these negotiations through the CzechInvest Agency and through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, concerns transport infrastructure. As far as the municipality of Dobrovíz in Central Bohemia is concerned, it is the construction of a bypass communication that would carry transport connected with the operation of the distribution centre outside the municipality. A similar problem is in Brno, where it is a question of a highway ramp that would directly connect the industrial zone in which this investment is to be created with the D1 motorway. In both of these cases, state institutions offer an agreement, offering a memorandum which also contains State synergies. As far as Brno is concerned, synergies are the plan for the construction of the connection between the D1 motorway and the industrial zone in Slatina, where Amazon's investment is to be realised. As far as Dobrovíz is concerned, the municipality has not yet given an exact consent to the terms and conditions as proposed. A new meeting of the council in Brno is also expected. I want to assure you that the government will monitor the matter closely through the relevant institutions and ministries. We are ready to help make these investments in the Czech Republic not only for their own sake, but also to send out a clear signal that the Czech Republic is ready again for serious negotiations with investors who will come to support our economy, create new jobs and participate in the country's economic growth. So much for the issue of Amazon's investment very briefly. At this point, I cannot clearly answer you the question of whether the negotiations will be successfully completed, because this does not depend solely on the will of the state. If this mattered only to the will of the Czech Republic, then I can say: Yes, the Czech Republic is ready to agree, to provide suitable conditions. But now it depends on the decision of the competent authorities. This means the municipal council of Dobrovíz, it also depends on the decision of the city council in Brno and now the government has to wait for the opinion of the self-governing authorities. If the position is positive, if there is a chance of reaching a final agreement, then state organisations and institutions are ready to contribute to the final agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u10	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the honourable Member if he wants to fill in the question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u11	Thank you for your answer. Prime Minister, we really need to cooperate and find a consensus with the authorities. I would have one more specific request concerning the Zlín Region, because you know that in the past the Zlín Region has invested with the aid of state subsidies to the industrial zone in Holešov. She has a lot of problems at the moment. [[14.50 hours]] Therefore, I would like to ask you to cooperate to resolve these problems, especially for its transport connections to the nearby D1 motorway, because I believe it is a pity that this investment, which it has cost, if I remember vaguely, CZK 1.6 billion, does not allow 100% use to increase employment in the region. Thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u12	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u13	Thank you. Dear Member, I am naturally familiar with the situation of the holešov industrial zone in recent years. It is a fact that relatively large public funds were invested there to make this zone ready for new investments, and so far no major investor has been able to get there. I agree with you that one of the reasons may be the question of incomplete connection to the basic and key transport infrastructure. And to be honest, that reasoning awaits us in other areas and in other locations. At the same time, if the government wants to focus more actively on the issue of obtaining direct investment and promoting the creation of new jobs, we also need to build on the development of transport infrastructure. So, hand in hand, the government must conceptually consider how, when and how it will use prepared industrial zones in which considerable funds have already been invested in the past, and how it will adapt to the development of transport infrastructure and investment in it in the coming years. Here I would very much welcome cooperation between the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance so that we can coordinate the development of transport infrastructure and the access of new investors to the Czech Republic. I want to assure you that when it comes to connecting the holešov industrial zone, we see this as one of the priorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u14	Thank you. I am now giving the floor to Mr Petr Bendl, who was drawn in third place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka. Please prepare Mrs Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u15	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, dear Prime Minister, I have a simple question. A member of your government is a person who belongs to important entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic, in the agrarian sector up to some parts of the monopoly position. I would like to know whether you personally mind and feel it as a conflict of interest if the Finance Minister has a Financial Analysis Service under him or not, and whether you intend to do something about it, because this department has access to sensitive information from competitors of all companies, has access to information that may be of great value on the market and can be in a significant conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u16	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u17	Thank you. Dear Member, allow me to respond to your interpellation. Of course, this is to a large extent a new situation that we have not yet encountered, even in the past, although political parties have been formed in a very fast way. Mr Babiš is undoubtedly not the first entrepreneur to enter the government so quickly on the basis of the results of the elections. And I want to stress that this was based on the results of the elections. Citizens who voted for the YES movement knew who was in charge of it, and they could logically also assume that if this party obtained a strong electoral mandate, it could be in government and could be part of a government coalition. From this point of view, I think I know nothing about what the chairman of this movement would hide or conceal in the election campaign from his position and from his economic position. I just want to remind you that in the last parliamentary term, without wanting to do any equality here, part of the government, and for some time even the Minister was the effective President of Public Affairs, Mr Bárta, who was also an entrepreneur, even in a specific area. And that's when we were debating whether there was a conflict of interest here, given that his political party nominated the Home Secretary. That risk is always there and always will be here in the future when an entrepreneur enters politics. And here I think it's very important that we put emphasis on standard procedures, on compliance with the law. We have a conflict of interest law here, which obliges a member of the government to report this conflict of interest at the moment when a vote awaits him, in which there could be conflicts of interest. So it's respect for the legal regime. I am also informed that Mr. Andrej Babiš has resigned from his duties in the statutory bodies of the company he owns. As far as the Financial Analysis Service is concerned, this is no secret service. I assume that the Financial Analysis Service has precise rules and precise procedures, from the point of view of its activities governed by law, and I have no reason to fear that the Financial Analysis Service should proceed in a different way than in a standard manner. This means, yes, it is a powerful instrument, but I firmly believe that it will be used in accordance with the law, especially for what it is intended to serve, that is to identify illegal transactions, to help the state fight terrorism, to help the state, for example, in the fight against tax evasion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member whether he wants an additional question. He does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u19	Okay, I understand. You believe the Vice-President of the Government that he will not even abuse the fact that he will have sensitive data, even if it does not have to be any criminal matters. But he'll have access to his competitors' accounts. You don't mind, okay, so be it, at least everyone heard it. I would just like to remind you that both Mr Bárta and Mr Řebíček have given up ownership and transferred their companies to other persons. I'd like to know if you're counting on your member of the government to do the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u20	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u21	Thank you. She's a really interesting question about the Financial Analysis Service. I've been Minister of Finance for four years, that department was part of the Ministry of Finance at the time, and frankly, I never thought I'd take advantage of my position and investigate any sensitive data from anyone. I say anyone. There are standardised procedures. The department is essentially separated from the rest of the Ministry of Finance, both from the point of view of its management and from the point of view of dislocation. And if the minister wanted to get some sensitive data, all these requests would, I suppose, be recorded. This means that, according to my information available from the experience of the Minister of Finance, it cannot be obtained sensitive data without being evaluated in some way without being recorded in any way. I suppose, then, that the new minister might be informed that his predecessor was trying to exploit the FAU in some way. So I don't think that's gonna happen. Once again, there are procedures. And I didn't succumb to the temptation when I was Minister of Finance. As far as Mr Řebíček is concerned, I understand the example. Mr. Řebíček, I believe he sold his share of Viamont. But I don't know if it's a very happy example, because even though he sold his share, and if you look at how much more Viamont's orders grew during the time Mr. Řebíček was the Minister of Transport, it turns out that the doubts are here anyway. Although he sold the share, there are still doubts whether the expansion of Viamont coincides with Mr Řebíček's actions at the head of the Ministry of Transport is the result of the previous link. I just want to point out that after Minister Řebíček left the head of the Ministry, the company was not doing so well, and I don't think it turned out quite well. So it wasn't a very good example. But frankly, I am not at all opposed to discussing how to amend the law on conflict of interest in the future. If we come to an agreement that we should apply certain rules more strictly or more strictly in the future, then undoubtedly, I believe that I am speaking for the entire government coalition, we are not at all opposed to such a debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u22	Thank you, Minister. I now give the floor to Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who was drawn in the fourth place to present an oral interview with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, madam. And Mr. Marek Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u23	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members of the Government, I will start with a quote - a quote from the current Minister of Finance: 'We will insist on this', so I quote, 'that we will use funds of approximately CZK 350 billion, which lie without use on the Czech National Bank's accounts, to manage the state debt'. [[15.00 hours]] I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he really is identified and has the same opinion as his Finance Minister, with 350 billion crowns lying on the Czech National Bank's accounts, which can be used to reduce the sovereign debt of our country, if he is aware that, firstly, the money is not there, secondly, that the large amount of funds held by the Czech National Bank in its accounts belong to other state organisations, e.g. higher education institutions or e.g. to municipalities and, therefore, whether the Prime Minister thinks that it is good to touch this money from universities or municipalities to reduce the government's debt. That's the first question. And second, if he doesn't think it could mean such an intervention in the financial management of the state to discourage potential investors and reduce the economic assessment of our country abroad. Thank you for answering these two questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u24	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u25	Madam, I naturally had the opportunity to speak with the Minister of Finance on this subject. He based his communication on a regular report submitted by the Ministry of Finance, which spoke about the average balances on the CNB's accounts registered under the Treasury system, but although balances are recorded and reported, the State does not have access to these funds. After all, that's what you mentioned yourself in your interpellation. And this may be the problem that we have in the Czech Republic, unlike other countries, where the Treasury system has been brought to an end in the sense that all public bodies have the means that the government, at the time it had to borrow, has to use the surplus in these accounts and temporarily finance its needs. Yes, you are right, it would be a kind of disruption to the existing budgetary autonomy that some entities have, but the question is whether it would actually interfere with their management if the funds are there and are not used in any way. This is a debate that awaits us for the future. You may recall that we have also had this discussion here in this Chamber of Deputies. It was at a time when Minister Kalousek, who was, after all, the Minister of Finance in the government, in which the ODS was also involved, established a treasury system and tried to make full use of the public universities' resources as part of the system. At that time, there was great opposition from public universities, and schools argued that the state could not touch their money within the Treasury system. That means they've stayed out, but they're registered and they're reported. And Minister Babiš was based on reporting, which includes these funds. In the future, I think there is a debate here and there is a possibility of debate as to whether our treasury system should not be more effective in this regard, because if we included all the public institutions' funds and the state could temporarily touch them if necessary, then this would undoubtedly reduce the cost of the state's debt service. It is a question of rational economic debate, whether it would ultimately be more useful for the State than to respect it, I agree with you, as well as the important autonomy of individual public institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u26	I thank the Prime Minister and ask her if she wants to ask an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u27	I don't think I want to ask you a follow-up question because I don't know what else I can learn about her. I just thank the Prime Minister for explaining that he chose the most important man in his team to be a man who can't read the reports and doesn't understand their message and interprets them as he attacks him in the spirit of election cheap rhetoric. Thank you for this clarification from the Prime Minister's mouth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u28	I now give the floor to Mr Marek Benda, who was drawn in fifth place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka. Please prepare Mrs Fischerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u29	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I may not be able to take two minutes. In a famous letter, which left the People's House to Prague Castle, in which a part of the ministers of this government was renamed, which all of us were then able to see from Prague Castle, there was a sip in which it was stated that the annexes to this letter were a demonstration certificate of the members of the government. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it was a demonstration certificate from all the members of the government, or just some of the members of the government, or some of the members of the government, and whether these illustrations were all negative, or some of them were positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u30	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u31	You are right, honourable Member, that the annex to the proposal I presented to the President of the Republic was a demonstration certificate. All members of the government, except for a candidate for the Minister of Finance, either submitted a negative illustration certificate or stated that they were no longer subject to this obligation because they were born in a period when the Illustration Act did not require the issue of such a certificate. This is the reality, this was the composition of the annex which was part of the proposal I submitted to the President, and for this reason I can also state that the proposal was quite specific, since the exact names of the individual proposed members of the Government were given within the appropriate certified copies of the illustrations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u32	I thank the Prime Minister and ask Mr Benda if he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u33	Prime Minister, I understand your explanation that the illustration certificates were not given by those no longer covered by age, but, if I am not mistaken, the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Babiš are among the years to which the illustration certificates still apply. I therefore ask why his illustration certificate was not an annex to this letter to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u34	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u35	I think this thing is very simple. Naturally, I turned to individual coalition parties, with whom we agreed on a coalition agreement, to supply the relevant documents for submitting a request to the Prague Castle, and I also submitted these documents, which were supplied by the coalition parties, to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister. And now I give the floor to Mrs Fischerová, who was drawn in sixth place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka. I will ask Mr Jan Zahradník to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u37	Madam Vice-President, thank you so much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I am meeting as a Member of various persons and also one part of them, among others. are traders and self-employed persons. They are interested in many things, because we know that the business currently, the amount that falls down, their number affects different things. Among other things, they also ask me how it will be prospectively with tax so-called. expenditure flats. So I have studied the coalition agreement, where part of it can be read, but I will have a specific question at the end. I have read the government's priorities: we will support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We also consider the maximum reduction of administrative burdens for entrepreneurs to be important. That's good, I like that. But then on with Article 2.4, it should be effective from 1. 1st year 2015, we will endeavour to approve changes, limit the amount of flat-rate costs for the Ministry of Finance the absolute amount. At present, these amounts are 30-80 percent, we know that. But I would like to know, Prime Minister, if there is an analysis and what impact this will have on our state's fiscal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u38	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u39	Thank you. Madam, you may recall that the current form of flat-rate spending is, in principle, valid in our country since 2006. It may surprise you, but at that time I was in the position of Minister of Finance and I advocated and supported the extension of the possibility for businessmen to apply spending flats. But at that time, the spending flats were applied in combination with progressive taxes and were applied in combination with minimum taxes. [[15.10 hours]] That is why, although we have deepened and expanded the possibility of spending flats in 2006, the collection of income tax has not collapsed. The collection of income tax from natural persons in business collapsed only during the reign of Petr Nečas, it started already during the reign of Mirek Topolánek at the time of the abolition of tax progression, introduced equal tax and abolished so-called. minimum tax and left the generous spending flats as we set them up during the reign of social democracy in 2006. And that's when the collection of income tax on individuals who were doing business collapsed, because before you canceled the progression and abolished the minimum tax, the state collected some 16 to 17 billion crowns per year from the CFI. Guess how much the state picked last year. Less than 3 billion crowns. Less than 3 billion! So it was sixteen and seventeen, and now it's less than three billion crowns. It's obvious there's a problem with tax collection. The second problem that exists here, and you asked about it, and of course I'm happy to answer it, concerns the analysis of tax collection from self-employed people. It is evident that in our country there are differences in the burden on employees and self-employed persons. These differences can be justified because employees naturally have a higher tax burden, but they have, say, more comfortable conditions in a wide range of areas than self-employed entrepreneurs. But the question is, is it really justified everywhere? I'll give you one particular example that concerns health insurance. In the field of health insurance, employees pay higher rates on average, self-employed persons on average lower rates, but both self-employed persons and employees have a chance to receive exactly the same health care. This means the extent of health care provided is the same for both employees and self-employed persons. So there are inequalities here, and we agreed in the government coalition that we would prepare an analysis that would describe exactly where these inequalities arose. We would like to open a whole society discussion on how the taxation of the CFI, on the one hand, and the employees on the other, is to develop in the future. There's a real problem here, and I'm going to tell you that, like, today, businessmen, of course, are worried or watching carefully what's going to happen to spending flats, so the employees are just as upset because they're saying, we're the tax collectors, and we're actually paying for everything here and we're pulling. There are different views here. We would first like to submit an analysis, open up the debate, and do not want to be hasty about any measures. And as far as spending flats are concerned, I want to assure you, and so do all the small businesses, that when it comes to small tradesmen with small turnovers, they will not touch any negative restrictions. Why? I am convinced that flat-rate spending should not serve as an instrument of tax optimization, that it should serve as an instrument to simplify administration for entrepreneurs, so that the tax office does not have to document every expenditure in the form of a document. Here, the spending flat rate simplifies significantly, the communication between the businessman and the finance office. But a flat-rate spending should not help entrepreneurs who have sufficient resources, have large turnovers and can, of course, hire lawyers, hire tax advisors and so on, and that tax payment is not an administrative problem for them. So it is important that spending flats continue to help small entrepreneurs reduce the administrative burden, but should not be abused as an instrument of tax optimization for those types of entrepreneurs who do not really need spending flats, but, of course, accept them as a kind of comfort that allows them to optimize the payment of tax to the state. Those are the considerations we have. We want to act wisely, gradually and in no way want to harm those real small businessmen, craftsmen, small businessmen. They don't have to worry about any negative changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u40	I thank the Prime Minister and ask Mrs Fischerová if she wants to ask the Prime Minister an additional question. That's right. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u41	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, but I know from experience that it is extremely important for people to have this job, even the small businessmen, and my view is that way. My question was whether the analysis existed. So I understood from your answer that not yet, because if the analysis didn't work out perfectly, I'm afraid it won't even tell that it's going to disappear somewhere in gray again, but I'm looking at it with my own eyes that it's important that people, even the small businessmen, have a job, they can take care of themselves. That it's beneficial for our state in general. But I don't even ask a question anymore, it's more like a long debate because it's not that simple and we all have a slightly different view of it, but above all, it's about people being able to take care of themselves from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u42	Thank you, Madame. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u43	Thank you. Madam, you may be surprised, but I agree with you. In a situation where we have such high unemployment as today, when almost 600,000 people are out of work, when the economy is not growing, in principle stagnating, these growths are very weak, so the idea that any government will increase the taxation of small businessmen would automatically mean sending them to the labour authorities. Therefore, the government also does not want to take any such measure and will very carefully consider all the measures it will take in the tax area. The analysis isn't processed yet. Analyses have trade unions, and employers have analyses. Government analysis will be processed, it will be part of the government's programming statement, and on the basis of this analysis, we want to open a debate. Because, indeed, a number of people here today have a certain injustice in terms of the level of taxation and the levies that apply to public systems. And maybe in conclusion only one example, which is also important and needs to be talked about out loud. People who work in the Czech Social Security Administration tell a number of examples of when a person who has worked as a businessman in the last twenty-five years, the self-employed, now comes and asks about the income of his pension, or is already officially assessed, is shocked by how low the pension is. Naturally, a number of entrepreneurs like to pay lower social security contributions, but they do not realize the consequences it will bring when they retire and when the old-age pension is paid to them, and then they are shocked by the low amount they receive. Even here, the state should deal openly with its citizens, and it is necessary to tell the businessmen the whole truth: Yes, today you can benefit from social security discounts, but please count on the fact that at the moment when you are granted an old-age pension, you cannot count on such a high old-age pension, which maybe your fellow employee will receive, even if you see it as unfair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Jan zahradník, who was drawn in seventh place, will speak with the next interview. Mr. Václav Klučka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when I thought about what question I would ask the Prime Minister when I first participated in oral interventions, I thought of more topics, but in the end the only topic that was most important to me as a Member elected in the South Bohemia Region, and the topic is the transport connection of South Bohemia to the centre of our Republic, Prague, and then to the European motorway network, that is to say south, to the Hornorak Linz. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister the order in which the government's priorities, which he holds, are the construction of the D3 motorway and the subsequent R3 expressway, as well as the location of the R4 expressway, which connects Písek and Prague from the southwest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u46	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u47	Thank you. Dear Member, I think it is quite logical that, as the former Governor of the South Bohemia Region, you are asking about an important state infrastructure structure, which is undoubtedly crucial for the future of South Bohemia, but also for our connection with Austria. The first thing I would like to say is that, according to the information I have received, the Austrian party is counting on this border section to be invested from the Austrian side after 2018, i.e. the perspective of around 2018 from the point of view of the completion of the Austrian side of the motorway. As far as the Czech side is concerned, I can assure you that the construction of other sections of the D3 motorway is under way. [[15.20 hours]] So, first of all, the government is counting on continuing to finance construction and also preparing the D3 motorway south-facing according to needs. At this point, it seems that there is some slowdown in construction in the two following sections after those which have been opened, as a result of the abolition of the competition authority for two of these sections, and the competition will have to be re-prepared. But I can assure you that in this year's budget from the point of view of the transport fund, funds are provided for both the start of the investment and the purchase of land in those other stages towards České Budějovice and around České Budějovice. This means that the funds are secured this year, and, as far as the next years are concerned, naturally you will also be able to influence this as a Member of the House in a situation where the budget of the Transport Fund will be approved here for the following period. When it comes to building D3, it is undoubtedly the government's priority. And if you look at the coalition's programming statement, there's an R35 expressway, and then there's an extension of the highway connection with all of our neighbors. Of course, there is also the D3 motorway among those priorities that are included in the motorway connection with our neighbours. As far as the express road from Prague to Písek is concerned, it was not mentioned in the name of your interpelation. I can't give you more details here, but of course I'm ready to send you some written information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u48	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the honourable Member - yes, he wants to ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u49	Thank you, Madam President. The information about the Rakušan is a little untrustworthy for us who drive around here. I understand that you may have the right information, but it's hard for us to understand when it comes from Linz to the north, you could say, "Still six." But one more thing I'd like to mention. The state has long planned to complete one of the major energy investments in southern Bohemia, the completion of the third and fourth block of the Temelín nuclear power plant. This is a construction that is very important to our country. It's a matter of many years into the future. But still, from public opinion polls, this building has a relatively significant tolerance between South Bohemia. But Jihočech Bohemia is also waiting, not only to invest in the core, but also to invest in transport infrastructure. If this circumstance is also known to the Prime Minister, I would like to ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u50	Thank you, and I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u51	Yes, the previous government, with or without the agreement or understanding of the previous government, opened a tender for the completion of another two blocks within the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant, located in the South Bohemia Region. I must say that the new government will still have to assess whether its approach to the construction of these two blocks will be identical to those of the previous ones. First, what will undoubtedly affect our consideration will be the debate on the climate package at European Commission level, because Europe will now re-evaluate its objectives and depends on how the principles of energy policy within the European Union will be set. Once it is clear at European level, and perhaps this could be after the March European Council, we will have an update of the energy concept within the Czech Republic, and the conditions for possible completion of the Temelín tender will undoubtedly result from this. I am saying this because I do not consider it entirely ideal to mix the issue of construction of transport infrastructure in the South Bohemia Region with this significant investment of ČEZ, because I believe that the completion of the main backbone roads that you mentioned in your interpelation will be necessary in any case. It will be necessary in any case. And I do not think that they should be associated with this investment, which, after all, will be financed from other financial resources than the construction of transport infrastructure. The state must be responsible for the construction of express roads in the South Bohemia Region. As regards the construction of another two blocks at the Temelín power plant, there is responsibility for ČEZ, which is owned by the state of 70 percent. I would simply like to point out that the new government is not willing to provide guarantees on the purchase price of electricity, which in the next few decades could dramatically burden either households or companies from the point of view of increased levies as a result of the need to finance the completion of the Temelín power plant. So what we're also interested in is the conditions under which two more blocks in Temelín should stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u52	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Václav Klučka, who was drawn as the eighth, will speak with the next interview. I would like Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u53	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, I did not know until yesterday that I was going to interpel the new government on health regulatory charges, that I would interpel you, Prime Minister. The connection is that yesterday we discussed the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, where, in addition to the implementation of the European Directive, there was a problem for me that sentences appeared in the text of the law in paragraphs which actually identify the no longer existing hospital care fee in their other. We'll fix this, please, we'll get back to this law tomorrow. But I wanted to ask, Prime Minister. The coalition contract was signed as a kind of predominance of coalition responsibility. There are signs of how health fees will continue to work. I assume it will appear in the government's programming statement. However, since the public is discussing these matters, I would like to know, Prime Minister, whether what we have in this coalition treaty will also be the basis for this new government to fully fulfill this promise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u54	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u55	Thank you. Allow me to make a very brief statement on the matter which is most recent from the Member's speech. This relates to the fact that, from 1 January this year, the hospital stay fees which were introduced, I believe, were no longer levied in 2008. This is the result of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the relevant part of the law after a group of social democracies filed a complaint to increase this fee to CZK 100 in the past period. Thus, following a complaint to the Constitutional Court The Constitutional Court annulled the relevant part of the law and it was not replaced by any other provision. Why hasn't she been replaced? The Transitional Government of Jiří Rusnok did not submit an appropriate proposal to replace it, and the proposal was only found in the Chamber of Deputies when it would have meant a renewal of the collection of these charges in hospitals. The emerging coalition naturally addressed this issue. We agreed that from the point of view of access to patients' participation and given that in recent years the cash participation of patients in the financing of healthcare has increased dramatically, the coalition will no longer want to renew the collection of hospital fees. Naturally, this will have to be compensated for by the medical facility. The Minister of Health is preparing a proposal for the government to provide compensation under the health insurance system to the extent of approximately CZK 2 billion. These funds would still be used from government budget reserves sources during 2014. This means that we do not want to leave hospitals without there being some compensation for the fall in income due to the fact that they can no longer collect this stay fee. I am saying this because hospitals have been largely economically damaged by the payment decree of former Minister Heger's government, and this year, even if the situation has improved somewhat, so if we had not compensated hospitals for not collecting fees, it could continue to disrupt and disrupt their economic balance again. As for the fate of the other fees levied in health care today, I want to assure you that part of the coalition contract is an agreement on the cancellation of the fee for a visit to a doctor, the fee for a prescription of CZK 30 will be abolished and only the fee for the use of the emergency room will be left. [[15.30 hours]] These two charges, agreed by the coalition to abolish them, should cease to be levied from 1 January 2015. Why is there no cancellation during the year? We did not consider it reasonable to accumulate the effects of the abolition of charges within a single period of time, and at the same time, we would very much like to see some compensation for outpatient doctors and, in part, for pharmacies, but the government has to address this within the framework of the new payment decree and the government has to address this as part of the next step in increasing payments for state insured persons. So the first step took place on January 1st of this year, when the stay fee was no longer charged. The second step will take place on 1 January 2015, when the fee will cease to be levied by outpatient doctors and the 30 Crown fee will cease to be levied in pharmacies. So this is roughly a plan that will naturally also be described in the forthcoming government programming statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u56	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member - he does not want to ask an additional question, so I ask that Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who was drawn as the ninth, should speak with another interview. And please prepare Mr. Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u57	Good afternoon, Madam President, dear government, colleagues. This Chamber of Deputies was 19. 12. 2013 approved by the State Budget for 2014. The budget was approved with a 2% increase in wages for all civil servants, i.e. members of the security forces. Their salaries, i.e. more precisely the scale of basic tariffs, are determined annually by the government's regulation. And it was the former government of Jiří Rusnok that approved the scale of basic tariffs for members of the security forces for 2014 at its meeting on 18. 12. 2013, i.e. just one day before the approval of the state budget. This is the Government Decree 455 of 2013. However, the basic tariffs scale remained unchanged and are thus exactly the same as for 2013, 2012 and 2011. I don't understand why the former government of Jiří Rusnok couldn't wait that one day, and the approved increase of two percent in wage means could also be reflected in the basic tariff rates for security forces in 2014. The salary increases are currently carried out in the form of an increase in personal evaluation, but this is a non-interest component of the salary and this may result in changes over the course of the year. I ask you, Prime Minister, whether your government will change this regulation in order to reflect the increase in wage resources in the basic tariffs. And if not, how will it be ensured that an approved salary increase of two percent is guaranteed to all members of the security forces throughout this year and to the following years. Members of the security forces would certainly welcome and appreciate such a procedure, as in 2010 they were promised by the Government of Topolánek that the reduction of their salaries of 10 per cent was only for a transitional period of three years. Today, they know what this public promise policy really means. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u58	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u59	Thank you. Dear Member, I can only assure you that the funds that have been increased and there has essentially been a 2% increase in the volume of wage for all public sector employees this year, it has been the decision of the government of Jiří Rusnok and corresponds to the form of the State Budget Act for this year, so that the new government will in no way deprive public sector employees of these funds. This means, we do not, and we do not intend to, any austerity measures or cuts that would mean that these funds will be withdrawn either from the Ministry of the Interior or from any other budget where they are intended to cover the salaries of public sector employees. I do not consider the policy of wage development in the public sector to be happy in recent years. The fact that tariffs were reduced by around 10% was a very unpleasant intervention from the point of view of a number of public sector employees' households and, in my view, a reduction in public sector salaries contributed to the recession. The year-and-a-half-year recession that the Czech economy went through, because it naturally undermined the ability of a part of households to spend. And a sudden wage reduction of 10 percent has also put a number of households, for example, members of the armed forces, in a difficult situation, especially if they have to pay a mortgage or consumer credit and have precisely calculated their income and they have not thought that these revenues should be reduced by 10 percent on a one-off basis. So there is no way that the new government will repeat such a measure. As for the fact that the funds were not reflected in the tariff salary, this is indeed the decision of the previous government. I do not suppose that this government would have changed salary rates during this year, either with members of the security forces or with other public sector employees. Thus, an increase in the volume of appropriations of 2% will be granted to employees in the form of over-the-counter components of salary. But in any case, it is important, and I will certainly talk to the various ministers about it, so that the funds to the public sector's employees can get there. I just want to remind you that with regard to the Ministry of the Interior, which you mentioned in particular, there was also an increase in funds this year related to an increase in the number of security forces by 1, 204 seats. The new government will have to ensure that this increase in funds, which represented about 600 million. CZK, remained in the budget of the Ministry of Interior in the coming years, so that the government does not have to reduce the number of members of the Security Corps again. That's the second goal I'd like to declare. Our goal is to stabilize the security forces. These security forces have been very negatively affected by developments in recent years, particularly in terms of economic uncertainty, on the one hand, in terms of salaries, on the one hand, in terms of investment expenditure and operating expenditure, and our aim is to allow decent stable standard conditions, inter alia, for the functioning of the police, so that police do not have to address the issue of their economic survival, but could focus on what is its main objective - the protection of the safety, health and property of citizens and the investigation of crime. So we are not counting on increasing tariff rates this year. We want to keep these funds permanently in the budget and, at the same time, in the coming years, we would like to try to match the 10% reduction that affected them during Nečasův' reign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u60	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask the Prime Minister an additional question. This is the case, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u61	Let's do it again. Prime Minister, I will respond to the very last sentence from what you just said. Am I to feel that you are now declaring that you will return the 10 percent to the security forces in the following year?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u62	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u63	Dear Member, I believe that this will not be possible within one year. It cannot be imagined that we will be able to find these funds - I am stressing again, especially in the context that this year there has been an increase in the number of members of the security forces. This means that we will have to decompose this measure into several years so as to correct the deformities that have occurred in the past. But I am convinced that the Home Secretary will come up with a proposal to the government on how to fix the problem during the next few years during the term of office of the government and solve the problem. I cannot imagine that, in terms of the state's budgetary possibilities, this distortion could be corrected within one financial year. So it's going to take a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u64	Thank you. I ask that Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who was drawn as the tenth person, speak with another interview. And please prepare Mr Ladislav Šincl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u65	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, at an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies during the discussion of the Service Act, Members of the Government Coalition did not spare statements such as the depoliticalisation and professionalisation of the state administration, everyone has to be qualified and have to undergo demanding selection procedures. If necessary, a professional official must not be worried about a post after each election. [[15.40 hours]] Those are the principles I agree with. I do not understand, however, why the ministers of your government behave quite the other way around. In the absence of time space, I'm going to give you a screaming case. At the Ministry of Finance, he held the position of Director of the Legislative Department since 1993 for a total of ten ministers of three political parties and Michal Švorc. He was dismissed this week and replaced by a lawyer with relatively short practice from law enforcement, i.e. from a completely different discipline than legislation. I could mention a number of such cases. Do you realise, Prime Minister, the devastating psychological impact of this personnel policy on the entire state administration? You are sending out a signal that it does not determine expertise, experience and loyalty, but protect, nepotism and party jurisdiction. I would therefore like to ask two brief questions. Are you serious about your principles on service law? Two. If you are serious, what will you do as Prime Minister to keep your ministers from acting directly against these principles? Thank you for your brief answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u66	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u67	Thank you. Allow me, honourable Member, two responses to your interpellation. First. Since I didn't know exactly what the interpellation was going to be about, I just asked the Finance Minister about Mr. Švorec's fate within the Ministry of Finance's apparatus. I know Mr. Švorec naturally because I had the opportunity to work with him for four years in a position where he was the head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Finance. Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš assured me that he continues to expect cooperation with Mr Švorc and that he should continue to operate in the structures of the Ministry of Finance in the corresponding position. So much for just one quick piece of information I'd like to give you. The second point may be more general, but it concerns all of us. If we all, as we are here, passed the Civil Service Act with all the previous possibilities we had, we wouldn't actually have to have this kind of interpellation anymore. That's what I'm saying because I don't want to get out of it. It was our government that passed the law for the first time in the history of the country, but then, unfortunately, we did not have enough consistency to reach the end of its full effectiveness, nor did the government of the ODS and TOP 09 have enough consistency to bring the Civil Service Act into full force, and only when the law applies, and I hope that it will be on 1 January 2015, that it will create systemic measures for the state administration not to be influenced, dramatically influenced after each election. Only a system where the expert part of the department's apparatus will be separated, when it will be subordinate to the state secretary, when the general director of the public service will be here, only such a standard European system should mean clear certainty for competent qualified honest officials that they do not have to worry about any political changes and cleanliness. I would very much like this government to finally meet the debt that has the entire political representation and to ensure that the Civil Service Act will apply from 1 January next year. I believe that the opposition will also help us in this and support the adoption of the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u68	Thank you. I see that the Member will ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u69	Just a remark, Prime Minister. The law is a minimum of morality. Decent people can behave according to the principles they preach without the fact that a law is effective. I understand from your response that, until the law is effective, you will suffer from your ministers to call off experienced loyal officials with many years of experience and bring political traders from the outside, because in this case, a political trader has been replaced without any experience in legislative practice and an experienced official who has served twenty years for the ministers of five political parties and two administrative governments. I respect that you're prepared to suffer this, but I think the law is a minimum of morality and that you shouldn't suffer it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u70	Thank you. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u71	Thank you. If our intention succeeds, we no longer have to worry about this as of 1 January 2015. There will be clear rules to protect the state administration from unauthorized interference. And until then, individual members of the government are responsible. I assume that they will behave professionally and will not allow the apparatus of their resorts to be devastated in any way by unprofessional intervention. I believe that it will not repeat what took place at the time of the previous government, for example, at the Ministry of Environment, which became a branch of the ODS Regional Association in Prague 6, or at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which became Eldorado for the business activities of Mr Šiška and his business friends. I hope that such mistakes and such stories will in no way be repeated by the new government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u72	Thank you. Mr. Ladislav Šincl, who was drawn as the eleventh, will speak with the next interview. Please prepare Mrs. Miroslava Němcová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u73	Dear Prime Minister, the amount of old-age pensions in the Czech Republic has increased only minimally since January 2014. Crushing most pensioners by a maximum of a few ridiculous ten crowns a month. The basic pension period increased from CZK 2, 330 to CZK 2,340 and the percentage will increase by 0.4 %. You know that, starting January 2013, pensions grow by only one third of inflation and one third of real wage growth. Government coalition ODS, TOP 09 and PEOPLE pushed through this lower valorization. The then Minister of Finance, Miroslav Kalousek of the TOP 09, originally proposed a complete freezing of pension growth. In three years, the former government wanted to save a total of 47.7 billion. Crowns. Sadly, for those who can't defend themselves at all, it's up to the elderly. Thanks to the current ridiculous valorisation of pensions and the constant increase in real pensions, real pensions are falling. Moreover, pensioners who wish to improve their pension legally were punished by the former government for their efforts and were deprived of more money. Since 2013 revenues, they cannot deduct from taxes the basic tax discount of CZK 24,840 per year. This applies to all taxable income. Pensioners would thus pay more for income tax than just income from employment or jobs, but even if they have a business or, for example, income from rental property. So I have a question for you whether you want to change it and improve the situation of pensioners in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u74	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u75	Thank you for opening up a topic that is important for a large part of our society. I see the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs here. I firmly believe that they are already writing a bill amendment at the Ministry, which will change the system of pension valorization. From a legislative point of view, it is important for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to discuss the proposal by the beginning of this autumn, so I assume that the proposal will be submitted to the legislative process shortly. We agreed, within the government coalition, that we would return to paying pensions according to inflation, that is, we would not pretend that there was only one third of the increase in drug, housing, and retirement food. This applies to 100 percent of them, i.e. valorisation must include one hundred percent of inflation growth in the previous year. If we manage to pass the law this year, then there is a chance that from 1 January next year there will be a proper pension valorisation and that we will leave the unfortunate policy of the past government of Petr Nečas, which has reduced the rate of pension valorization for two years, and therefore the pension rate in the Czech Republic is really falling and the purchasing power of pensioners is falling. I think it's very negative. I just want to point out that what was absolutely heartless was a combination of several steps that all were directed towards pensioners. First, a reduction in pension valorisation. Second, an increase in the fee for stay in the hospital from 60 to 100 crowns. Third, canceling the discount for working pensioners, which you mentioned. Fourth, the reduction of the social contribution in the lowest group, where it decreased to CZK 800. These were all steps that were directed towards one group. And that last step was the dramatic increase in the drug payments we've been recording over the past few years. [[15.50 hours]] So it is evident that last time, Nečasův' government has dramatically negatively targeted pensioners and has been trying, in particular, to make savings in the cost of the state budget at their expense. It was unfair, it was socially insensitive, and in no way does the new government want to proceed in this way. However, what is important is that we also mobilise the revenue of the State, the resources of the State, to cover expenditure on higher pension valorisation without increasing the deficit of the state budget. For the next year, it will mean that we will have to find an additional CZK five to six billion to cover the higher valuation of pensions. Of course, these resources will be sought by the government in particular in terms of saving operating expenditure and also in terms of increasing tax collection, especially in terms of reducing tax evasion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u76	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. He doesn't. Very well. I ask that Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who, in this case, was drawn as number 12. And I ask that Mr Šincl be reprepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u77	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you with a question you will not hear for the first time, and you have heard it here today, and this question concerns a conflict of interest. And unfortunately, because this will be a permanent conflict of interests of the Minister of Finance for the entire time that this government exists, we will be dealing with this issue in some way. You have told us here in one of the previous responses that it is possible to avoid this conflict of interest in a formal way by the fact that the Minister of Finance always announces either in the House or I assume in the Government that he is currently in conflict of interest, or that this is a decision regarding his business, his companies. Just because he gave up managing his companies or left management functions doesn't mean that he doesn't own this company anymore, that any purchase, any movement in that company will not be done by him, that any acquisition will not be strategically managed by him directly. And I'm sure you'll get into this conflict of interest, for example. the moment he decides who will be the manager of the state's material reserves, who will decide that grain will be stored in the forces of Agrofert or somewhere else. And while you're telling me, Prime Minister, that the Minister of Finance is going to tell us that he's in a conflict of interest, I want to hear what you're going to do. How you as Prime Minister will ensure that this conflict of interest, which threatens all of us taxpayers, does not take place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u78	Thank you, Madame. And I give the floor to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u79	Thank you. Madam, I think we need to distinguish two things. Processes that have their origin in the past, i.e. at a time when the current finance minister was not yet in office and was not a member of the government, and processes that would be an event. founded within the scope of this government on the basis of decisions of the current government. As far as the first area is concerned, things related to the past. You, for example, are. she mentioned one of them, i.e. the question of the storage of a part of the stocks of national tangible reserves. That's not something this government would decide. And the government couldn't influence it in any way. Even in the last parliamentary term, when social democracy was in opposition for seven years, the people were not at all in the House and the ANO movement did not even exist. This means that these processes, I think, cannot be mentioned in the context of any conflict of interest in the sense that this government might be responsible for it. As regards matters relating to the future and any other decision taken by the State or its components or by the State controlled companies, we will naturally act in such a way that we do not find ourselves in any conflict of interest. The point is to proceed transparently in order to organise standard tenders so that there can be no shadow of doubt that there is a victory of some private interest over the interest of society and public interest. I assume that even the opposition will watch over these things very carefully, that is, after all, the role of the parliamentary opposition, and in the event that something like this threatens to happen, that we can also count on the fact that the opposition and we will be alerted to potential risks. I want to promise for the government that we will do everything we can to prevent any suspicion of any possible conflict of interest and to set standards and procedures such that something like this is not possible at all. So the good will on the side of the government is clearly here. We're ready to deal with the risks. But otherwise, of course, when it comes to the knowledge of the process at Agrofert, I guess I'm not the person who should know these things in detail or describe them with some details.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u80	Thank you, Prime Minister. And I see that the honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u81	Thank you. I'm 100% sure, Prime Minister, that you knew I wasn't asking you about the internal processes that are going on inside Mr. Babiš's companies. I asked you how you personally will guarantee that there will be no conflict of interest on his part with the interests of taxpayers, citizens of the Czech Republic, you as Prime Minister. You explained your good will to me, and I want to take it seriously. Unfortunately, I just need to remind you of the first press conference you had as the government that represented yourself, the future coalition, where Mr Babiš presented more his company Agrofert than the interests of the emerging coalition. I saw well from the TV screen how you had your heads down because you understood, not only that it is politically very bad, because you are moving in politics and you understand these things, but you also felt that this is the conflict of interest for which we will necessarily criticise you. So if we've been through this before, live, don't be surprised that we're asking what you're going to do about it. I take that promise seriously. Of course, at this point, I must take him seriously from you as the new Prime Minister. But you must take seriously the fact that we will, of course, watch you very much in this regard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u82	Thank you and please the Prime Minister to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u83	Thank you. I won't talk much longer. I understand that the opposition will follow these things. I think that's quite appropriate. We are ready to listen to what the opposition is saying, and if there are relevant facts, relevant information, then naturally the government will also work with them to prove that we defend as a whole government coalition, like all coalition parties, clearly the interest of the citizens of the Czech Republic and that this is not about giving priority to any private or business interests. It's just how we're determined to proceed. And now I'm not just saying this for social democracy, but I want to make this clear for all three coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u84	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Ladislav Šincl, who was drawn as the thirteenth, will speak with the next interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u85	Thank you, Madam President. This interpelation is once again on the topic of regular valorisation of old-age pensions, where the vast majority of pensioners were raised by only a ridiculous few tens of crowns, i.e. only a third of inflation and a third of the growth of real wages, which was pushed through by the government coalition ODS, TOP 09 and LID. The Prime Minister assured me and all pensioners in the Czech Republic in the last reply that he would change this bad practice and enforce the full valorisation of pensions. That's why I'm giving up my interpellation and all the following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u86	Thank you. We acknowledge this. I beg you with another interview to perform Mr. Václav Klučka, who was drawn as number 14.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u87	Thank you, Madam President. I'm just afraid we won't fit into the 16th hour limit, but please. Cyber security. As I have found some kind of instruction in the coalition agreement to interpel to health fees, I must say that I have found nothing about cyber security in the coalition agreement. I assume that we will find this in a government statement, or in a legislative plan of the government, because we are also facing the problem of approving this House in the first reading... Sorry, not in '90s... But pass at first reading the Cyber Security Act, which has been processed in this company for about three years. I just want to make sure the Prime Minister's question that the fact that this is not in the coalition treaty is not underestimating the area of cyber security and that the government has this phenomenon, which is very necessary to ensure the security of this state, that the government is counting on this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u88	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u89	Thank you. I do not have much time, I just want to assure the Member that this is the case, the law is put forward, the government has not withdrawn it, it means that we want to continue the legislative process, and I am looking forward to the legislative process, I will bring the law to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Naturally, I am ready to discuss both with the governments and with the opposition to approve the standard in a modern form and to make it a really useful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u90	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question. He doesn't want to. I am forced to warn the Chamber of Deputies that the 16th hour has passed, i.e. the time has elapsed when it is possible to submit the last oral question to the Prime Minister under the Rules of Procedure. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u91	Good afternoon. I would like to call on Mr Miroslav Kalousek to present his intervention on the Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš, so he began a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mrs Olga Havlová will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u92	Thank you for the floor. I regret to say, Mr Minister, that your personnel policy in practice contrasts sharply with the principles that you and your political movement advocate in the negotiation of the service law. In all cases, I'm going to mention one loud one. This week you called off the Director of the Legislative Department, i.e. from a purely professional post, JUDr. Michal Švorec, who held this post for 20 years, since 1993, for a total of ten ministers from five political parties, for two civil servants. You called him off on the third day in your office and replaced him with a man with relatively short legal practice from a completely different discipline than legislation. In other words, you called off an experienced expert, replaced him with a political trader. Do you realise, Minister, the devastating impact of this step on the state administration? You are sending out a signal that your protection and belonging to your movement is far more important than qualifications, expertise, experience and loyalty to the workplace. I would like to ask two simple questions, and I very much ask for an evasive answer. First, what fundamental professional misconduct did Švorc. That he had to be removed from office on the third day after you came to the ministry? In particular, I am interested in what challenging selection procedure - because you are accentuating demanding selection procedures in the negotiation of the Service Act - has been passed by its successor and what transparent process did you conclude that his successor is the best possible candidate. I ask for a brief and evasive answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u93	Thank you, honourable Member. Before I give the floor to the Minister, apologies - Minister Jourová from this afternoon's meeting, Mr Komárek for personal reasons and Mr Matěj Fichtner. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u94	Colleagues, colleagues, good day again. Speaking of political marketers, I must say that this is your practice in the long run. We, of course, had a problem with this from the outset as part of the coalition negotiations. We haven't nominated any political traders anywhere. Dr. Pelikán is the son of a well-known lawyer, renowned, and he's no political trader. We have nominated eight political people who are not members of the political movement. I understand that in the past, you've always had every deputy in your life to do business for that party, like Mr. Zajíček's case with Mr. Kalousek in the past. And as for Dr. Švorec, I spoke to him and asked about his work. And he said to me, "I sign invoices." And I'm like, "What invoices?" "Well, you know, the State Representation Institute sues Switzerland for $2 billion." Mr Kalousek forgot to sue the 14 billion, and we all remember that he forgot about it and didn't claim the money that belongs to the Czech state. So Mr. Švorc checks the invoices. And I say, "What else do you do?" "Well, I'm checking the invoices." "Do you actually choose lawyers?" "No, no, I'm not doing that, it's the Constitution." The Ministry of Finance works absolutely decentralized, which means that even for criminal charges, 200 grand is paid. Last year, the Treasury paid 57 million for legal services. Our strategy is different. We want not to decentralize, but to insource. We would like to employ new law graduates who have trouble finding jobs, not just external law firms. This state has an additional cost of 34 billion. to traffic. Yes? So, no stockbrokers. And Dr. Švorc remains in exactly the same position at the Ministry, but there is a merger of all legal services, because every department in the Ministry orders lawyers. Everyone does what they want. Yes? So we'll centralize it, and Dr. Švorc will perform the exact same function. So, Mr. Kalousek, stay calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u95	Thank you, Minister. With the addition, please, to Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u96	You're lying, Minister. Dr. Švorc will not be head of the legislative department, he is removed from that position. He's gonna stay there and work for that political newsman, I guess. Someone's got to work for a political newsman. And you're lying about the work of the director of the legislative department. You don't have to ask that, you can read it in the organizational order. It is not true that the Director of the Legislative Department only controls invoices. You're lying about him staying in office. You haven't answered a single question. In particular, you didn't answer me how the newsman became the best suitable candidate, because your decision is as absurd as if the hospital director had appointed a young X-ray surgeon's chief of surgery. Of course, he can become chief of surgery, but not until a few years later at the appropriate workplace. This is just political protection for political junkies, and you're a liar!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u97	I ask for an additional reply from the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u98	I would just repeat that a new sector of legislation is being created and Dr Švorc will continue to do legislation. And Dr. Pelikán was just as chosen as your criminally prosecuted Radek Šnábl, your brilliant arbitrary collector, who had his wife billed there for his wife and a criminal complaint filed against him. And you took him to the Treasury Department, and he's already been prosecuted for tax fraud. So I don't think we have anything to blame for. Dr. Pelikán is a reputable lawyer, and he's absolutely clean, unlike your cadres you had.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u99	Thank you, Minister. I now give the floor to Member Olza Havlová, who was drawn in second place, to present oral interpellation to Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Mr Radek Vondráček will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u100	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the situation in the management of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic. As you say in the interviews, the situation in the Forests of the Czech Republic is one of your priorities. You want to complete the selection of the new Director-General and change the system for awarding timber contracts so that small and medium-sized regional enterprises can get to them. Therefore, I would like to ask how long the company will remain head of the company by the director-in-chief Michal Sýkora, who was directly responsible for the irregularities in the management of the state enterprise, which was also pointed out by the Supreme Audit Office and investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic. I just remind you that Mr Gaube has been running the business temporarily since 1 December 2012. When are you going to write a transparent tender for the Director of the Forests of the Czech Republic? Will you also try to depolitize the supervisory board of this state enterprise? [[16.10 hours]] How will you deal with the management of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic, where according to the Supreme Audit Office there are proven leaks in hundreds of millions of crowns on procurement, information technology, media services, advertising or legal services? You're going to review the so-called wooden books, the current appearance of which is recorded to large timber companies at the expense of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic? Now these large companies have the opportunity to cut down the trees, take them away and sell them themselves, thereby increasing their profits and substantially tunnelling the forests of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u101	Thank you. I will now ask for the answer of the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have your word and your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u102	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues. Thank you for the questions that have been raised because they are really topical and I would say almost acute. As regards the first thing that has been said, how long will it take for Mr Gaube to be in charge of this business, as I have announced, to resolve this situation within a few weeks, within a month of taking up. This week I will finish meeting with the selection process, which took place in which there are six candidates, I want to invite all six candidates to a personal meeting during next week so that I can personally ask them some of the questions that arose to me when I was getting to know the materials they submitted during the selection procedure, so that I can then decide and choose the new CEO. So far, I have no reason to say that I can fundamentally question the procedure as it has been written and as it has been done. As regards matters relating to the change in the management of the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic, I personally consider the current system for the sale of wood to be not very happy. I don't know which one of us would sell like that if it was his own forest. I don't think many of us could have been found. However, I am aware that this cannot be done on a one-time basis, from year to year in its entirety, and I want to open a debate on the updating of a wooden book with an agricultural professional public, and that we are able to systematically move towards changing the way in which the government operates and to change the way in which wood is sold. For me, it is important that the only and the main criterion is not only profit, but also that we are able to look at social aspects, job creation, support for the wood-processing industry, which are things that bring us different effects for the whole of society, for the whole state. When it comes to depoliticizing the Supervisory Board, I have commissioned, at this point, analyzed the composition of all supervisory boards and other bodies, all subordinate organisations that fall under the Ministry of Agriculture, and I will also plan personnel changes here, with the fact that expertise is the main criterion for me, not a political or party book. As regards advertising services, IT contracts, legal services, which are used to quite a large extent not only in the Czech Forests but also in other organizations, I have suspended all things and decisions by the Minister's decision today. Without the Minister's knowledge, the directors of the organizations cannot implement these things. This includes personnel matters up to the level of executives, so that we can now monitor the situation for some time and what is going on in these organizations to avoid any further damage. I had a meeting at the Department of Agriculture with Mr Gaube on Monday night, and we also talked about these things there. I'm going to want to be within my department, and I'm going to try to have a government-level debate on how and under what conditions the sponsorship of state-owned companies for other public activities takes place, because companies that are, say, long-term in loss and sponsor large sports and other projects, so I think that's a thing that's not normal. So much in brief. If I answered the main of the key questions, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u103	I thank the Minister and ask the Member if she has an additional question. The Member does not have an additional question. Therefore, I ask Mr Radek Vondráček to present his intervention, Mr Adolf Beznoska will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u104	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to act as a dwarf here to interpel my own minister, but on the basis of some civil documents I would like to use the Institute of Interpelation to open a wider public debate as regards the amendment of the Enforcement Order. My interpelation is directed to Article 42 of the Enforcement Order, which has been amended since 1. 1. 2014 and on the basis of which the executioner may also affect property which does not form part of the spouse's joint property, only because, by decision of the court, the joint property of the spouse has been abolished or its existing scope restricted, or that the contract has narrowed the scope of the spouse's joint property, that a separate property regime has been negotiated, or that the contract has reserved the creation of a joint property on the date of termination of the marriage. This inconspicuous amendment to the order of execution results in a disability of income from dependent activities, funds in bank accounts for the debts of the other husband, who caused them even before marriage. Following this particular question, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice whether it is possible to assume some gradual partial amendment that would remove the most pressing problems that are bothering us - and that we are burdened with and that this is a social issue, which we have all convinced ourselves about in contact with voters - or whether a complex amendment to the order of execution is expected to help us resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u105	I thank the honourable Member and ask Minister Válková for a kind answer. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, honourable Members, the question asked by Mr Vondráček in the context of the interview has also been the subject of mediation. Several specific cases have also appeared in law firms that have to deal with this and inform them in the spirit of what has been presented here a moment ago, or that it is true that, if there is a debt to be recovered, it can also be executed on property that arose prior to marriage, even in those cases under the new text, when the court's decision to abolish the joint property of the spouses or of course narrowed it down, or the contract narrowed the scope of the joint property of the spouses, in an exhaustive manner, or a separate property regime was negotiated, or the contract reserved the creation of a joint property at the date of the termination of the marriage. It is basically all possible forms of how to exclude or limit the joint property of spouses. However, in such cases, in accordance with the applicable wording, the execution of property may be carried out, even if it is a debt incurred prior to the marriage. I was familiar with the intervention so early, about two hours ago, that I had the opportunity to talk to those who were involved in the creation of a new, virtually. they wrote a new Civil Code, which was really small, but what they didn't know about the scale and meaning of the big change, they learned it ex post and considered it very important. This means that when we have divided gaps, shortcomings, errors in the new Civil Code and related legislation within the framework of legislative work, and in this case it is an indirect link, an execution order that has been amended in connection with the acquisition of the new Civil Code, I would say that it will be category A. This means a very quick correction of this error, because no one has yet come forward and no one has explained why this change has occurred. So thank you for the question, even in the sense that I'm going to keep digging. [[16.20 hours]] I would like to put this point more personally among the acute ones, because when you think about it, it would basically have an impact on the already pitiful state of marriage in the Czech Republic, and it would probably even strengthen the trend in which we are leading, I suspect that we are at one of the leading points in Europe of the marriage-free partnership, which has its pluses, but many minuses too. So that would be indirect support for this form of coexistence of partners. I don't know if that's what the legislator meant. I don't think so. The comprehensive amendment to all regulations related to the new Civil Code will be prepared for 2015. But as I say, personally, I am more in favour of adopting this amendment in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u107	Thank you, Minister. The Member shall report on the completion of his interpellation. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u108	I would have an additional question, because I understand the current situation rather that a slight amendment to the procedural standard may have led to the denial of several substantive institutes contained in the Civil Code. First question: What is the factual significance of the prenup? For example, when starting a business, what is the factual significance of the option of the participants to abolish the joint property of the spouses, when it does not really matter when making commitments? So I hope I got it right, that if we have these substantive institutes both in the old and in the new Civil Code, then the right way would be to cancel or modify the procedural standard. That it is not the amendment of the Civil Code, but the amendment of the Enforcement Order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister to complete her reply. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u110	I would add that in the sense that it is necessary first to look into the legislator's intention, which apparently was not conducted in this way, because procedural standards should never modify the substantive institutions. But it is the authors of the substantive institutions - now I will not name two women, the capacities that have been involved in the paragrafo version of the relevant areas regulating marital and family law in the new Civil Code, so they are very critical. They say they weren't even informed. So I think that first we need to decipher how this happened and why the result is what it is. And then, of course, cancel what in part in my result - I would not agree here that this completely contradicts the meaning of the so-called. premarital contracts, because they have other purposes and other objectives that they pursue, not only in the area of debt recovery, of course, but they certainly limit their importance in such an indirect process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u111	Thank you, Minister. I will now ask Mr Adolf Beznoska, who has an interview with the Minister of Finance. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u112	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister of Finance, Babiš. Rather, I overheard or read in the press the story of two companies - Explosia and Synthesia, with Explosia being a company owned by the state. Property rights in it are exercised by the Ministry of Finance, and it is a company in debt. This company is very closely linked to the company Synthesia, owned by Agrofert. Synthesia is also the main supplier of raw materials for Explosia - nitrocellulose, nitric acid, ice, as well as its main creditor. And so I wanted to ask, because there is a conflict of interest here, if, first of all, the Ministry of Finance is considering and counting, virtually. Government, with the sale of Explosia. Secondly, whether the Minister of Finance can confirm or exclude that Agrofert will participate in any interest or would be interested in buying the Explosie. And thirdly, if the Minister can rule out the Ministry of Finance's funding or pressure on Explosion's leadership to ensure that its debt is withdrawn so that it is ready and clean for sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u113	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister of Finance for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u114	I thank the honourable Member very much for that question. I was delighted because Minister Kalousek has already helped the company. I had no idea that there was actually a Prisko company, which Minister Kalousek sent a hundred million crowns on the last day of office. And then he blew out $250 million to upgrade his equity, because his buddy's doing the detonator business, they say, "explosion workers." So that's great news, I'm glad I can talk about it here. It's true that Explosia is in bad shape. And who was driving it? Well, I don't know about the Treasury Department. I don't know how the boys ran the place. So the fact that he owes our company Synthesia is true, and I'm sure we're worried about it because the state should run its companies properly. And I made it clear that I would transfer the Explosion, I don't know how yet, Minister Mládek, because that conflict of interest is clear there. And our company supplies raw materials and supplies steam and I don't know what else. It was once a company. I can absolutely rule out Agrofert seeking this company. So I'm happy to transfer it to Secretary Mládek. I hope the Prime Minister will back it up. I need to find out how it's done. And again, there's no way we're interested in Explosia, if I have here, I'm sorry to speak for Agrofert, but that's how it was laid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u115	Thank you, Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. We are also going to interpel Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, Mr Andrej Babiš, Minister of Finance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Václav Klučka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u116	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members. Minister, I would like to ask you what the Government's position on the accession of the Czech Republic to the euro area will be, that is to say, the adoption of the euro. According to recent public opinion polls, 76 percent of Czech citizens reject the adoption of the euro. I recently read on you owned north iDNES.cz According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic and your colleague from the Government of Mr Lubomír Zaorálek, the adoption of the euro will be a clear priority for the current government. Mr Zaorálek said that there is no alternative but the euro. You were a few days ago, exactly 22nd January 2014, for your owned server iDNES.cz expressed that - and I quote - you certainly have no problem accepting the euro without guaranteeing Greece's or Spain's commitments. If you do not know this as Minister of Finance, we will automatically guarantee our commitment to join the euro area. So can you explain to me how you intend to ensure that the Czech Republic does not guarantee the debts of other states? Can you explain to us why you want to go against the will of 76 percent of our fellow citizens and a number of economic experts who refuse to accept the euro? And how do you want to meet the criteria for adopting the euro when your government increases the state budget deficit? I would also like to know the date when you want to adopt the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u117	I thank the Member and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, if the iDNES server quoted something, I just demented the iDNES balances on the CNB's accounts yesterday, which, once again, were 350 billion. In March 2013, an average of 300 billion, but the Prime Minister explained that. The adoption of the euro is certainly not the goal of our coalition. We never talked about it, and if Mr. Zaorálek is talking about it, I don't know what it's coming from. Our economy is not ready to adopt the euro, although, of course, we are meeting some basic criteria. I do not know where the Member has come up with the idea that we want to indebt, that we want to increase the deficit. Today, Mr Kalousek asked what the target was, and I made it clear, even though the budget is approved at 112, that I would like to get under 100, so we should listen to what is said here. I have expressed myself that I do not see, if ever, and maybe, I do not know if it will be a question of referendum, it can be a social debate, whether the euro, citizens can comment on it, whether we want it or not. I have said that this will not be sooner than six years from now, according to my estimation and knowledge, and it is essentially not a task for the existing coalition government, so I do not know exactly what the Member is actually drawing information from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u119	I thank the Minister and ask for my question of Mr Liberty. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u120	Thank you. I draw them from open sources and draw them from the statements made by Minister Zaorálek and from your statements. I asked you five questions, I didn't get an answer. Please. But one question is essential. You said you wouldn't have a problem with accessing the euro if we didn't pay Greece and Spain's debts. So I'm asking you how you're going to arrange it when paying debts is a conditio sine qua non.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u121	I thank the Member, I ask the Minister of Finance. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u122	I would rather ask why the right-wing government, and especially the ODS, did not allow Kalousek to enter the fiscal pact. Why didn't Nečas tell him? That's what Kalousek wanted. And that's what we want. And that's the first step. If the ODS felt that the Czech Republic was England, so far we do not have the island or the oil or the gas, and that is how we should behave and not make big shoulders in the European Union. The first step, if we really want to work in the European Union and not have the reputation of the one who just kicks his ankles and is corrupt, we will definitely want to start with the fiscal pact that I think is within today when you were in the coalition, so you're against it, today you're opposition, so you'll probably think that we should be budgetaryly reasonable and rational, and I personally will definitely support it and we can start with that fiscal pact. And if you're referring to some formulation from some election meeting you read somewhere on iDNES, I don't think that's relevant. The position today is, surely the coalition is not seeking to adopt the euro. Let's start with the fiscal pact, I'll design it, and that'll be the beginning. I'm sure the opposition will support me, because we're middle-rights, and I don't think we're gonna get any tax increases here, and most entrepreneurs are happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u123	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Václav Klučka, who will present an interview with the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, came forward with another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to say that in this interview, I am a little bit biased about its content, because I have worked very closely with both the two gentlemen of the police presidents, both Lessy and Červíček, during the previous term of office, and not only during the meeting in the Committee on Security, but also during the meeting of the subcommittee for the Police of the Czech Republic and other activities. So this was not just a meeting but a really close cooperation. The problem that arose at the Police Presidium made me quite sad because in his own way he was losing the effort both of them had to make the work of the police work that would be recognized in society. In addition, Martin Červíček was promoted to general, and then there is actually a conclusion that will most likely not give him any future. I would like to ask you, Minister, yesterday a more fundamental decision has been made to allow the public not only to say these things, but also to indicate how this will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'll ask the Home Secretary for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I've had my chronology drawn out. efforts to put off police presidents, and it is very strange that the effort began in September 2011. As early as September 2011, on the basis of a newspaper article, the steps that led to the removal of Police President Lessy began, and we know the whole development. It's two pages that describe the life of two from my point of view of good policemen. I've met both gentlemen, and I understand that I don't have a careerist or two cops in front of me wanting to erase each other, but I have two cops who were dragged into a story that they haven't caused, which have beaten the stories very hard, ruined their reputation, ruined their careers, and that I have two police officers who think well with the police. And they said one thing and the same thing: we're just about to win our reputation back so we can stay with the police, and neither of us are interested in being a police president anymore. That was the environment I came into. I understand they're primarily short of decent treatment that wasn't given. I really appreciate the deal we made. The deal wasn't easy for me. I imagined that one or both of them would participate in the next election of the police president. They're both strictly rejecting it. From my point of view, it would be a great shame if they left the Police of the Czech Republic, and I do not hide that they told me their ambitions. Mr. Police President Lessy has the ambition to move into international relations and become an envoy of the Czech police in Slovakia. If the acting police president, or the newly appointed president, sends him there, I have no problem with that. Mr. President Červíček says one thing. I don't want to stay in the Police Presidium system, it wouldn't be reasonable. And you, Mr. Ambassador, have pointed out a great absurdity. We're gonna promote this police officer to the general's condition, and we're gonna start the appeal process. This has nothing to do with logic. Not with human decency anymore either. General Červíček has the ambition to lead some of the regions, and I think his place is there. If there's a chance to put him there, and the police president who takes up his duties will send him there, I'll have no problem with that again. The problem was that we found that when I said it very figuratively - when a police president in Prague was hit by a car and the police president was sick for six months, the deputy would automatically represent him. When the same police president resigns from his post, he must be represented by a lower-grade officer. These are some nonsense of the Service Act and some police regulations that must be removed. We are currently creating a statutory deputy so that after leaving Petr Lessy automatically after 28 February he can represent the Deputy Police President. He'll be Mr. Tuhý. He will represent the Police President for a period of time strictly necessary. [[16.40 hours]] Likewise, in agreement with President Lessy, and it was a flagship of his program when he came to the Police Presidium, it was the creation of an economic deputy. The police need economic stability, it is not there today, so the role of economic deputy police president will be created, where the new police president will take his deputy for finance through the selection procedure. If we decide to go through a tender procedure, then at that time we will decide, I guess, between three and four candidates. If we decide - and we discuss this in the coalition, with the public, with the unions and on this soil - that we will take the path of the competition, it will involve about 30 police officers who can apply for the post of police President. But then let's say that if we refuse a police officer in the 11th grade during the tender procedure, they can no longer take part in the second tender. We must consider very much what path we will take. I am prepared to have a very detailed discussion on this both with the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and with the Senate Committees. That's the way we lead. They must be headed for police stabilization. And I want to send out a clear signal that the police have one jersey, and that's a uniform. He doesn't have a uniform with Petr Lessy's badge, he doesn't have a uniform with Martin Červíček's badge, and for that I thank both gentlemen that the story ended yesterday. And thank you for the question, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u127	Thank you, Minister. To complement Mr Václav Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u128	I am well aware of the fact that I have been very active in the interpelations at this counter and from the previous term, but in truth, the very specific answers that I have now faced on a rather serious issue and the question, I have not noticed much here. It is absolutely satisfying for me, and I think for those who will listen to it in media means that this answer fully captures the situation that will follow. No further questions. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u129	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister, do you want to answer how you do it, that you do it so well? Thank you. Mrs Kovářová came forward with another interview with the Minister of the Interior, and Mr Vojtěch Adam will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u130	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the Minister on the current situation in the Czech Post state enterprise. I was pleased to welcome the Minister's statement on Sunday's Questions to Václav Moravec, according to which the Ministry of the Interior will do everything possible to maintain the network of postal branches in its current form. This is, I think, good news for the Czech and Moravian countryside, from which a petition for rescue of the post office recently emerged, under which the Association of Local Authorities has gathered more than 100,000 signatures. However, I would like to point out the problem of municipalities in whose case the Czech Post has been seeking to cancel its branch for a long time, and in some of these municipalities, according to my information, there is a strong pressure to cancel mail even these days. I believe that the Czech Post should withdraw from these activities, even with respect to your Sunday announcements. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you, as a representative of the Czech Post State Company, to act immediately on this matter. I would like to make sure that your words in Václav Moravka's questions apply, and at the same time ask if you could outline your ideas about the Czech Post in the coming months or years. I sincerely hope that I will also get the perfect answer as in the previous case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u131	I thank the Member and ask the Minister for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u132	Mr President, Madame Member, I still consider myself more of a local regional policy and a former governor who knows that where the trade ends, where the school ends and where the post office ends, life ends there. This means my statement, which I had in Questions by Václav Moravec, that we will fight for every branch of the Czech Post that makes sense, pays and will pay. I have a discussion with the Prime Minister. I think that's the government's position. Czech Post is an important employer and is a public service provider. We need to think about whether we are willing to pay for this public service. Czech Post is currently still generating a profit of approximately CZK 300 million. The question is whether trends that are set in the development of the financial health of the Czech Post show that without help and without so-called. Czech Post is able to generate this profit in the long term. I'm afraid so far from the very superficial information I have, I don't. This means that we will now deal with the medium and long-term outlook of the Czech Post and I will come here before this plenary about a month, within a month and a half, with the first proposal to stabilise the Czech Post and its development. I have already had the opportunity to meet with the Director General, I will meet him again today at 21:00, and one of the topics will be precisely to put pressure on the cancellation of branches at least until this analysis is carried out. I cannot rule out the fact that some branches of the Czech Post will be cancelled in units of pieces in agreement with the Mayor, in agreement with the Governor, and in this spirit I informed the President of the Hašek Association that I call on him to cooperate with me on, among other things, the topic of the development of the Czech Post. The way of franchises that work all over the world is one of the ways we can try. But it cannot be an attempt by the Czech Post to force its branch of the community at all costs. We need to set the economic conditions for the municipality or any of the chains to be interested in operating these franchises, to operate them under the head of the Czech Post and to be functional. This means that until we find a direction that will be functional, efficient and economically manageable, I am not prepared to allow any major cancellation of the branches of the Czech Post. I am ready to discuss with representatives of towns and villages, I am ready, as I said, to discuss with regional representatives. The new challenges I was talking about, this can't be purely about the state sending a subsidy to the Czech Post Office and spending it. These new challenges may be new services at czechpoints, such as the vehicle register. These challenges may be that the Czech Post can process hosting services for state organizations, that the Czech Post can solve IT services, that the Czech Post can solve central purchases. I will certainly discuss all this with the Minister of Finance Babiš in the coming months. Otherwise, thank you for the question. I consider the mail to be a very important organization of the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u133	I thank the Minister and ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u134	Dear Minister, thank you very much for the nice performance and the excellent answer. I'll be looking forward to another one in a month and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u135	Thank you, ma'am. The Minister won't respond because he's doing great here, too. Mr Vojtěch Adam came forward with another interview, and Mrs Anna Putnová will be prepared because Mrs Černochová withdrew the interview number 9. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u136	Mr President, Minister, I have already delivered this interview at this point in May last year, but since it is still up to date, I will now repeat it. Its basic motto is that opaque payments from health insurance companies can, under certain circumstances, cover private assignments. This creates conditions for a corrupt environment. Despite the promises of unification of payments for several years and still have not been made, it should not be possible for public health insurance money to create health insurance companies in an opaque way, so-called contractual. package prices for health performances. This is a million-dollar amount for health care payments, completely without public control. [[16.50 hours]] Question for you, Minister. At a time when there is great pressure on the development of the outpatient part, for example, in the form of one-day surgery, this activity is replaced solely by contractual arrangements for package prices between health insurance companies and providers. Similarly, these are contractual prices for total hip and knee replacements. It would be most appropriate for these price lists to be public. It would declare them within the framework of the VZP conciliation procedure and would apply to all medical entities providing such services and having a contractual relationship with the health insurance undertaking. It would be a step that would simply be feasible and, above all, in the right direction. It would suddenly be quite clear in this area. What's stopping it so far, Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u137	I thank the Member and ask the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what I have heard here, I must say that I have to agree with a large part of this interpelation. I think it's really wrong that the public, both the broad one and the professional one, isn't exactly informed about how many health care establishments, how much payment they receive from health insurance companies. But I think because you said that you already gave this interpellation in May last year, that I have good news for you after all. Since a programme declaration will be drawn up on the basis of a coalition agreement, and this health programme statement envisages that all contracts between health insurance companies and health care establishments, like between health care establishments and their suppliers, will be public. I don't really see any problem with citizens knowing what health insurance pays for, how much, what conditions are there and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u139	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the Member if he is interested in an additional question. The MP doesn't have it. I therefore thank the Minister and the Member. I will now ask Mrs Anna Putnová, who has an interview with the Minister of Education, Mr Marcel Chládek. Please, madam, you have the floor. Mr Petr Bendl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u140	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the middle of last year, both professional and lay public has been discussing the forms of transfer of professorship to university teachers. A lot of time has passed since the university handed over their nominations to the Ministry of Education last year. The professors who are waiting for appointment are people who have been through a very difficult procedure to appoint a professor and rightly expect to be appointed to this post. It is not only a personal matter, but it is also a question relating to the quality of education, because accreditation of study programmes is linked to it, related to the evaluation of universities etc. The unwillingness of the President to appoint professors led to the initiation of a change, an amendment to the Higher Law, which should revise this appointment. However, the university law currently applies, which obliges the President of the Republic to appoint professors who have been proposed and successfully passed the appointment procedure. In order for the President to be able to fulfil this obligation, it requires that the documentation be forwarded to him from the Ministry of Education. My question to the Minister of Education is, therefore, whether the Ministry of Education has been given documentation for the appointment of professors to the President and, if so, when it happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u141	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Minister of Education for an answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u142	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I must give the truth to Mrs Putnová, because the process has been very delayed. I dealt with the whole system as one of the first things in the Ministry of Education, and I found out the first thing that hasn't yet covered the question, but it's very connected with it. Because one of the problems of this amendment is that the law has been broken. The law was broken by the Ministry of Education, when under my predecessor Minister Štys this amendment was not discussed with universities. I made a correction on Wednesday of this week, when I officially sent a bill with my letter to the Czech Rectors' Conference and to the Council of Higher Education to comment. I have another meeting with them on this subject tomorrow, so I'm assuming it's gonna be okay here on this side. As regards the transfer of professors, I myself personally criticised this in the past, why these proposals still lie at the Ministry of Education and are given to each other. I had to find out when these proposals were handed over from the Ministry of Education or sent to the Castle. You'll be amazed that in the ministry these professors have been lying behind my predecessor for several months, even though a proposal from the Ministry of Defence went to Mr. President, the President complied with the applicable legislation and appointed this professor. These proposals from the Ministry of Education - and now for attention - have left the Ministry of Education on 22 January this year. On 22 January this year! Yesterday I had a meeting with the President, and the President informed me that these proposals had already been presented to him yesterday by the Castle's apparatus directly on the table and that he would now read the various proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u143	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u144	Thank you. It's not an additional question, it's a thank you. The minister answered more than I asked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u145	Thank you, Madame, I think the Minister will no longer respond. With another interview - number 11 - I will ask Mr Petr Bendl. Mrs Alena Nohavová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u146	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a simple question for the Minister. I would like to know his position on Křivoklátsko National Park.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask the Minister for his opinion on Křivoklátsko National Park. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, the process of preparing the announcement of the Křivoklátsko National Park has begun, and I am sure that my colleague Bendl knows that already in 2010, when there was actually a substantive intention and then quite a long discussion of the comments of the municipalities. About 18 presentations were made. During 2013, in spring 2013, the material was sent to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, from which a number of comments were made, some of which were settled, some of which were not. And I have to say today that according to my current information, there are comments from both the Central Bohemia Region, which was originally for, today has changed its position, there are comments from some of the ministries concerned, such as the Ministry of Agriculture. That means, at this point, all I can say is that we will continue the inter-ministerial review procedure and we will try to deal with comments if they are not so serious that they would torpedo the whole intention. I must say that at this point there is also a question of how since then, because, in the meantime, of course, there have been a number of exchanges on individual resorts, how the municipalities will respond to this since then, because in that period the municipalities have not been informed about the current course. This means that we as the Ministry of the Environment will continue the inter-department at this point and I think that within a month we will have our comments back, and we will decide further according to the seriousness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u149	Thank you, Minister. I assume that Mr Bendl has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u150	I did not know whether the Minister was more supportive or not. I didn't even know if I did or didn't, even though I was expecting it, or at least some kind of indicated direction. The mayors are informed, there was a referendum a few months ago, when I, as Minister of Agriculture, together with the Minister of the Environment, took part in a meeting with the mayor where it was declared "it's taking too long, the process". And they were very in favour at the time, because this Křivoklátsku can bring some jobs right in the area of tourism. It is set to avoid the areas built to the maximum, so that it does not complicate the lives of people living here in the municipalities, and avoids this plan in the areas built. That's why I expected a more helpful answer, but okay, I'll wait and ask the same question in a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u151	Thank you, and I beg the Minister's reply. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u152	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u153	Thank you and I am now giving the floor to Mrs Nohavová to present her interpellation with the apology that Minister Prachař has apologized from today's meeting. Therefore, if you want to load your interpellation to treat it as written, please do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister is not here today, I am withdrawing my intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u155	Yes, thank you, and please, next in line, Mrs Semelová, to present her interview to Minister Marcel Chládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u156	Madam President, Minister, according to press information, the European Polytechnic Institute, based in Kunovice, offers studies with limited accreditation and is not supposed to accept new students. On its website, it refers to the accreditation of the American Accreditation Agency. In my opinion, however, the diploma in this way of accredited studies may not be acceptable in the Czech Republic because it is outside the university law. So I want to ask if this information is based on the truth from the media. And further, if so, what will be the next course of action of the Ministry. Since I still have time, and I know that, Minister, you are leaving for Sochi, let me ask you a second question. I've been given information about so-called. Workbook for preschoolers, which is intended for children from five years of age. The concept and implementation of this publication was taken over by the company Medienprojekt Munich from Germany. It is intended to mediate basic knowledge from homeland science, including information about selected states mainly from the European Union. What is striking and warning, however, is that information about the Czech Republic is missing. And if they are just a little bit there, they are only led in relation to the neighborhood of Germany and Austria. I also find it extremely inappropriate that quality Czech publications intended for preschool children, which correspond to the framework and school education programmes of kindergarten schools and are created by Czech educators, psychologists and artists, are represented by teaching texts foreign or. German companies. I therefore want to ask whether the Ministry of Education has made recommendations on this publication as to the extent to which it is used in kindergarten schools and whether you are in contact with the Czech Freedom Warriors Union, which has protested the use of this publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u157	Thank you, Madame. The Minister of Education, Mr Marcel Chládek, has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u158	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you, at the same time, for allowing me to respond to both interpelations, along with the fact that I am not going to Sochi today, after trusting the government. But today is the opening of the Center for the Letna, which the Olympics are actually concerned with. As far as your first question, the European Polytechnic Institute, is concerned, you have described the situation exactly. In both of these cases and questions, of course, given that I am the Minister of Education for the eighth day, I am still reaping the remains of the predecessors. But I have found that the Ministry has already warned the European Polytechnic Institute about this problem, with the fact that I would also like to make sure that this accreditation, which is granted by foreign agencies, is not valid in the Czech Republic. It's not considered a college education under our law. We don't even admit student status. However, we certainly need to talk more about this, so that our students know that this is not the equivalent of our higher education. We have no other way of pointing this out, so there is no other way to intervene for one simple reason, because, apart from the higher law or the international treaty, they do not regulate this matter, so basically we have here a whole range of foreign titles that are not common in the Czech Republic or are not recognised in the Czech Republic. On the other hand, in the Czech Republic we have so called. small doctorates, which are virtually not recognized anywhere else in Europe. So much for me. Then, if the lady would like, I can also give her a written background on this matter. As for the second question. Yes, the truth is, I've been approached, but through the media, war veterans who warn that the Němec are teaching our children. I offered war veterans a meeting directly with me to deal with the issue. I ran off to the bookstore to buy the workbook so I could have it right here. It is a workbook for preschoolers, which has various pictures. [[He's showing the Members.]] It is true that there is Switzerland, Asia, Denmark, but I did not find the Czech Republic there at first sight. There was probably a slave translation. However, the Ministry of Education did not provide any clause. The Ministry of Education has not approved this workbook, and if it is used somewhere in preschool facilities, I have not yet been able to find out how many kindergarten schools are used or not. But I'm sure we'll give this textbook, which I've already given, an opinion and a recommendation to pre-school facilities, whether they should use this textbook or not. And if so, to what extent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u159	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member, she is not interested in an additional question. [[No.]] I am now giving the floor to Mr Ladislav Šincl, who was drawn as 14th and lectures on an interview with Minister Němeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I found on the public procurement portal that the Czech Republic's office, the organizational branch of the state set up by the Ministry of Health, the State Institute for Drug Control, issued a PR contract on 17 January for incredible 15 miles. CZK without VAT. That's 15 miles. CZK should be paid for the provision of advisory and organizational services or for the preparation of communication strategies or for the graphical implementation of the outputs of the State Institute for Drug Control. Or also for the implementation of approved communication strategies and so on. At a time when health care is struggling with major problems, when internal debts are increasing in a number of hospitals, and when a number of sick people are at risk of insolvency, it seems quite large. I have these questions for you, Minister. Do you know about this public contract of the State Institute for Drug Control? Whether you think it's normal to give 15 miles. for PR services at a time when money is missing and has to be saved? And another question. Do you consider this economical spending of public funds? And why does this institution need to give 15 miles? CZK for these PR services? What do you think? I beg your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u161	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Health to comment on the Member's interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no choice but to agree with everything you have said. Thank you for this information. No one can expect me to defend something like this these days. I consider the information I have from you today to be scandalous. I really don't think 15 miles. CZK for PR services at the state institution is fine today. If I am informed, the State Institute for Drug Control has its press secretary. And I think that at a time when health care really needs every crown, I find this scandalous. [[17.10 hours]] I have a meeting scheduled for Monday with the director of the State Institute for Drug Control, I should probably have it after this interpellation much earlier, but the director is on a foreign trip. I firmly believe that we can agree that nothing such as the State Institute for Drug Control will be implemented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u163	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. It's not like that. Then I give the floor to Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who was drawn as the fifteenth to present an oral interview with the Minister of Health, Mr Němeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u164	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek's government decided four days before the end of its mandate in May 2009 to purchase shares of the company National Tissue Centre a. s., Brno and Center for Cell Therapy and Diagnostics, a. s., Ostrava from PrimeCell, a. s., for 26 million. Crowns. These companies were established by PrimeCell less than two months before the government's decision. PrimeCell itself was established in 2007 and showed only a minimum turnover for 2008. It can therefore be concluded that the money for the purchase of shares from the Ministry of Health was probably the first larger income of this company in 2009. Soon after the Government's decision, PrimeCell became the recipient of hundreds of millions of subsidies from CzechInvest from the Enterprise and Innovation programme for the construction of superpure biotech spaces in the National Tissue Centre in Brno and in biotech park 4MEDi in Ostrava. Another subsidy money was drawn by PrimeCell on individual research projects. 4MEDi, Center of Cell Therapy and Diagnostics, has even received an award in the 2012 investor competition from CzechInvest. National center of tissues and cells received a subsidy of 72 miles. CZK for the AVTO project of new types of tissue and organ replacements from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the company BLOCK for the laboratory complex for the preparation, analysis and testing of prototypes and samples of advanced tissue substitutes for 98 miles. Crowns. The activities of 4MEDi, Centers of Cell Therapy and Diagnostics include cells, genes and tissues of the human body and products of material engineering. It follows from the above that these companies received large amounts from public funds. Dear Minister, can you please tell me who is the owner of PrimeCell and where this company has its registered office, what specific projects will be further supported at the National Tissue Centre?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u165	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u166	And at the Center of Cell Therapy and Diagnostics, or 4MEDi Ostrava. What do companies make? What are their scientific capabilities? What specific benefit does the Czech State and the scientific community have from participating in joint enterprises?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u167	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister of Health for an interview. You have your word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your questions are very detailed. Of course, I know something about Project 4MEDi in Ostrava, because under the authority of the Ministry of Health, I represented the state in this company. This company is building a biotech center near the faculty hospital. However, other details about products, about scientific capacities here I am unable to say accurately and out of my head. And I think you deserve an exact and exhaustive answer, so we'll answer you in writing as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u169	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u170	Yes, thank you for your word. I'll be glad to get those answers. But I would just like to clarify that in our country, scientific research is based on the fact that companies receiving scientific research grants have to publish scientific articles on the results of their research. And in this case, it's not happening at all, and all the information about this research is classified, and no one knows exactly what these companies are producing. For this reason, I suspect that, in particular, State funds have been spent incessantly and that a company has been created here, which is building very expensive equipment, very expensive equipment, and that the state has no overview and no supervision of how it was actually loaded with its funds, which have been invested in the purchase of shares. On the other hand, it can also be seen that the money paid by the CzechInvest agency could have been paid to restore tissue facilities owned by the state, such as tissue banks at the University Hospital in Brno or Ostrava. On the contrary, there was an argument at the time -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u171	Mr. Ambassador, again, I'm sorry your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u172	I'll finish the sentence. It was argued that the State did not have enough resources to invest in its own tissue facilities, so it would join forces with a private investor and ensure the continued development of research in biotechnology. And apparently it doesn't happen that way. Thank you for any answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u173	Mr. Ambassador, thank you, and next time I ask you to watch your time. Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u174	Dear Member, I will basically follow up on my previous answer. I agree with the questions you asked. From the point of view of the fact that the Ministry of Health exercises shareholder rights as part of the joint venture share, we will, of course, prepare them. However, and it has also been said from your mouth, the decision on public funds, the revenue from European funds was not in the gesture of the Ministry of Health, it is rather in the gesture of the Ministry of Industry. However, we will prepare what we will be able to do from the point of view of the representative of the state in the institutions of this company and we will provide you with all the information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u175	Thank you, Minister. Next in line is Kateřina Konečná. He's going to interpel Minister Brabec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Minister and Minister, I did not want to speak now, but I think that the subject is so serious that a hundred days of defending in this case, as you understand, is certainly not appropriate, because a hundred days could also mean a hundred days of disaster, which will occur when we rest for a hundred days. This is a topic of waste management. You in the coalition treaty that all the members of the government coalition signed, you have the subject, you also say you want a new waste bill. Honestly, since I'm a memoir, I've heard that from Minister Bursík, from all the ministers, and read all the government statements and was written in all the coalition contracts. Unfortunately, since then, nothing has happened at all, and today waste management is becoming such a huge explosion in the environment, because if we do not immediately start doing something about it, not only is there a threat that we will not be able to draw European funds for the next programming period, but we are also in danger of having thousands of tons of hazardous waste ending up in landfills, as is happening today. We are at risk of being unable to meet our recycling targets and other things. Therefore, Minister, please, I will ask one particular question, to which I understand that I will not be given a completely future specific answer, but at least your intention, in what time frame are you planning to present the substantive intention of the Waste Act or, if necessary, an paragrafo text. And as an addition, I would also like to point out that, given that Minister Chalupa, cowardly last June, only extended the validity of the waste management plan, for which municipalities and citizens are also waiting to follow it, as you see it with the waste management plan, because I think that is something that only your ministry can do without the Chamber of Deputies, and it would be nice to do the new plan as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u177	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask Minister Brabec for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u178	Hello again. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. I would like to assure the lady and the others that we are fully aware, so I certainly and certainly also colleagues, that we are from the first second and we will be a hunting animal, that there is no 100 days of defence and it will not be, and I agree that there is really no time for this in these matters. [[17.20 hours]] Indeed, the waste management plan should have been last year. It was then extended until the end of this year, so we are definitely planning a new waste management plan and in any case it is already being worked on rather intensively. It is actually also being worked on in conjunction with the substantive intention of the new Waste Act, where it is clear that this will be a very interesting topic, because we can imagine the lobbyist pressures - landfill operators, incinerators, etc. These are very strong lobbies. There are intentions from the Environment Operational Programme on some incinerators. There are, of course, big topics, there are issues of non-government, which significantly support a much larger proportion of recycling. The truth is that the Czech Republic is now in terms of the proportion of landfilled waste and the proportion of waste that goes to recycling, respectively. separation, relatively on the European Union's tail, definitely in terms of developed countries. This means that we will do our best to present the substantive intention of the new Waste Act by September, at the latest this year. Working groups are already being created today, and I want to extend these topics to other subjects, and I also want to strengthen the Ministry of Waste. This means that I would certainly see a substantive intention by September and subsequently paragrafo the wording. And by the end of this year, it was our intention to make a proposal for an paragrafo text. We'll see, it may be an ambitious scenario, but I believe we will. In any case, with the new waste management plan, the term is quite clear, which we must have by the end of this year. Well, if that's enough, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u179	Thank you, Minister. There will be an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u180	It won't be an additional question, it'll just be a thank you. Believe me, there are few times a minister will say these terms on the screen, because then we like to check them out. So I promise to keep an honest eye on them, too. And I'm glad about the deadline for the waste management plan, because the document is actually ready. There was a real consensus between all partners, except the Minister. He didn't sign it either, but he only extended it. And I was scared when you said you had a waste management plan planned to stay that way. I'm so glad it's still planned for this year. And please at least ask for his speedy acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u181	Thank you. Mr. Bronislav Schwarz is next in line, but I don't see him here, so let's move on. I will ask Mr Jiří Koubek. The MP is intersecting Minister Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u182	[[He carries with him a reduced election billboard of the ANO movement with pictures of Mr Babiš and Mrs Jourová and the inscription: Clear rules for everyone. No exceptions. He's been on the speaker's desk the whole time.]] Dear Minister of Finance, in today's legendary letter of 20 January this year, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka sent a proposal to the President to appoint members of the government. At the end of that document it is stated that they are accompanied by a demonstration certificate according to a rule which has been in force in that country since 1991. It has so far applied to all ministers. No exceptions. Today, the Prime Minister here in the interview said that your illustration certificate was missing because you didn't deliver it. Please, let us remember what you promised the voters before the election: clear rules for everyone. No exceptions. That's why I'm asking you when this clear rule applies, for example. Doesn't Mr. Daniel Herman's candidate for the Minister of Culture apply to you? You negotiated an exception at the castle? I'm not asking for a trial in Bratislava or anything else. I'm asking if you've negotiated an exception in violation of your election vows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u183	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask Minister Babiš for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure the rules are clear for everyone. Yes. We were created as a disgruntled citizen movement, because if those classic political parties hadn't put politicians in a position of superhumans, a situation where there were always some special rules for them... Then we want to change it. And, of course, about the rendering certificate or the law, according to my lawyers, I don't need any illustration certificate. And the fact that it's some kind of mouth... A mouth is not a rule. So I don't have anything to say. I was never here to comment on the Bratislava court, and maybe I'll make my first statement here, because it would be good to ask the people who were there when the revolution was. Ask doktorka Marvanová what it was like when the Civil Forum won, and at the Home Office, those real aesthetics who terrorized and investigated us who were watching us so we wouldn't steal... And we didn't steal because we were afraid of them. So it was a different time. And even President Zeman, when I was with him and we discussed it, said that President Havel was surprised who was all on some lists. And everyone knows General Lorenc shredded 15,000 volumes. Those were the aesthetics who terrorized us! And who told me at the first interview, Mr. Babiš, you have three emigrants, your uncle emigrated to Australia, and your aunt is in Canada and your cousin in the United States... You've got a big problem, Mr. Babiš. Then we heard Mr. Langoš selling it. After all, there are people who have two chandeliers' certificates. Supposedly it cost 250 grand. Some have two, plus a minus. So here's a list, some record of something, and I'm supposed to be disqualified from this company? I didn't do anything, I didn't sign anything. I have been terrorized, and our famous right hand, which has become a symbol of corruption, has no program other than Anti-Babiš and a censure certificate. I really feel sorry for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u185	Thank you, Minister. There will be an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u186	[[Again with a reduced billboard on the speaker's desk.]] Thank you, Minister of Finance. I didn't ask you about the Bratislava trial. And I pointed it out a little bit, because I knew you'd move there in your answer. I asked you about the exception. You didn't answer that. It's your pre-election password. Your election vows! You may call it a mouthpiece, but in this country, it is a clear rule - that candidates for the minister present a demonstration certificate. So I assume that the words of Prime Minister Sobotka apply, and you have not delivered this illustration certificate, have not submitted, have not been sent to the President. I mean, you've been granted an exception. Before the election, you promise something, clear rules for everyone, without exception. Even before you became Minister of Finance, you made one exception - contrary to your pre-election vows. Except for yourself. That's hypocritical behavior! I promise something before the election, but when it comes to me, after the election, I'm different. You're a hypocrite!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u187	Thank you for the additional question. Minister, I beg you to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u188	Strong words. A young man... I don't know which year you're born. It's demagogy. I didn't want any exception. Mr. President appointed me, made some condition. And if the Civil Service Act, which you've promised to the European Union here for 12 years, had been passed here, and you never wanted to do it, because you have those political traders, yes... And of course, the corruption affairs that have arisen for you here are dozens of them, we would have been here for a long time. So I didn't ask for an exception, yes. And I'm sure the Minister of Justice will see to it that the law is followed here and that your judicial mafia doesn't work here. Because we are unique in the fact that politicians here have become part of organized crime! In the end, the prosecutors and the courts were also in control! The Justice Mafia. Yes. It's not anywhere. Corruption is everywhere, but we are unique in this regard. And some corrupters are still sitting in this Chamber of Deputies. So I'm hoping that in the next election, the citizens will explain everything and go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u189	Thank you. Next in line is Mr. Václav Klučka. He's interfering with Minister Brabec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u190	Thank you, Mr President. It's hard enough to talk to the Minister about another subject now, even more serious. Minister, I live in Opava. That's near Ostrava. The white Opava, a beautiful city, is once and again called today. I have to tell you, she's not exactly white anymore. A large number of days a year we suffer from smog, choking, flying dust in the air in values up to three times as high as the appropriate standard. Many environmental ministers not only knew about the problem, but tried to improve the situation. I have to tell you, it's not going well. It doesn't work, and Opava's choking. Ostrava's choking, Karvin's choking. Big problem. I really want to ask you very sincerely what your plan is for a gradual solution to this problem so that we do not have to move from Opava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u191	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask Minister Brabec for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Member, I am afraid that I will not now tell you a plan that will, let us say, satisfy you at this moment so that we can say in a year that this matter is resolved. The matter, of course, has enormous inertia, and I would like to make a comparison that, unlike the subject that we heard here on the previous question, this is a real problem where people die. Of course, high illness in the Moravian-Silesian region and in this area is mainly due to ground ozone, dust microparticles and benzopyrene when the emission limits are exceeded. I've had all the stuff pulled out that's been done in the past few years. The problem is that simply improvement is definitely slower than expected. You know for sure that there were a number of projects from different challenges of the operational programme. They were dozens and maybe even hundreds of projects. Large projects were implemented there in 2012 for the disposal of large companies, Arcelor, Evraz and others. Despite all that, as you say, the region still has problems. Now we come to the fact that we - and we have it in the coalition agreement, but it is not about the coalition agreement or what is on paper - would like to implement the so-called green programme for these areas, especially for the Moravian-Silesian Region and the Ústí Region. We want to continue with these measures and we want to make more of them in financial terms. We want to do, for example, a specific project, although we can say that it is a drop in the sea, but now the European Commission has managed to negotiate a billion crowns on compressed natural gas buses with the European Commission, so these projects will definitely be launched. They are today. There will be other calls for boiler subsidies, local heating sites. There are a number of projects in the operational programme today, which are again in Ostrava. I promise you, as far as I can - I told you that my first trip will now lead to Sumava and my second trip will, of course, lead to the Moravian-Silesian region. This also relates to cross-border cooperation with Poland. There was created a certain international group, which then ceased to function, allegedly due to the lack of interest or reduced interest of Polish partners, who were not willing to cooperate fully on our ideas. I really promise that we will do everything possible within the national resources that we already have allocated to do so today. More, new challenges will be launched this year for several tens of millions of crowns, which will be judged in the Moravian-Silesian region. Of course, the current operational programme as well as the new operational programme 2014 to 2020 in the field of environment will, as far as possible, aim a great deal to stop Ostrava from suffocating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u193	I thank the Minister for his reply. There won't be an additional question. Okay. Next in line is Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Interpelation is directed at Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u194	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the right to information on the management of stock companies directly managed by the State's organisation. Specifically, it is the state hospital Na Homolce and its subsidiary Holte, a.s. Hospital Na Homolce is specific by having its subsidiaries, its subsidiaries, one of which provides all purchases of medical supplies to this hospital. Minister Holcát wanted to conduct an in-depth management in Na Homolce Hospital and the director refused to give him information about the company's management with reference to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance that the management of a subsidiary, a joint-stock company, is not subject to some secrecy and that therefore this information cannot be obtained by the Minister of Health. I don't think that's standard. If hospitals manage public funds collected from public health insurance, then there can be no confidentiality regime. In the past, I have been very concerned with the management of the Hospital Na Homolce and especially the relationships that have been set up here, and I must say that these relations are not very transparent. I would like to ask, Minister, if you intend to change the Ministry of Finance's approach to ensuring that any contracts concluded by hospitals, whether public hospitals or private public limited-liability companies, whether these contracts will be published in such a way that management control is possible, because without this step, there will be no transparency in the flows of public health insurance and the spending of health insurance funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u195	Thank you, too. Now the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u196	Thank you for the floor. I got the following information from the Treasury. This is a control of the financial directorate of the capital city of Prague. The audit was for the management of the contribution organisation established by the Ministry of Health for the years 2006 to 2009. Result of control: In 2009 the hospital concluded a contract for the provision of legal aid for a fixed period up to 31. 12. 2009 with the law firm Shachta and Partners - Mr Bendl certainly knows the office well. The total value of the legal services paid this year was CZK 7 449 100 without VAT. The contract was not awarded in accordance with Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, etc. There has been a breach of Law No 563/1991 Coll., on Accounting, by not finding out whether the actual state of all assets and liabilities corresponds to the state of the assets and liabilities of the accounting. On the basis of that finding, it was the Financial Authority for hl. m. Prague prescribed a contribution for breach of budgetary discipline. Providing information by the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with Article 22 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is necessary to apply the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6b of Law No. 320/2001 Coll., on financial control in public administration and on the amendment of certain laws, inform the financial authorities through the Directorate-General... The GFŘ on all deficiencies exceeding the 300 000 limit. Kč. In this case, the information has not yet been transmitted. So that's what we keep saying people don't know what they're spending on. All we hear on Homolka is that there are actually some subsidiaries where the minister doesn't really have a chance to know what they're doing there. So I can only say that the Ministry of Finance will definitely change its approach and we will give information because citizens deserve to know what taxes they pay for and where it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u197	Thank you, Minister. Will there be an additional question? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u198	Thank you for your answer. I have basically handed over the case-laws to the court, which clearly states that also ČEZ and e.g. The transport company of the capital city of Prague, a. s., all these companies that manage public funds are obliged to transfer their accounts for inspection. That means there's no way to hide management in the case of Na Homolce Hospital. A number of non-standard steps took place at Na Homolce Hospital. Not only does it have its subsidiaries through which it buys, there were a number of things that involved tenders, very strange, and, as has already been said, it is a hospital, which is included as a pilot project of the Ministry of Health, in the past, which does not even have its own economic department and the entire economic department is replaced by a private company s.r.o. So this also appears in the annual report. This is total chaos and I recommend that the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, carry out an in-depth control of the management in this hospital. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u199	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u200	I don't think it's just a hospital. No one actually checks anything here. This is a completely absurd situation when there is an internal audit, controlling, compliance (?), anonymous lines, line tell us and anti-corruption measures, and our... After 20 years, we're talking about the SAO's competences so the SAO can check anything. Well, I don't know who's actually controlling what here. We have BIS reports every year that talk about different forms of crime, but who in the finals is making some kind of measure and how many corruption cases were there and how many corruption cases were solved and what is being controlled... There's basically nothing to control. I think it's time for us to change that and for the public to know what the state is spending money on. And I'm sure I'll make my position the most of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u201	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Olga Havlová is next in line, and the interview is directed to Minister Michaela Marksová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u202	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I am addressing you with an interview on the question of retiring miners. I am a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region and I am strongly touched by the unhappy situation not only of miners but of the whole OKD. In the long run, no one's dealing with miners' retirement. Studies conducted abroad clearly show that the average age of the miner's survival is about 75 years on average, significantly lower than that of the other population. This average age is lower than the actual retirement age. So far, the situation has been addressed by Government Regulation No. 363/2009 Coll., which enabled early retirement of miners who worked out the prescribed exposure. Unfortunately, the Pension Insurance Act and this government regulation are limited in time. It is absolutely essential that a change of this government regulation be adopted and, consequently, a law that would allow early retirement not only for the miners, but for other professions in the heavy industry. I ask you, Madam Secretary: You will propose an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act and an amendment to Government Regulation No. 363/2009 Coll.? If not, how will you deal with this situation, because the question of miners, I consider it a time bomb that has already begun to tick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u203	I would like to thank the Member and the Minister for her comments on the interview. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to remind you that the regulation in question currently concerns miners who have worked or started working in deep-sea mines, and that restriction is that they did so before 1993 or then until the end of 2008. I can say that my predecessor, Minister Koníček, received a task from the then Prime Minister in November 2013 to prepare legislation that would extend this government regulation to the same professionally defined circuit of miners, i.e. we are talking about the miners from the deep mines, namely those who entered the said employment after 1992 and fulfilled the relevant conditions, or only after 2008. I would like to say that the Ministry of Labour is working on this task and that, in order for the task to be accomplished, it will first require an amendment to the provisions in the Pension Insurance Act. Only then can it be possible to change the conditions in the relevant government regulation. We are currently going to discuss this intention in a new government that has not actually had a chance to get to know it properly. I hope I've satisfied you at least a little. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u205	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask the honourable Member whether she wants to ask an additional question. I see he does. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u206	Thank you for your answer. What you've said here is quite familiar to me, I've even looked into it in detail, because my original profession is a patsy, and that's why I want to ask you if you see it really, so that it's by the end of this year, at least by the end of this year, the novelization, the 363, would it be real.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u207	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u208	At this point, I don't know, although from what I've heard, I think it's real, but I don't want to make a hundred percent promise here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u209	Thank you and I am now giving the floor to Mr Petr Bendl, who was drawn as 22nd, and I ask him to give an oral interview to the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u210	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr Vice-President of the Government, colleagues, I must say that I very much agree with Minister Babiš that people should know what the state is spending their money on, and when someone is criticizing someone, he should set an example himself. So I want to ask you whether you will publish at least in 2013, how much money Agrofert has drawn from state money or European Union funds, and at the same time I would like to ask you whether you will publish, how much funds or what liabilities and debts the Agrofert Group has towards its suppliers or contributors or trading partners, so that the Minister of Finance cannot possibly be blackmailable in its capacity. I think it's a key thing to publish companies' liabilities and claims, because even there may be things that may not be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u211	I thank the Member and the Minister of Finance for his comments. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u212	Thank you. About the finances, as I don't control Parliament's and the public administration's speech, I guess the Minister doesn't do much for the financial parameters either. In our country, there is actually an obligation to publish the results of companies. We're doing it. In our country, about 60 percent don't do that because there's a ridiculous fine and a penalty, and no one even enforces it afterwards. About our group, about subsidies, I think these are all familiar things. Our group receives approximately CZK 5.5,000 per hectare from the European Union as every farmer. And unlike any other kind of subsidy, it's a claim grant, which means whoever has the land has the grant. There are no other conditions like soft subsidies. So I don't see the problem, and it's public information. We're publishing it, and I don't understand what it is, or what it is. I didn't get it at all. If the Minister is concerned about Agrofert's health, I can assure him that current assets and foreign resources are pluses, and our stocks and cash in the accounts are higher than bank loans. So I don't know exactly what's going on. And we basically get most of the subsidies from the European Union, and we get from the Department of Agriculture like any poultry or pig farmer, and it's all a transparent matter. So I'm sure I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u213	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question. He does. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u214	Thank you for the answer. I understood it by saying that you would publish the figures relating to state subsidies and European subsidies received by Agrofert. The term 5.5 thousand per hectare is not exactly what the owner of the land is. You must know this well, Minister through Madam President, because those who have the right to use are not only the owner. But it doesn't matter. I'd like to hear a specific amount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u215	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u216	I'm surprised the former Minister of Agriculture doesn't understand what's going on. Of course it's in use. Agrofert Group has a hundred thousand hectares in rent, and of that it has about six thousand in ownership. So we, like everyone who uses the land, draw about five thousand or five thousand five hundred crowns. And for a hundred thousand acres, if you can multiply, that's 550 million. And it's money from the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u217	Thank you. I am now giving the floor to Mr Šincl, who was drawn as 23rd and will give an oral interview to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I originally wanted to ask you as a former chemist if you know what benzo[a)pyrene is, the sumary formula C20H12, and how it harms human health. In response to the previous interpellation, you mentioned it. I'll just add that it's a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon with five benzone rings. It is highly carcinogenic and mutagenic. Studies have shown an effect on the reduction of fertility and developmental defects in offspring. The main problem is that this hydrocarbon is packed into today's fine flying dust PM10, which is then inhaled into the body. Today we have heard that unfortunately the worst situation is in this area in Ostrava and Karvinsko. These regions are one of the most polluted areas in terms of air not only within the Czech Republic but also in Europe. The emission limits for flying dust and benzopyrene have been widely exceeded here in the last decade and there is no indication that we will be able to breathe better in this region during the coming months. All previous governments have declared that the air in Ostrava and Karvinsko is their priority. Of course, it turned out that their priority was to convince the public that the atmosphere in Ostrava and Karvinsko was their priority, or, in fact, not to deal with it, but only to create the appearance, the appearance that it was being addressed. So if you understand me, Minister, there is a ticking time bomb in Ostrava and Karvinsk, whether ecological, economic or social, and the task of the new government is to respond adequately to this situation. I wonder what you are going to do with this particular problem. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u219	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm asking the Minister to respond to the intervention. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u220	Thank you. I don't know if I'm--I'm not a chemist, even if that's what they say about me, but I say if I'm a chemist, I'm at the Treasury Department. So I'm a geologist, I graduated from science school. But of course, benzopyrene I know what this substance is, and I know how carcinogenic and mutagenic it is. I'd probably just repeat what I said in this thing, Mr. Ambassador. By the way, a significant reduction in the dust microparticles in the measures I've appointed, which will definitely continue - because it's about a few factors. First of all, it is about the structure of the industry in Ostrava clearly. It's about the structure of transport and, of course, part of it, although in this case it's probably not the case, it's about local heating sites. So all of these elements that we have planned, by the way, are also part of the state environmental policy that was approved in 2012 for the period 2012 to 2020, and there are a number of measures that should reduce these effects. So we agree that this is simply about the amount of dust microparticles that benzopyrene builds on and, of course, how to reduce them. I've listed some of the precautions here. I'm afraid I'm not going to tell you any new ones right now, but believe us, this really is a priority task within this green programme that we would like to prepare for the Moravian-Silesian and Ústecký Region as a summary of the measures in which the state, regions, municipalities and major industrial enterprises should participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u221	Thank you, Minister. I ask the Member if he has an additional question. He does, so please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u222	Thank you. I apologize to the Minister. I found out from the Internet that you were the director of the Chemical Races, so I thought you were a chemist. I'm sorry again. Personally, air pollution in our Moravian-Silesian region is a personal matter for me, because I live in this region and I have to watch the locals, especially the children here, breathe carcinogenic poisons into their lungs almost every day just because government officials, ex-government officials, did not know how to do anything about it and didn't want to do anything about it. I hope it improves beyond your rule, I firmly believe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u223	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking the Minister if he wants to respond. No, it's not. So, given that we have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for today, the oral questioning ends at 6:00 p.m. Therefore, this point of discussion is over. Before we break up and end today's meeting day, I will ask the Vice-President of the Election Commission, Mr Jan Klán, to tell us the technical and organisational issues about the electoral point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u224	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Under the authority of the Election Commission and in the context of today's elections, I am declaring a deadline for nomination for amendments to the Chamber of Deputies' bodies by Monday, 10 February, at 14 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-06-ps2013-006-03-023-073.u225	Thank you, and I'm done with today's meeting day. We'll meet tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when we'll continue to discuss the approved agenda. Thank you. Have a good evening.
