ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u1	24. Members of David Kádner, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Petr Adam, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Marek Černoch, Karel Fiedler, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Jaroslav Holík, Martin Lank, Karel Pražák, Milan Šarapatka and Jiří Štětina for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 40/ - first reading I want to inform you that we have received the Government's position as Press No. 40/1. I ask that Mr David Kádner present this proposal for the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u2	Thank you. Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a good morning and allow myself to submit a proposal for a law on material distress, House Press No. 40. The present has shown that in excluded localities, especially in Mosteck and Šluknov region, there is abuse of socially excluded persons as recipients of benefits of material distress, namely the housing supplement under Sections 33 and 35a of the Law on aid in material distress, where long-term clients of the social network are the abuse of loan sharks who are parasitic to the problem of social exclusion and poverty. This amendment proposes a solution and provides that the upper ceiling of the housing supplement will be provided according to the rental price map as it is created by the State Housing Development Fund. The condition is the fulfilment of hygienic and construction technical requirements, as is apparent from Section 122 of the Construction Act and the Operating Regulations pursuant to Section 21a of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended. For example, if the apartment is housed for 8 people, but in fact there are 15 people living in it, this is a transfer under § 178 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) a construction law where a natural person commits an offence by using a change in the construction in violation of a co-ordinary decision or in accordance with the letters. (k) where the natural person commits an offence by abuse of the building in violation of the approval of the building. This is the only bill dealing with this problem, which is foreseen with the mayors of the affected sites, not just from the Ústí Region, and has their full support. I therefore ask you for the mayors of the territories concerned to support this amendment and release it to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u4	Thank you for the floor. We have heard the introduction of this amendment as representatives of the proponents of this bill. I would like to say that the Government's position, as has already been said, has been received and is expressed in this proposal in opposition, for the following reasons in particular: The proposed bill seeks to address only narrowly defined issues and does not aspire to a more comprehensive adjustment in the batch area. - I will also join the general debate and have an even longer explanation. The lack of a proposal is also linked to the lack of consistency of the provision put forward in the current version of the law, so it can be considered legislatively poorly prepared. The condition of use of the apartment in accordance with hygienic and construction technical requirements is formulated vaguely and vaguely. Moreover, the Government considers that the provision in question should not be formulated in such a way that the beneficiary is subject to a loss of entitlement to the levy on the ground that the relevant technical and hygienic requirements are not met by the housing provider. Furthermore, the Government points out that there is no link to the new Civil Code, which has been effective since 1 January 2015. If we have heard of the abuse of the status of these unfortunate people by loan sharks, I believe that their position may be even worse after the adoption of this amendment. I agree with the Government's position, which proposes a disagreeable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I would now like to open a general debate in which so far, including the rapporteur, there are six applications. I will ask the rapporteur whether she wants to give priority or whether I can allow the speeches to colleagues who are duly enrolled. He doesn't want to get off first. Mrs Zuzana Kailová will be the first to speak and Mrs Jana Hnyková will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to make comments on the proposed amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need presented by Members Kádner, Okamura and others from Dawn. I fully agree with the rapporteur's introduction, who has already mentioned the reasons why the Rusnokův government discussed this law at its meeting on 18 December 2013 and expressed its opposition to this proposal. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Therefore, allow me, beyond the Government's position, to state further reasons for disagreeing with the proposed draft law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (a) the draft law states that the benefit may be granted only if the person uses the apartment of which he is the owner or the tenant, in accordance with hygienic and constructional technical requirements. Contrary to the justification in the explanatory memorandum, compliance with hygienic and constructional technical requirements with other forms of housing for which the levy is intended is omitted. The explanatory memorandum further mentions in support of the bill claims which, based on experience, are ineffective, difficult to meet for the incompleteness of the bill without seeing the context of the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u7	Madam, I am very sorry, but I really ask you to lower the level of noise in the room, because I am already registering complaints from Members who listen to and do not understand the speech of the Member. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u8	And my last point is that the bill does not take into account the legislation in force. On the basis of the above substantive shortcomings, I cannot support the draft law, and I therefore propose that the House press be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u9	Thank you. Mrs Hnyková will now appear, Mrs Semelová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the amendment to Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on aid in material distress, as amended, proposed by the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Tomio Okamura, and through a member of David Kádner, press 40. In the amendment to this law, Mr Kádner proposed an amendment in Section 33, namely to supplement paragraph 3. 9 that the housing supplement may be granted only if the person applying for the allowance uses the apartment of which he is the owner or the tenant, in accordance with the hygienic and construction technical requirements and at the same time the supplement is granted to the applicant person up to an amount corresponding to the maximum amount of the usual flat rental at the place and time. All of us, as we sit here, have met during the election campaign, and now we meet on various occasions with citizens who tell us, under what conditions, or what trouble they have in the vicinity of the so-called. social hostels. It is no secret that there are over 400 such excluded localities in the Czech Republic and their number is constantly increasing. And with them there are growing problems that bring about the separation of people who find themselves in a difficult life situation. What leads these fellow citizens to find themselves in these locations? These are debts, loss of employment and inability to pay off loans, but also sickness or insolvency of the employer. Not only do families with basic education live in these hostels, but there are also high school educated people who for some reason lost their jobs and got caught in a debt trap. For example, in Ostrava and other major cities, dozens of such residential hotels have been created in recent years. For example, the Ostrava Magistrate issued 87 million in 2011. for housing payments and a year later for 172 miles. No wonder, since the rent on these hostels is between 15 and 24 thousand. for a room, while we all know the conditions in which the residents of these residential hotels must live. For example, in Liberec, almost 1,100 people live in four such locations, which make up 14 houses. What future do people have at these hostels, how do they think about their vision in their lives? The feeling of social exclusion on the outskirts of society and the label that they receive and abuse social benefits, that they work black and steal - those are the feelings they have to deal with when they try to get out of this environment. And here I have to remind you again what social exclusion is. It is also a cause, as a result of restrictions on some people and locations full of participation in social, economic, cultural and political life. In its consequences, it increases social tensions, negatively affects the face of cities and threatens their sustainable development. Social exclusion is subject to economically or socially weak individuals, most often members of ethnic, national, religious, or other minorities - foreigners, economical and political migrants, persons with low education, long-term unemployed, persons after the execution of the sentence, homeless, youthful, low-income families and individuals, seniors and physically or mentally handicapped. The rate of exclusion and composition of excluded population groups depends on the political system, legal order, culture and customs of the majority society of the state. There is no special regulation of minimum standards for housing in the Czech Republic. There is also a lack of detailed legal regulation on social housing. Local attempts to solve social housing are often well below the usual level in the Central European cultural environment. In many cases, this means major hygiene deficiencies, poor state of water installation and wiring, insufficient infrastructure and cutting off from ordinary services and other populated sites. This extremely low level of housing and services is often in a screaming imbalance to the amounts that the accommodation provider or tenant is obliged to pay. Monthly rent is often not lower than rent in ordinary flats, sometimes it is paradoxically even higher. I must remind you that this issue on adequate housing and the current solution to social inclusion is largely in the hands of municipalities and there is a very substantial provision of Law No. 128/2000 Coll., on municipalities, which in its § 2 para. In the case of a public undertaking, the municipality is a public corporation, and in the case of a public undertaking. 2 states that the municipality takes care of the versatile development of its territory and the needs of its citizens; it also protects public interest in the performance of its tasks. According to § 35 para. In accordance with local conditions and with local practice, the municipality is responsible for creating conditions for the development of social care and for meeting the needs of its citizens. This is primarily about meeting the needs of housing, protecting and developing health, transport and communications, information and education. These problems are known, written in the media, but nothing happens. Yes, there is a complex solution, a quality law on social housing, but if it is to be of good quality, it needs to be properly prepared. Mr Kádner here proposes a solution that will enable people who are in a difficult situation to live with dignity while reducing the burden on the state budget. All of this, instead of an outrageous enrichment from a group of entrepreneurs with human misery, it is from taxpayers' money. At present, such rent payments are negotiated that do not correspond to the usual amount, so that the loan sharks and would-be entrepreneurs are making disproportionate profits. [[9.20 hours]] The price maps clearly set the usual rents in the given locations. According to them, the maximum housing levy should be paid instead of the privately legally agreed payments. The aim is, therefore, that housing benefits are used exclusively for housing socially needed, not for loan sharks. Another objective is to provide cultural housing and help against a criminalized environment. That is why I do not understand the previous government, which, although very well known about this issue, did not do anything to remedy it and, moreover, gave a negative opinion on this amendment. The Dawn Movement wants to push through this amendment to ensure that people who have found themselves on the periphery are given decent living conditions, as is apparent from the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and you can all contribute to this. That is why, through Mr President, I am asking you to support and release the law into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u11	The next enrollment is Mrs Marta Semelová, and she then announced the wish to exercise her priority right as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u12	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, colleagues. I completely agree with the intention of the petitioners to prevent loan sharks and residential owners from taking advantage of the desperate economic situation of individuals and whole families who have gone into poverty, have no basic life needs, have no rent, and find themselves on the very day. And that anyone can find themselves on that imaginary bottom is perhaps quite obvious. There are about 800,000 registered and unregistered unemployed in the Czech Republic, of which only 120 000 receive unemployment support. One million 600,000 of those who live in poverty are one fifth of the children. Homelessness, in which more than 30,000 of our fellow citizens have been found, and another 100,000 are really at risk. In a difficult situation, there are single mothers who are among the most vulnerable groups of poverty. And it's not a small number. 256 thousand single - parent families and 22 percent of children, respectively. Of course, the poor groups at risk are seniors, those who have worked their whole lives, created values, and paid for their pensions, and now have no means of living. As published in the media, 71 percent of pensioners faced execution last year. Not only are they lucky enough to get 40 crowns on average due to the former Nečasův government at a time when it gets expensive, what I look at. The irresponsibleness of the former right-wing coalition seems to have become a model for all kinds of loan sharks, speculators, and residential hotel owners who completely cynically exploit people's poverty for their own benefit, for their profit. In many places, as we learn from the regions, they are buying houses to continue to increase their accounts and literally intimidate and blackmail those who are afraid of losing their roof over their heads. The state of their homes is often pitiful. They do not correspond to hygienic conditions, lack of social facilities, disproportionate number of persons in a small space, creation of ghettos. No wonder these are places where problems, social conflicts, and crime accumulate. There's no way I want to put everyone in one bag. There are certainly a number of decent honest people among the owners, but the hyenaism of those who deal in human misfortunes and contribute to the stirring of hateful passions must be avoided. I'm sure we all agree on that. For these reasons, I consider the regulation of legislation and its setting up so that housing benefits are used exclusively for housing socially needed, not for loan sharks and dishonest owners, to be of the utmost need. It is also extremely important that people live in decent conditions in accordance with hygienic and constructional technical requirements and for the appropriate available amount of rent. On the other hand, as the proposal is submitted, it is completely inadequate, complexly unsolved. In addition, there are many risks and many uncertainties. In particular, a reference to the rental price maps is given in the bill's amendment proposal. This price map exists only for certain selected municipalities and therefore it is not possible to use data from it for all authorities in material distress. Already in 2010, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs issued methodological instruction number 4, within which guidance was provided for the calculation of rents in place and time usual due to the absence of a price map. For that purpose, it is recommended that the relevant department of the municipal authority or, where appropriate, the organisation managing the municipality's housing fund, the amount of the rent fixed for each type of apartment, or the amount of the rent fixed for one square metre of apartment. If the real estate agency's location, which facilitated the rental of apartments in private ownership, it was recommended that they also find out the average amount of the rent or rent calculated from one square metre of the apartment. The data found were used by the authority in material distress to compare the rentals provided by the tenant in agreement with the owner of the apartment. The data thus found are used by many authorities in material need to this day, even after the transfer of aid benefits in material distress from the community's structure to the structures of labour offices. In August 2013, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs issued normative instruction No. 10 - procedure in the procedure for supplementary housing payments pursuant to Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended, where the granting of this benefit is detailed including the whole procedure for individual forms of housing. There is also another form of living, such as hostels, etc. However, the problem with the employment office remains a lack of staffing which could effectively evaluate, assess and mainly control this other form of housing and use of the housing supplement for the purpose for which it is intended. The condition of the use of the apartment in relation to hygienic and constructional technical requirements is also vaguely formulated. I'm sure the request as such is correct. On the other hand, however, the risk that the beneficiary might lose the benefit is that the housing provider does not fulfil its obligations should also be perceived. It would be difficult for residents of residential hotels, shelters, etc. to obtain a supplement. Paradoxically, we would not even avoid usury, which is one of the key moments highlighted in the explanatory memorandum. If the owners of the hostel do not receive the required amount of the housing supplement, persons in material need will be forced to continue borrowing money from loan sharks. Finally, what I consider very dangerous if this law is adopted is the risk that people will have to leave the apartments, houses or hostels without having a real opportunity to live elsewhere. I therefore ask how this situation will be addressed by the petitioners. What will happen to these citizens, where will they go? Will they stay on the street with the kids? I remind you that the law is to take effect on 1 January 2015, which is a very short time for municipalities to be able to prepare for this situation. The amendment thus does not actually meet the objective set by the petitioners and which is certainly correct, but rather creates other uncertainties for the social needs. For this reason, I am putting forward a proposal to re-establish the law with a view to doing so as soon as possible, because the problem is really urgent and needs to be dealt with urgently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u13	The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will now speak. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u14	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I just wanted to assure you that, as Minister of Labour, I am aware of this completely unbearable housing supplement situation and the whole situation at the hostels. For the sake of interest, I wanted to repeat the statistics that, in fact, compared to January 2013 in the first three quarters of last year, the payout of housing payments increased by almost 40 percent. I would also like to stress what the previous speakers have actually mentioned here, that half of the recipients of the benefits of material distress are seniors, and I would like to assure you that this is why we will revise as quickly as possible and present the amendment to the law on material distress drawn up by Prime Minister Rusnok's government, which is a short-term immediate horizon. [[9.30 hours]] In that period, we are working closely with the Ministry of Regional Development on the Social Housing Act, which has also been mentioned here. Our ambition is that this law, which we have been talking about for many years and we still do not have it, is actually considered a comprehensive solution to the deteriorating situation of several groups of our people. Of course, another integral part of this solution is also the personnel strengthening of labour offices, which actually often do not have the strength to do the necessary legal part of the payment of benefits of material distress, and this is a social inquiry in the families of beneficiaries. Of course, we would like to correct that, because it is also crucial. Those beneficiaries are often in a situation where they need other things, they need to use social services, not just the benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u15	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs Olga Havlová will now appear, a. No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but there is a factual remark from Mr Plzák. It comes first, so the MP has two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u16	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the speech by the Minister, who gave me an indication which I did not know exactly that a large percentage of the beneficiaries of this benefit are seniors. I am not fully educated on this issue, but I have the impression that the dose was originally conceived as a time-limited period of five years. [[The secretary says ten years.]] Ten even. The deadline was for these people to eventually get a smaller apartment if they had an excessive apartment. From my experience around me, the seniors don't do that. So even here, I don't know who's supposed to be helping these seniors switch apartments, but even here, I think there's some reserves where something could be done for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u17	In fact, Mr. and President of the Dawn Club, Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u18	Mr President, fellow Members, very briefly through the President, I want to respond to what the Minister has said here. I'm glad we all agree that this is an issue that weighs heavily on us. I'm glad we're all aware that there's a ghetto of people who are harassing their surroundings with their crime. I am pleased to see the need to improve the social situation of people who live in such apartments and hostels. And I am also glad that it has fallen quite clearly and clearly from the person most competent, that it costs us more and more money, our money, taxpayers' money. This means that I think we all agree that we have to do something about this situation and that we have to deal with it. If this proposal of ours contributes to this situation being addressed, that's exactly what we wanted. I just want to draw attention to one thing at the end of my speech. The government proposal that was being laid down here, the government proposal of the last Prime Minister Rusnok's government, has one thing in it. It has one condition - that the housing will be limited in time, and I don't remember exactly whether for six months or a year. It looks very good. Economically very well. This means: People, beware, get some housing until a certain time, otherwise you will have a problem. But those people are tens of thousands, and I don't think that's the thing we can handle like this. We can't treat her like this because where are these people going after that? Will they go under the bridge? Or where they're going? I think we're gonna have another problem. And I want to draw attention to this condition, which was in the government proposal, and I want to point out to the Minister, through Mr President, that this is probably not the best solution, and there is no such condition at all in the bill of the Úsvit movement. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u19	Thank you, too. There are still some factual points. First Mr. Opálka, then Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To clarify, colleagues, colleagues. The deadline for finding a new home was excluded for the elderly, because then the legislature concluded that the transfer to another environment of a man who is 70, 75 years old is basically the end of it. But I would like to say that the problem turned out when then the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Petr Nečas, transferred benefits from clients to homeowners. There was a huge boom when a huge group was formed - I say huge, but huge financially - which I think bought almost inappropriate houses and started to do business in this area without setting hygiene standards, as they are in schools or prisons, where only a certain number of pupils or prisoners can have a certain number of cubicles. The household benefits were paid instead of the individual, and the problem became so chained that the media finally caught on to it. I think it needs to be dealt with forcefully and quickly. The problem was solved by municipalities because they disposed of the housing fund and did not create a social housing reserve, which in more developed countries accounts for at least 30% of the housing fund in each territory. I do not know who will pay the cost of new social housing, because in most cases the municipalities no longer have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u21	Yes. Now with the de facto Madam Secretary. Then a factual remark from Mr. Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u22	I just wanted one piece of information that the previous Nečasův government reformed and abolished a number of social benefits. So she got the paycheck in the other area. But the fact that our social welfare spending would somehow increase sharply overall, as far as I know, is not true. And a second note to the seniors to find a small apartment. I'm from Prague, and I know that even a tiny studio for this senior is still worth, like, nine grand, which often exceeds their pensions or it's close to the border. So it's not that simple with the move. And for example, the members of the Romani community, who also normally work and should hire a normal apartment, so that in the Ústí Region or Moravian-Silesian region, they basically have no chance of finding a normal apartment, that is also a well-known situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u23	Mr Plzák, with a factual remark. After that, Mr. Stanjura's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u24	Thank you again for the floor. I thought it was smiling, and I would argue with the argument that transferring a senior into another environment meant the end of it. The Prime Minister was nodding in agreement here, but as a doctor, I meet a number of retired people who come to my home, who normally during the time I follow them for a reason, I know them, they change their place of residence, they go to a nursing home, they go to a nursing home, and I didn't see it end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u25	The President of the ODS, Mr Stanjura, has now made a point of fact. Then I have Mr Sed and Mr Birke's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u26	So just a really short factual remark. Although the Minister does not listen, I want to respond to her words that the Romani family cannot find accommodation in the Moravian-Silesian region. I'd like her not to say those words. They don't respond to reality. They don't answer the truth. And there are city halls where there are simply small projects with nonprofits, where the town hall stands between the owner of the apartment and the Romani family and provides accommodation or guarantees against the owner of the apartment. It's quite common - but Madam Secretary just doesn't have time to listen to it. Next time he'll tell us about the Moravian-Silesian region. I don't know when she was last there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u27	Mr Seďa, with a factual remark. Mr. Birke will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two notes. The first was that the meeting last year was held between the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on social housing policy. That's the first thing. And the other thing. In order to resolve this problem in the long term, a social housing law must be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u29	Thank you. Mr Birke has the floor with the facts, then Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give you a very brief look, mayor, currently mayor of a city with 22,000 inhabitants, and the number of, say, unadaptable people revolves around 8-9 percent of the population in that city. Do you know when the whole problem started? The moment Nečasův' government transferred welfare payments to the labor authorities. First, they paralyzed the employment office because the active employment policy was over, it became cash registers, and we as mayors today have to send the city police to the labour authorities to protect the officials when paying their benefits. And the other thing. We all fear that any property in the cadastral of individual towns and villages that is empty will come any person who gives the mayor, council or council an offer to buy this property, and it is so lucrative that they fill their budget because they do not have on the pavements etc.. You all know what I'm talking about. Embassies, if they do, of course they're gonna have a huge problem. In other words, and then we're talking about the system that my previous speakers talked about because it's pointless to talk about it twice or three times. In short, and well, the system is wrong from the very beginning. We belong to the city that we have apartments, we have a place to accommodate socially weaker citizens, but we also have several properties in the property of the city that are populated, which are currently ready for demolition, because no one will force me to sell it to a speculator who will move in there, pardonfully, 250 or 500 unadaptable people that no one is driving. And when you come to him as the tenant or the owner of the apartment - [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'll be right out. If you come to him and ask him to keep his tenants quiet in a given village, he laughs at you because he says, "That's not my problem." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u31	Thank you. Mr Foldyna - two minutes of factual comment. After him, Mr. Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u32	Thank you. I have a comment that I would like to hear a partial answer from the Minister. You know, because I'm a deputist in Děčín, and we've been doing research, and there are two and a half thousand people in our 500,000 city whose life income is just benefits. When I look at Šluknovský výzkům, where there is 24% unemployment in places like Šluknov, we are dealing with or discussing this problem with the previous government for the fourth year now. I have heard reservations about this proposal. Please, I welcome the initiative because we really have to do something about it. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister when the new government, the current government, will present a legislative proposal for its solution, where the criticisms that have been rightly raised here against the Dawn proposal will be taken into account. It is important for me to hear when these things will be dealt with, because the situation in my constituency is already terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u33	Mr. Chalupa, after him, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u34	Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. Please, first of all, I welcome the Dawn initiative, but really as I listen to it here, what is spreading around here, it is once again a thing that has been growing here for about 15 or 20 years, and no one has dealt with it. I mean, there was talk of social tension. Social tensions are also rising here because the minimum wage is CZK 8,000 and the minimum amount of social assistance I have found from the employment offices is not less than CZK 12,000. That's not normal. People who work can't have less than people who don't work. As for the state of the housing fund, I spent a year at the Brno-Central Office on the investment and management of apartment buildings and apartments of these socially inadaptable citizens I visited for a year. If you want to know what it looks like, I'll tell you. And as far as pensioners are concerned, it should probably not be forgotten that pensioners have had the opportunity to privatise houses both in large cities for amounts ranging from CZK 90 to 200,000, and these same apartments are now on the market for college students who are starting to work at prices from CZK 2.5 million. So, on the one hand, of course, I understand the severe social situation of pensioners, on the other hand, the property that has market value, and they can't deal with it. But there's nothing anyone can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u35	President Stanjura has two minutes, and after that, Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u36	I apologize to my colleague, but we're not here to tell fairy tales, but facts. Such a performance that the smallest dose is 12,000, it's just a fairy tale, an absolutely unqualified estimate or an unqualified statement. It's not possible to say that. But I volunteered for something else. It's not true that everyone who's getting a living fee is inadaptable to you or the bad guys. That's not true. We have to make a distinction in this debate. And then there's a group of those who made it a business. It doesn't matter to those who pay for the housing because they don't get the money in their hands. The Bureau will send it directly to the hostel owner and the socially weak, inadaptable one, it doesn't matter if it's five, fifteen or fifty thousand a month. But I think we already have tools today. Every mayor will confirm that if he's reconstructing kindergarten, he'll come in six times hygiene, count the number of new toilets to the number of children, and he'll say, here you have to lower your capacity, because you have better toilets than you should have. What's the hygiene doing? What's the construction department doing? It is not possible for residential hotels to exist in former office spaces. That's what the state and the public administration have the tools to do today. Just don't let anyone worry, they have to go in there, and they have to shut it down. It's pretty simple. We also had a dormitory at our place. We even dealt with the owner at City Hall. In the end, he locked her up himself under the pressure that we created by asking for the business, the construction, the hygiene, this one. You can just fight it. It's not exactly easy. However, I do not think that we can confuse these entrepreneurs with those who receive the benefits rightly. We'd make a terrible mistake. And to blame our seniors for receiving a housing fee with the fact that they once bought cheap apartments, don't be mad at me through the President. That's just completely out of line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u37	Thank you. Mr Černoch, after him the Minister and after him Mr Birke, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, it was said here that this or that government wanted to do something about it, what was done wrong and how it was actually being done and how many years were being worked on. We came up with a proposal, and it's not a proposal that should interfere with anything. It's a proposal to stop the messing that's rampant in this category, and I think very, very, very well. I would therefore ask you to support our proposal, with the fact that, of course, it is necessary to work on it, and I think that this proposal has a head and a heel and is mainly meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u39	Yes. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I really beg you to reduce the noise level in the hall again, because it is really impossible to understand the speaker anymore and it is very difficult for all of us. Madam Secretary, I'll wait for my words to fall on fertile ground. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u40	Just a technical comment on the social benefits. We probably don't have the room to explain them in detail, but I just want to remind you that the living minimum of your maximum amount for a single adult is about CZK 3,400, and that's a dose that's supposed to be enough per month for you to eat, dress and some basic hygiene needs. Then people who fall into real poverty have a minimum of existential, and that's 2,200 per month. Then just so we all know how much we're moving in. Twelve thousand - I don't know where anybody got it. These are different types of benefits, such as tied up with care for disabled people, but this is a completely different category.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u41	Mr Birke, Mr Fiedler also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be really short, and I will allow you to respond to President Stanjuru's previous speaker. Yes, you're right that cities and municipalities today have the tools to deal with the situation. But it's often about the personal bravery of the mayors. Personal bravery. And do you know where the merit is? The Merit thing is, to some extent, the state created a problem for the mayors, that's how he put it on their shoulders - deal with it. That's the first thing. And the other thing. Those people who live in those cities are attacking the mayors and yelling at the mayors: do something about it! And now the mayors are among the mill wheels, and to some extent they don't know how to handle it. But I agree with what you're saying. And second point. Yes, there is a distinction to be made. The business that we're in today, and then the recipient. But I'm going back to what I said. At the moment, if social security benefits have been taken from us at the office of work, the mayor has no control over social welfare payments. None. In other words, when we had it with us, we knew to some extent who the recipient was, whether they went to work, whether their children went to school or so. So, in short, and well, I agree, I don't want to criticize the plaintiffs. In short, I'm just describing the mayor's practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u43	First of all, I would ask again to reduce the noise in the room. I understand that the subject is very interesting and to some extent explosive, but I would like the atmosphere to be dignified. First of all. Secondly, I have four more factual points. So in the order that I accepted the applications, I'll give you my word. So now, Mr Fiedler with the facts, then Mr Stanjura, then Mr Chalupa, then Mr Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u44	Hello, Mr President, hello, fellow Members. I would like to respond to what has been said here from the mouth of my colleague Chalupa, Madam Secretary - that this law, or this issue, has been under discussion for 10 to 15 years. Madam Secretary said for years. The longer we push and delay this problem, the happier it will be for those not entrepreneurs with these real estates, but speculators with these real estates. And citizens who are affected by these problems, who must live in these problems, need solutions quickly. They've been waiting for them for a long time. Of course, a hasty matter will bring bad solutions, but I urge you to join our proposal to discuss the proposal in order to tune it out. So that we do not delay the time during which these speculators will essentially receive taxpayers' taxes because it is a transfer of money that we citizens pay on taxes and these speculators collect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u45	Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u46	A brief response to colleague Birke. I'm gonna pick up the brave mayors. I didn't mean to attack the government. And you're absolutely right, and I appreciate these mayors, and no matter what political party is at the forefront of trying to solve the problem. I agree that this is about personal courage not only for the mayor, but also for the secretary and people who are in daily contact either with the owners or with those who sometimes use the benefits, I would say, when they force and threaten the ladies in a rude way sometimes - because they usually do ladies in social unions. I just want one thing to transfer competences. I myself was surprised because I had the experience when it was discussed, so for our club, then the biggest government, I told the Minister that we would only support it in a variant with which the Union of Towns and Municipalities would agree. And these very arguments were that I think the worst thing is to divide it. I imagine the whole thing will go to the state, the whole thing will stay in the government as it was. That's how it split up, and in my opinion, it was, and it's the worst option. However, to my surprise here, we as Members have received the approval of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. In the end, I accepted as former mayor that my successors just know when they want to deal with it this way, and they can, so why would I be smart here and vote against what the Union of Towns and Communities agreed to. That's the only explanation. Otherwise, I don't think the solution is happy. However, if, I would say, a construction organization that represents many cities and municipalities, it gives my consent, then I had no problem supporting it, and I did not want to fight my former colleagues like that. But I agree with you on that evaluation. We're no different from this, that this distribution is the worst thing, that one pays and the other one has the so-called. doing social research, social work, and that's not gonna happen at all. And we suggested at least this thing, let it be technically paid by the office of employment, but to make the documents, the amount, set up by the municipalities. [[Time warning]] Then I think it would work much better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u47	Mr Chalupa, then Mr Faltýnek, also factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u48	Maybe I didn't say exactly, I'm not as experienced as some of my colleagues. A dose of 12,000. is 50 to 100 thousand for four-member families in cities. population. But what I meant was that the sum of all the state's social assistance to people who don't work exceeds 12,000. CZK, which is 4,000 more than the minimum wage. If this stays on, this imbalance, you really have social tension here. And of course, I'll speak for myself, I don't always like to be spoken for, I certainly didn't want to touch seniors. The point is, the thing is so complicated and it has so many input parameters, it's just that we're just going to talk about whether or not the pensioners privatized the apartments or whether or not there's a minimum wage here, that's probably not gonna solve anything. So it's a system thing and probably a proposal, like I said, I welcome the initiative, but that's a much deeper problem, and it's probably gonna have to be resolved in a completely systemic way, and more heads know more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u49	Another factual point by the Member and chairman of the club YES, Mr Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u50	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't want to get out and stall at all. However, Mr Schwarz will perform for our club. And the debate shows that this problem needs to be addressed. But it has been said here several times, and I apologize to my colleagues from Dawn and Radim, my colleague from Prostějov, and I say this on purpose, because I will get to that in a brief remark, as we, in Prostějov, have solved this problem. And there's more of us here. Mrs Chalánková, colleague Holík and some others who are from one city are here. But my colleague Chalánková is from Prostějov, so she can tell how we solved this problem in Prostějov. And we solved it that way, and it was about the courage that President Stanjura was talking about, that we just knocked the place down, and we put the people in place, we bought them properties, we gave them apartments around town, around the county, and that's not where the problem is today. That's the first thing. The second thing I want to say. 15 years ago, in Prostějov, as a representative and councilman, I pushed through to completely privatize the housing fund. And today, when you look into that town, and we've been selling apartments to existing tenants for 50 to 80 thousand. CZK, which was a small price at the time, but today the properties are all repaired, they have new facades, towers, balconies, private owner takes care of it considerably better than the city, and we kept a thousand apartments for social needs. So much for my comment on what's going on here right now, there are locations where it can be dealt with. I'm sure we need to move this legal standard forward. Unfortunately, in this state, as it is today, it is not compatible with existing legislation, so it would be good for us to move this matter forward as soon as possible at the government level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u51	Now Minister Dienstbier has the floor, who was about to reply in the form of a factual comment in response to Mr Foldyna's question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a question here about the deadline for the submission of certain standards, namely the amendment to the Act on material distress. I would like to inform you that the Government has approved a timetable for the drafting of the Government's legislative plan and that individual departments should submit their proposals by Monday, 17 February, including the deadline for this plan. With the fact that specifically as regards the law on material distress, virtually. his amendments, we assume that we will not continue to discuss the amendment that Rusnokův's government was working on, and after consulting the Minister of Labour, we agreed that it is the government's intention to address this as one of the key priorities, and therefore to present as quickly as possible the amendment to the Act on Material Needs. The question is whether we will have to open up some other laws in this context to solve the most pressing problems. But as I was saying, it's a priority, and we assume that from the resort it should go into an inter-departmental commentary procedure within two months at the latest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u53	Mr Urban, then Mr Birke - all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make an exception. I usually speak on economic issues, but President Faltýnek here said experience from Prostějov. There are plenty of brave mayors in the Czech Republic. We also have it - in Čáslav, but it is not a solution for the Czech Republic. Because if you solve Prostějov, there is a problem in another city of the Czech Republic. So you didn't solve the problem, you just moved it from your town somewhere else. And I think it is necessary to address the situation throughout the Czech Republic. I think it's time we didn't kind of tiptoe around this issue, and we weren't Pharisee. We say something, something else we think, some other steps we take within parliament or government. And here is an opportunity, because this is a big problem, it is a big problem for all democratic parties in the Czech Republic, for all citizens in the Czech Republic, and I think this is not a subject of coalition-position, this is a serious topic and it is a topic on which everyone should participate. And I feel that here is the will of all the political parties to participate in some solution, but must not just talk, there must be some actions. So maybe urban experience can be used, but it's not a solution. This must be addressed at the level of the government and at the level of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u55	Mr Birke withdraws his point of order. Mr Černoch and Mrs Černochová have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u56	We have a little bit of family. It'll be very short. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to thank Mr Urban for his words, because that is exactly how it is. I absolutely do not question the courage of the council, the mayors, but when it is only at this level, where the problem is solved, it will arise elsewhere. And our proposal is precisely to just deal with it conceptually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u57	Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u58	Good morning. I will not support this proposal, which is presented by Dawn, and I will not support it because it is too complex. Our Senator for ODS Zeman has either submitted a proposal in these days or the past, which also addresses what you are proposing, but the proposal actually solves problems a little bit more. So it's not that we don't feel the need for the ODS to solve this problem, we feel it as much as you do, but we'll have a proposal of our own. I think there's one more thing worth considering. The Czech Republic has a primate in that we have the largest number of municipalities throughout the European Union. I don't know the number right now, it's about 6,300. Other communities are created, whether it be by merging or distributing military retreats when they come on the agenda of this meeting, and I think that's a problem. I wish the mayors and I wish the citizens of the community to have the right to self-government. On the other hand, can the Czech Republic afford it? Isn't that the problem? Isn't it possible to coordinate matters better on the part of inadaptable people, on the part of social benefits within the regions, within the capital city of Prague? I am the mayor of the Prague 2 district, where there are 50 thousand. population. We also have a dormitory there. We also have problems there. On the other hand, I'm responsible for saying, I don't think I'm being brave enough. You guys know me better be right. On the other hand, given the criminalization of the political scene in the Czech Republic, and we all see it, it is a matter of time before someone or the mayor comes to mind that he is using his authority because he is tasking the administration. There was a mention here that it all happened in the past at the authorities. Yes, social benefits were paid out at the authorities, but again, it was a division of government and self-government, so nothing really changed about this except that it moved somewhere else. But he is still an official covered by legislation other than us who are elected and officials who are subject to us as self-government. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So please the Public Administration Committee to deal with the number of municipalities in the Czech Republic, so that this problem can also be dealt with effectively from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u59	That was the last point of fact. I don't see any more, so let's get back to proper applications. After about half an hour, Mrs Olga Havlová arrived. Please, you have the floor. There was an application by the rapporteur, Ms Chalánková, somewhere at the moment, so Mrs Havlová will have the floor of the rapporteur and then Mr Rykala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u60	Mr President, fellow Members, I am glad that this amendment has caused so much emotion here and that it affects everyone. I very briefly want to fully support from this place the amendment of the law on aid in material distress presented by my colleague David Kádner. As has already been said, the law has long been prepared and discussed with the mayors of the most affected areas. My colleague David Kádner and I are from areas where unfortunately there are problems with the abuse of benefits of aid in material distress. It's nothing against anyone, but the real nature of the problem can hardly be understood by anyone who doesn't really move in this area. The problems of housing with socially inadaptable citizens have a huge negative impact on the environment. Imagine a normal decent person who suddenly has a troubled hostel next to his house. The impact on his life is terrible, surrounded by dirt, noise and crime. In the Moravian-Silesian region there are incredible 200 hostels for the socially weak. In addition, a number of them have found that they work illegally. Hostels often don't have a building authority permit. Many objects for which millions are collected are officially offices or business premises. A number of properties are used in violation of the approval decision. The abuse of benefits also means a burden on the state register. The owners of the residential hotels are literally sucking out the state. The cost of paying for the support is skyrocketing. Just for your information: 523 miles paid off in 2007. CZK and in 2012 it was already three times, 1.6 billion. Indeed, it is not about increasing the number of people in need, but some would-be entrepreneurs have just learned to abuse welfare perfectly. The abuse of social benefits was one of the major pre-election topics, and we come up with a concrete solution here. The housing supplement is intended to be covered by a rental map issued by the Ministry of Regional Development and should not be paid at all if the apartment is used in violation of construction or hygiene needs. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that if you drop this draft under the table, you will only hide from the problem that exists in the Czech Republic. If you say no, you should also say immediately what you want to do with this problem. The only thing that we agree on here is that this problem exists, it needs to be addressed, and there is no need to allow funds from the state budget to be drawn unnecessarily. If you want to save money, support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u61	The rapporteur, Mrs Chalánková, will now speak. Mr Rykala will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very glad that there has been such a rich and tangled debate about this very serious issue. It is clear to all that coordinated action will be needed. We also discussed this topic at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy on 23 January this year, where we unanimously agreed that we would need to coordinate the procedure and request cooperation from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry for Regional Development and the Ministry of the Interior, which I will explain later. [[10.10 hours]] It is clear what we have heard here that it is impossible to drive these unfortunate people from city to city and pretend that we have solved our problem in this way. It is a škoda that the chairman of the Faltynek Club, who named me as an ID of the city of Prostějov, has left. I don't want to talk about the solution in Prostějov in his absence. Yet it has already been said that it is not possible to solve the problem of one city at the expense of another city. These procedures have been here for years. Based on the experience of the town of Prostějov, which solved its problem by purchasing properties in the villages that are in the vicinity of Prostějov, through real estate agencies and without informing the mayors of these small villages... Although they have solved their problem, they have transferred the burden to these small villages, for which the problem is even worse and more difficult, because they do not have the capacity-equipped authorities of their municipalities. This is a really big problem for them. It was a guide that was very surprising for us as citizens back then, because we didn't even assume that anything like this was possible at all. It is true that such procedures have been taken over by some other cities, especially large and rich cities, which have enough funds to purchase properties in small poor municipalities, especially those in former Sudeten, at the outskirts of Šluknov, Jesenick etc. In this way, too, the whole families were evicted into these properties, which were purchased by cities through real estate agencies on the basis of a clearly traceable procedure and were also mapped through the Ombudsman's report in 2007. This report is available on the Ombudsman's website. In this report, it is possible to read that some cities managed to crowd out the citizens they wanted to get rid of into the last apartment buildings when adapting their housing fund through privatization processes. From these apartment buildings they then moved them into villages, even outside the border of the region. This procedure was again carried out through real estate agencies. What is very alarming is that in this way the families were moved to an environment where they did not have sufficient background, the possibility of employment, but especially families with children. There has been difficult monitoring of the institutions of social-law protection of children, and to this day, even though an amendment to the Act on Social-Legal Protection of Children has been adopted, which speaks of the fact that children cannot be taken away from their parents because of social and housing emergencies, yet unfortunately they often do so, which is absolutely unacceptable in a civilised Europe. That is why I am very pleased that we can agree on the coordinated procedure of all the political parties and ministries that I have appointed, and we must outline this problem in a really conceptual manner. There are more of these conceptual documents. On the basis of eviction reports, a methodological recommendation was made to municipalities to prevent social exclusion. It is available on the website of the Ministry of the Interior, at the Public Administration Supervisory Department. Why am I talking about the Ministry of the Interior and the Department of Public Administration Supervision? It is mainly about the competences of municipalities and their rights, but also about obligations. And here we come to the outlines of what such a social housing law should look like. There is a government-approved Housing Development Concept by 2020. It's available, I won't worry about it anymore. Then there is the concept of social housing, a comprehensive solution from the workshop of the Ministry for Regional Development, which has not been accepted, and there are a lot of unfinished comments that really are of a fundamental nature, because there is an assumption of building apartment buildings with common facilities etc. from European money. It is simply quite a matter not yet discussed and this solution has not yet been adopted. There is a relatively successful concept of prevention and solution of homelessness in the Czech Republic by 2020. Here we are already seeing that it will be necessary to establish a range of authorised persons and also to lay down the obligations of municipalities. And here we are at what I was talking about. We really need to sit down for one negotiating table, find an agreement with the Union of Towns and Municipalities on not pushing these people from city to city, but on the basis of an agreement, we will draw up a social housing law that lays down, on the one hand, the obligations of these municipalities... Here, of course, we come to the brink of what the government and self-government are, that is very clear to me. But on the basis of that, if these municipalities were to get responsibilities, they would also have to have resources to do so. That's clear to all. This means that we can proceed further on the basis of this agreement. As far as social work is concerned, it is certainly necessary to open a law that regulates the responsibilities of municipalities or the possibility of adapting legislation on social work in the community as has already been said here. It's rather vague there. Here I was talking about many conceptual documents. There was talk of an amendment to the law on aid in material distress. There are several options - the parliamentary option and also the government variant of former Prime Minister Rusnok. Indeed, there is a period in which to receive benefits of material distress for a period of six months, after an examination for a period of one year. But we're still not getting to what happens with these people. Indeed, we cannot drive them from city to city, but we need to find a common solution. The Committee on Social Policy has dealt with this, as I have already said. I am still returning to the past to the government of Petr Nečas, which, when discussing the last austerity package, which we accepted very hard, of course, because it was clear that it was necessary to save money, that the money would probably not be printed anywhere if I left behind some government printer or State printer... Money certainly doesn't come out of nothing and it is necessary to treat each crown very responsibly. Therefore, I feel very sensitive that these costs are increasing. Indeed, there are transfers in benefits from state social support and in doses of material emergency, so there is still a need to find an accurate solution. Although there was already a proposal to unify this levy, but rather strict in that the costs would be paid up to 0.5 per 50 per cent of the household's income if they exceed, this proposal was not mentioned and was excluded from this austerity package because of the government's social responsibility. On the basis of its resolution, the Committee on Social Policy is counting on it to hold a joint meeting of the Gesture Committees, both because of the involvement of the Public Administration Committee and how the public administration organisation will actually proceed, in order, on the one hand, to establish an obligation for municipalities and the form of resources, i.e. as well as the Committee on Budget, but at the same time we also want to hold expert tables and we need to work very quickly. The contours of this bill are clear, and it is necessary to tell the mayors that they will actually touch them and that it is necessary to speak responsibly about who citizens live in, what is actually an institute of permanent residence, temporary residence, and where the citizens really want to be and who runs the hostels. Unfortunately, sometimes they are also mayors of municipalities in some isolated cases. So it's good to know these bonds and proceed to a comprehensive solution. That is why, in a detailed debate, I will then join the motion to reject this very narrow bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u63	Thank you, Madame. Before I invite Mr Rykala to the microphone, please Mr Kubíček, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u64	Madam President, dear government, dear colleagues, I have only two points. Since the first previous speaker, Mrs Havlová, I have heard that there are uncooled hostels, hostels that do not comply with the construction rules and hygiene conditions. I would like to ask, through Madam President, why this is not happening. Why aren't we closing these hostels in this case and shutting them down? And then I would have a second comment on Mrs Chalánková. We are certainly dealing with the short-term situation in this matter by creating social housing. However, the promotion of job creation and the economy must be an integral part, because the exclusion and creation of new ghettos will only deepen this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, please, Mr Rykala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u66	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on this amendment of the law that has come to our attention from the group of Members. It is an amendment to the law on aid in material distress, which should address the situation not only of usury, as you say, but also of the hostel situation. [[10.20 hours]] The former Prime Minister Rusnok's government disagreed with this proposal, this amendment to the law, and I have to agree with this government position in almost all areas. This proposed legislation on aid in material distress is very imperfect. We all agree without a doubt that the problem of residential and social housing for our socially weaker citizens needs to be addressed. It bothers us all, not only Šluknovský výkům, as you mention in your explanatory report, but it worries, I think, all the regions of the Czech Republic. Nowadays, hostels are not only a place for citizens to live, but - and we also agree on that from the discussion - are a lucrative business for some entrepreneurs. We must therefore, in my opinion, adopt a social housing law and we must put a price on rent in these residential hotels and I think that we must also put a price on housing. It is not possible to tolerate the condition when the owners of these hostels charge 12,000 crowns per bed per month. It is not possible for people to have no choice but to live in such hostels. This problem therefore concerns all regions. Some more, some less. We therefore need a new, comprehensive regulation of the law on aid in material distress and we also need to adopt a law on social housing, which is completely lacking in the Czech Republic. This matter must thus be dealt with much more comprehensively than simply by adding one paragraph on two lines to the law. However, it must be said that the idea of amending the legislation on aid in material distress is very necessary, so I welcome this initiative by the appellants. I think we will be able to open up a debate on social housing and material distress, but I also think that the current new government should urgently address this situation and should present a comprehensive amendment to the law this year. You see, honourable Members, unfortunately today I cannot support this amendment proposal, I cannot vote in favour of it, and I will be voting in favour of the rejection at first reading. Not because it is a proposal from opposition Members, but simply because it is imperfect. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will certainly listen to the appellants' comments in this regard and listen to the comments from this whole debate, and I believe that even after the discussion with the social partners, even after the discussion, the mayors will therefore prepare a comprehensive solution that I think we need. You know, there's one thing I have to say again. I apologize to the petitioners. This is not only the Šluknovska problem, it is not only the Mostecka problem, but it is the problem of all corners of the Czech Republic, because it is a problem that burns us all. That is why this is a problem for all of us, and I thank you for the debate that is taking place here, and I thank the Minister for focusing on this issue as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u67	Thank you, Mr Member, and please another duly signed up for the debate, and this is Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u68	Hello, everyone. Madam President, fellow Members, Government, today I will show you how tactically I have failed. An hour ago, I applied properly, and thanks to my lack of control, I sat for an hour and you said everything I wanted to say. So I would just ask you, and especially those colleagues over there, not to be offended, because I can't, and I hope that even for our club, support their proposal, but thank you for cheering it up. [[Members of the Úsvit movement]] And I'm glad to be there when I'm no longer with my colleagues, my friends, knowing that I can't change that. Now I can change that, they've already given me a mandate, and I'll be there with all of you, that we'll change it very quickly. And I'm glad that Minister Dienstbier also spoke of it, and you, Madam Secretary, are preparing it, and soon the government will show us what it has proposed, and that we will complete it, and it will all be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u69	Thank you, Mr Member, and I ask if anyone else wants to join the general debate. With Mr Fiala in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u70	Since no one's coming forward, let me say a few more words. As my colleague Faltýnek and Jitka Chalánková were told here about how this was dealt with in Prostějov, that it is on the personal responsibility of the mayors, I agree with that. But that's not a conceptual solution, because there's gonna be someone else who's just gonna look into this business of human misery, buys a new property, and starts doing business, and we're gonna tear it down again, we're gonna deal with it again. We need a comprehensive solution! I want to appeal once again to this, I want to say that it is admirable how much time we will spend in this Chamber of Debriefing, how much time we will spend around the bill of illustration, which, today, almost nobody cares, and how little we are willing to do to resolve the particular situation in this country. So I say, if we want to continue sending billions of businessmen to human misery and those who make up this ghetto, reject the law! If we want to deal with a specific situation, let's let him go on reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since no one else... Until the general debate, Mr. MP... [[Foretold:]] Adamec and Mr. Beznoska. Is it factual, or is it a general debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u72	Thank you. It is factual, Madam Vice-President. I see you can't come up with my name, but we'll get used to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u73	I'm sorry, but there's too many of you from A.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u74	I might have reacted very briefly. I keep hearing "solve quickly" here. I think we have a good deal to deal with, because I would like this bill, plus I'm one of the mayors, so I know what I'm talking about. I could discuss and contradict a lot of claims here today, but I did not consider it necessary, because I understand the approach to this problem. He's making trouble for all of us, not just in Mosteck or in Usteck or in Ostrava, as I've heard here, but I'd like us not to say "let's do it fast" here. I think we're supposed to say, "let's figure it out and figure it out so it works out well so we don't have to go back to it all the time." Mr. Werich said, "All the squatting, you know what it's good for." Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please Mr. Beznoska. Once again, I ask: factual or general debate? [[It's going to be factual.]] Really. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u76	hezký morning, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate - we are really spinning in circles: either to support or not to support. But I will not support it in good faith, because as the debate was going on here, I will say this practical experience. Young Boleslav - we graduated both. At first we progressed the style of Prostějov, which means that the troubled got out of the cadastral city, simply other locations etc. That's where it caused the problems you can imagine. And then a standard example - a residential hotel in a housing estate, 120 flats, 120 inadaptable families and social problems. It's a huge problem. So that's what I'm seeing. However, the only correct solution is to really prepare the law on social housing, etc., to pursue it. This is only a short cut that can't be supported in this form. The Civil Democratic Party will come up with its own proposal, or after the debate in the Committee on Social Policy, and the debate has also been, we will join this solution because it is burning, it costs us billions. But you need to look at it complexly, not to pull this complex problem out of context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u77	děkovat you, Mr. Ambassador, and another with Mr. Birke in fact. Your two minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. I'm very sorry to keep you, I've been performing for the third time. It looks like it's my favorite topic, but it's not my very favorite topic, but it's true that the first year of my mandate as mayor of the city I haven't dealt with anything else. You know, I don't want to look like a schizophrenic who talks about the need to deal with this, and then I won't support a group of Members' proposals. Even though you have all my respect because you have come up with this proposal, and I think that not only mayors who are 6,000 in the Czech Republic, but I think 10 million people - or 10 million, with all due respect, a huge number of Czech residents are waiting for this. But since there are really little nuances that need to be worked out, I will vote that I will not support the draft, and I will wait for the government amendment. [[10.30 hours]] But let me just say one nuance that hasn't been mentioned here yet. You know, it's not just about social housing. It's about ordinary apartments. You're gonna have an apartment that's empty, or you're gonna have one or two or five, and today it's a good business, so you're gonna have ten, you're gonna move these people into those ten apartments, you're gonna collect rents from the employment office. And it's just a good job, 'cause you're gonna get a refund for that one tenant you have in those apartments, you could have 15 in those apartments. And then the paradox is that the same person comes to the mayor and says, Mr. Mayor, do something about it, you have a lot of them here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another registered point of fact is Mr Jiří Mihola. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u80	Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, enough has been said here, there have been various arguments. I would also like to express myself very briefly for the KDU-ČSL club, so that it does not sound like we are missing this issue or are not interested in it. We discussed it with our colleagues, of course, and we appreciate the activities of Dawn, but we perceive that this important, complex issue needs to be dealt with comprehensively, systemicly. I would apply to what has already been said here. A colleague quoted Mr. Werich. Jan Amos Komenský already said that all squatting is good for an asshole. Thank you for your attention. We will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And since I no longer have anyone enrolled in the general debate, this general debate is over and I ask the appellant or rapporteur whether they want to have the final word. Isn't that right? Please, Ambassador Kádner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u82	Thank you. One more time, ladies and gentlemen. I am very glad that this issue has raised such a proper discussion here. I think it's at least something that may have gone well today. But I have to say, with this novel, I'm at this counter for the second time, and the second time I hear what we've heard today, it means arguments as it's extremely important, arguments that something has to be done about it. And yes, a year ago, when I was standing here at the turn of April and May, it was mostly about the affected regions. And we have made it clear that it is a matter of time before it simply spreads across the whole territory of the Czech Republic. And it did. And, of course, the things of the kind of mayors that have, let's say, more courage or no. I don't think it should be about courage. It should be about clear rules that mayors should follow, and I am glad that mayors of the city, or municipalities, have spoken here. But this shut-off, when it was said here that it only applies to such a paragraph, it will mainly help the smaller municipalities, which do not have a building office on their cadastral or more or less at the office, and where we have to write long because we have some suggestions that we only suspect that there are a lot more people in these apartments etc., they are not logged in because the mayor is voicing everything at this point, but he doesn't see anything. We can only assume or in some way determine whether neighbors who come to complain to me are right or wrong. I'm really asking you to let this go to the committees. I believe that, and I am sure that this amendment may have a lot of shortcomings in some way, but it is such a quality chassis for us to talk about it in committees and to make something of it and give a clear incentive to not just talk about it here, but that we are doing something. I don't want to say that the new government is just promising because, of course, it didn't have a chance to do anything else. I'm just saying, I was standing here almost a year ago, and I've heard those words, those promises. Thank you again so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u83	I thank the appellant and please the rapporteur for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u84	I'm not going to go back to that. There's been a lot of noise here, just for a short time. It is clear after all this trash debate that a truly comprehensive coordinated solution should come. In addition to the proposal for a return to recasting, there was also a motion for refusal at first reading, with which I agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-001-024.u85	Thank you, Madame. As two proposals have been made in the general debate, we will vote on them. The first proposal was to return the proposal to the applicant for completion and the second to reject the proposal. I am taking the vote on the proposal to refer the proposal back to the applicant's work. I'm opening the vote now and asking who's in favour. Who's against it? I conclude with this vote and note that the vote number 104 has ended as follows: 173 Members signed in, for 56, against 71. The motion was denied. [[Big noise in the hall.]] We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposal to reject the proposal. I'm opening the vote now and asking who's in favour. Who's against it? With this vote, I conclude and note that the vote number 105 has ended this way: 174 Members of which have signed up for 101, against 19. The motion was accepted. The present proposal is hereby rejected. Before we proceed to the next point of action... I'm gonna ask you to calm down! Thank you. Before we come to paragraph 25, I offer an apology to Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnickýý from today's meeting, which he had to leave for urgent work reasons. So let's go to point number
