ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and Act No. 418/2011 Coll., on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them, as amended by Act No. 105/2013 Coll. House print 45/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. I see the Minister. Before he comes in quietly, I'd ask the House. Madam Secretary, a little while, because we're going to be dealing with a change in the rapporteur. Since the Minister was designated as rapporteur for this press, it is necessary for the House to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur, and that is what Mr Jan Chvojka is. I'll ask the House if it has any reservations or if we can vote. I can't see. I checked you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards. In voting order number 26, we will decide on a new rapporteur. Who agrees that the rapporteur of this press should be colleague Jan Chvojka? I've started a 26-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 26 of the 146 present for 139, against 1. The motion was accepted. I would ask my colleague Chvojka to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I now ask the Minister of Justice Helena Válková to take the floor in the opening word for press 45. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce to you here the government proposal that we have adopted and which introduces into our criminal code - in particular the Criminal Code - he amends two other laws - two new facts of criminal offences that we could include under the broader term protection against any acts and actions related to child prostitution. [[There's a lot of restlessness and noise in the room.]] That is why we adopted this law, too, because I think that the Czech Republic should have inexhaustible protection against such kinds of behaviour. There have been some gaps in our Czech criminal law so far, although I must say that relatively minimal compared to other European countries. The aim of the proposed amendment, which concerns three laws, the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code and the Criminal Liability Act of legal persons, is therefore to improve, improve Czech legislation, but also to meet the requirements by which we are bound by EU law, namely to align our legal order with Directive 2011/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm gonna interrupt you for a second. I'll ask the House for peace! Colleagues who have subjects other than press 45, I would ask that they move their debates into the lobby and have the Minister present this press. It's not easy, and I think we should watch it. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u4	Thank you, too, Mr Vice-President. I'm going to try to shorten it in some way and characterize only substantial changes. I know that none of us wants to listen to the full list and the designation of individual directives, but I have to do so, because that is why we have decided to adopt this law, even if we have reservations in one area, or we might have reservations that we will try to remove until second reading and during the work in the relevant committees. So the aim of the proposed amendment is to align Czech legislation with three directives. First, Directive 2011/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2011 on the prevention, fight and protection of victims, replacing Council Framework Decision 2002/629/JHA by another Directive 2011/1993/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the fight against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, replacing Council Framework Decision 2004/1968/JHA and finally Directive 2012/13/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2012 on the right to information in criminal proceedings. [[11.50 hours]] A minor amendment to the Criminal Code is therefore proposed in order to fully implement Council Framework Decision 2008/913/JHA of 28 November 2008 on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia through criminal law. This amendment does not directly relate to the main centre of gravity, which, I say, lies in improving protection against child pornography. It can be noted that the vast majority of the requirements arising from the directive on the prevention of trafficking in human beings, the fight against it and the protection of victims and the directive on the fight against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and against child pornography are already, as I said, contained in the rule of law, and therefore we are only taking partial changes in this area. First of all, these are two amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the two new facts mentioned by me will be supplemented. Specifically, it is a crime of participation in a pornographic performance - it is Section 193a of the Criminal Code, the new one if we approve it. It is proposed to affect participation in a pornographic performance in which the child acts. Moreover, there is a distinction between a child in general, that is to say, up to the age of 18, and then it will be more strictly criminal if a child under the age of 15 participates in such a performance or performance. Furthermore, the offence of making illicit contact with a child is added, or it would be a new provision of Section 193b of the Criminal Code, and this already introduces a criminal offence that has not yet been committed, a deliberate act in which an adult proposes to meet a child who has not reached the age of sexual maturity in order to commit an offence of sexual abuse or similar offences. We could have done this already under existing legislation, but only if it was a preparation for a particularly serious crime, which some of the crimes mentioned here do not meet this requirement. It also extends the existing factual nature of the crime of production and other treatment of child pornography, which complements the sanction of intentional access to child pornography through information or communication technologies. In order to meet all the requirements in the fight against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, it is also necessary to add additional crimes for which legal persons may be prosecuted to the law on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them. Specifically, here in the proposal is the crime of rape, participation in a pornographic performance and making illicit contact with the child. And here is the weak point of the adjustment for which I would personally propose to withdraw - but after the discussion and the government have decided not to do so - the government proposal. I mean, we have - and many of you are even the author or co-author of proposals for an amendment to the relevant law, or criminal liability of legal persons - proposals to supplement the list of offences for which a legal person can be put before a criminal court. Here, only those crimes directly related to child pornography are being proposed, and in this sense, it might seem at first glance that we could wait and make a more complex amendment. In such a case, the amendment to the Law on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons is not complicated, even if it has a comprehensive scope. But precisely because the transposition periods have already partially expired here, only the last one will expire in the first half of 2014, and because the legislative process has been going on too long, we have decided that this law will be brought forward with the fact that the amendment of one of the three laws in question, precisely this law on the criminal liability of legal persons, by trying to supplement this provision further in the context of the discussion in the relevant committees, so that all the offences that are currently lacking there - both property and economic crime - are more involved in the proposed wording. I do not think that this should be an obstacle to the adoption of better, more thorough, more comprehensive and, moreover, European law prescribed protection against any actions relating to child pornography. The directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings also serves to achieve full implementation. Here too, partial amendments to criminal legislation had to be made. New law enforcement authorities shall be required to transmit without delay to the person who has been detained or arrested, a simple, understandable written instruction on his rights and to enable him to read this lesson and to retain it with him throughout the time he is deprived of his freedom. Also, according to the requirements of the directive, certain rights which are not specifically instructed by the person arrested or arrested, although guaranteed by the Czech law, such as the right to urgent medical assistance, the right to be informed by the consular office and one other person at the time of arrest or detention, are also added. As you know, as well as in connection with the recently adopted law on victims of crimes, the responsibilities of law enforcement authorities in criminal proceedings against those injured here in particular have been greatly extended. Now it's also getting to the level of pre-trial proceedings in relation to detainees or arrested persons. I think that this is the most necessary and welcome regulation for the public, and this also brings us into line with the requirements of EU law, which is very strict with regard to awareness and the right to provide information in relation to all those who are subject to criminal prosecution and subsequently subject, that is to say, arrested and arrested here, later accused. So, after considering all these circumstances, that we will significantly improve the protection against all acts, activities, actions related to child prostitution, improve the rights of those arrested, detained on information, and add such a minor amendment to the fight against certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia to the criminal code, I recommend that the proposed amendments to these three laws be allowed to enter into further legislative discussions, and I point out here that, as regards the proposal for amending the law on criminal liability of legal persons, the Ministry of Justice will not prevent any further correction from taking place in the second reading. In the event that we withdraw this proposal as a complex one, the legislative process would extend four to five months, as I have calculated, and we would really be beyond the limits of the transposition deadlines. Moreover, as I say, the priority here is better protection from child prostitution. [[12.00 hours]] So, for your information, I am very self-critical for the Justice Department, and frankly here, there is one law that might look better, which is affected by the amendment, but I believe that we will be able to achieve this improvement within a standard 60-day period, with your assistance in the Constitutional Committee, or in other committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u5	Thank you, Minister of Justice Helena Válková. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jan Chvojka to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning or noon, ladies and gentlemen. I don't have much to say, in principle, because the Minister said it quite extensively and introduced us very closely to the submitted press, so I'm just going to recapitulate a few things briefly. This print number 45 amends three laws. The first is the Criminal Code, the second is the Criminal Code, and the third is the law amending the press is the law on the criminal liability of legal entities. The bill is submitted by the government, virtually. The Department of Justice. It was delivered to Members on 3 December last year. The draft law brings Czech law into line with the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, first of all, on the prevention of trafficking in human beings, the fight against him and the protection of victims, second, on the fight against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, and third, on the right to information in criminal proceedings. In principle, the aim of these directives, by virtue of this law, is to increase protection against trafficking in human beings and the protection of children from sexual attacks. I don't think it should be anything extra controversial, so it shouldn't be a political issue. And, of course, the individual nuances, as well as those mentioned by the Minister, can be discussed in the Constitutional Committee, where some things can still be changed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u7	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I am opening a general debate and registering two applications for this debate. The first enrollment is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u8	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am not going to propose a rejection or a re-evaluation because I am prepared to rewrite it on the floor of the Constitutional Committee in recent years and I do not see any major problem. On the other hand, I understand that the Minister has been at the Resort for a week and hasn't had enough time to get to know the material. It's something her predecessors were preparing. On the other hand, I claim that the material is, first, a set of stickers, or what else to call it. These things have nothing to do with each other. I don't understand why it's called the Penal Code. Why the first is the Code of Criminal Procedure, when the more fundamental changes are in the criminal law, which for some incomprehensible reason is put to the second place, so it seems to be actually a procedural standard, and the fundamental changes are made in a material standard, etc. It's just a little thing. It's like a dog and cat making a cake. It's got the rights of suspects mixed in -- all right, I guess we need to deal with it. A so-called defense against child pornography, which I say is written so scary, even contrary to the directive, that everyone in this country can actually go to jail for this. If we put "the same person will be punished by means of information or communication technology or try to gain access to child pornography" in criminal law, that is, with what happens today on the Internet, half the click that you often do by mistake is on the verge of being prosecuted by the police. So far, we've had, and we already knew that this was a problem, keeping child pornography on the computer, and we know the cases about whether these people even downloaded it. or they didn't. But the idea that the crime will be "trying to gain access" really seems to me to be on the verge of common sense, and I think we still need to think about it in the Constitutional Legal Committee. Plus, I'm saying the directive doesn't require it. She doesn't really have that request. So is Section 193a, a new, beautiful, cute novel. "He who attends a pornographic performance or any other similar performance in which he performs will be punished by imprisonment for up to one year." A child in this case means a person between 15 and 18 years of age. Not that I go to pornographic or other shows, but can either of you imagine how when you go to something like that, you let someone who goes there illustrate whether he's 18 years old or 18 years old? [[A note from a diaper about alcohol.]] With alcohol -- wait, wait. Mr. Colleague, since you're yelling "as much as alcohol" at me here. You're responsible for the alcohol if you pour it to anyone. Here you come to the show, you're looking at someone, and whoever's performing, if it's recognized as pornography, is to be illustrated as being over 18? Are you going to any musical where something appears that seems to be that, and you have to know in advance that all persons were over 18 years old? I'm just pointing out that these texts are very complicated. And the last thing that really amused me - a change in the law on the criminal liability of legal entities and the proceedings against them. We well know that the criminal liability of legal entities would deserve a much more fundamental amendment, a much more fundamental debate, what should be there, what should not be there. But if the only thing that adds to the criminal liability of legal entities is the participation in a pornographic performance, I'm really wondering how a legal person can participate in a pornographic performance. I'd really like to know. [[Cheer up in the hall and applause on the right.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u9	Before the next entry, with a factual remark, Mr Schwarz and the Minister, following a factual remark with priority right before the duly registered Member, Mr Jiří Pospíšil. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u10	Yes, I'll be quick. Hello, Mr President, colleagues. I'd like to ask Mr. Benda, I appreciate him, only if he wouldn't show me on the Internet at a break where I usually find the pages like this, because I've been working on it for years, and we have to search a lot to find out some things. But never mind, I'd like to see it. [[General cheer.]] And then I'd ask you, I'm not a student lawyer, like some of you here, but I really think there's also a little bit of the intention of this negotiation being investigated. And he's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u11	Thank you for keeping time. With priority rights, Mrs. Justice Minister Helena Válková. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. My colleague Pospíšil will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u12	Thank you. I'll be very brief because I'm just going to refer to my colleagues here to take a look at § 202 Seduction to sexual intercourse, where there is also a limit of 18 years for such a child. So this crime has been with us since 2009 with effect from 1. 1. 2010 in the new Criminal Code. No one questioned that anyone should illustrate that someone was threatened by the fact that, for example, in border areas as a visitor of the Czech Republic, they should be concerned if the child is 17, 16, 18 years old. This argument won't hold. Then I would recommend that we study the parts in the participation textbook, from which it is clear that a legal person may also commit rape by being an organizer or another participant in a criminal offence. So in this respect, I'm based on the fact that we have some basic knowledge and we're not going to question what the amendment proposal is based on. The other thing is, and I agree with Mr Benda on this, and I have frankly said here that I am also not thrilled that there are only three offences in relation to the criminal liability of legal persons. The two new facts and, of course, the rape related to it, if a legal person participates in it as a participant. I can imagine the wording that would have been said here that a legal person - we have also talked about it - is responsible for all crimes other than those from whose very nature it follows that a legal person cannot - that he cannot therefore commit them - except those for which the nature of the matter implies that a legal person cannot commit them. [[12.10 hours]] However, here we are before a certain dilemma, whether the law enforcement authorities will help with such a general wording, whether they will rather call for a list of offences, so that they do not have to think about it, especially the police, if it follows from the nature of the matter that a legal person can commit them or cannot commit them. This is exactly what I asked us to do in the context of the second reading negotiations, not to study the basics of criminal liability, namely participation in a crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u13	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Before the duly registered colleague Pospíšil, Mr Jiří Koskuba is on the verdict. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for speaking as a phlegm to a point concerning lawyers. I admit that in our country, as in many others, lawyers still have the opportunity to twist a lot and do so within the limits of the law. I, through Mr President, apologise to Mr Benda. I can imagine as a layman that a legal person is doing something where even child pornography takes place. She could be responsible from my point of view. That seems logical to me. But I wanted to do a whole other thing here. You are discussing important matters here, so I would like to ask you for one thing for myself and for the public - if you would not explain to us legal laymen how it will be in the future thanks to the decision of the Supreme Court with our police officers, who, as we see on the pages of the newspaper and in public discussions, are in a situation where their testimony suddenly leads to nothing. And why did I think of that at this point? If I went crazy on my computer and targeted child pornography, I suppose if the police confiscated it, she'd be the one to figure it out, and then I'd be kind of wondering if she'd ever get off with the pedophile having it. This is an incredibly serious matter. I know the courts are independent, but as a simple citizen, I am shocked by the Supreme Court's decision, and I would like to hear a certain answer to that today about what will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for almost keeping time. Otherwise, I think there'll be more room for that either during the speech of the Minister or tomorrow in the intercessions. Mr Jiří Pospíšil, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u16	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about this amendment to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code, because it must be said that the Czech Republic had a lot to do with these European standards at the time when we chaired the European Union, and we supported some things particularly in the area of procedural law at the time as the President. That is why I want to sign up for this proposal here and support the part of the submitted set of amendments to criminal legislation, which concerns particularly, let's say, the procedural aspects, by supplementing the catalogue of rights which the accused has in the course of criminal proceedings. It's a bit of a shame, and here I agree with my previous speakers that the novel is so sketchy and technically so glued. On the other hand, I think that it should not come to light that it makes great sense within the European Union to seek a certain basic minimum of procedural rights guaranteed by individual citizens of the European Union. I say this for this reason - it is good to repeat the context here - that a number of different instruments of criminal law, such as the so-called European Arrest Warrant, were adopted a few years ago, which caused some controversy and which, among other things, means that any citizen of the European Union may be given up against his will to another European Union state for prosecution. This means that the Čech Republic can be issued against its will to prosecute Romania if it is suspected that it has committed a particular crime in Romania. We did not agree to this at the time, because we think that a citizen should not be issued from the territory of his state, but this adjustment is here. If this is such an adjustment and, for example, there is a risk that Czechs will be prosecuted in Romania, Bulgaria, or somewhere else, and I do not want to touch any countries, then we should be interested in ensuring that there is a minimum guarantee of procedural rights within the European Union in all the countries of the European Union. That is why I support this, even if someone can say that it is wrong that we are regulating European procedural law here in such a small way, but I think that if we want to guarantee Czech citizens that if they are issued not only to Germany, Austria, but to Bulgaria, Romania, etc., some minimum standard of protection for their procedural rights, then we should support this. That is why I welcome this part of the amendment, the incorporation of the European Parliament directive, which is currently regulating information in criminal proceedings. As I said before, we supported this within the Presidency. The reason is that we already have a European arrest warrant with which - I will not deny - we did not agree at the time, so we need to make an adjustment so that it does not harm European Union citizens in individual states. It is important that the European Union does not just care about the introduction of these procedural rights, but that there is some sort of control over whether the basic procedural standard is indeed guaranteed to all those accused within the European Union. This is the problem in some of the new countries that have recently acceded. I wanted to say it here because I think it's important. The novel is as if a small, tiny, but philosophical idea is very important in my opinion. The second point I would like to make concerns substantive regulation. I have also noted from some of my fellow experts that the implementation - translation of the various factual elements and, above all, their modifications to child pornography - does not always correspond directly to European legislation, so it might be good, and here I agree with my colleague Benda, that the new administration and the new expert teams should check whether the implementation corresponds to what the European directives contain and, above all, the framework decision. I think it's important, too. I wanted to ask the Minister, and therefore also my speech, on § 192 para. 1 why the rate is halved in the basic facts. I don't mess with it. I have a question. When I studied the explanatory report, there's no reason for it. I do not know whether it is because of practice or because of comparison with other countries of the European Union. I want to say that the European regulation says that this fundamental reality should be affected by sanctions for at least one year, which means that it does not say that there is an upper limit of one year. I say I'm ready to support it, but I want to know the reasons, because that's a pretty significant change, the rate reduced to half, the basic disability of production and the treatment of child pornography. If we vote on this, we should know why. It is such a socially sensitive subject that it should not only be justified by comparing rates with other paragraphs. This is my question, which may not be answered today, but I point out that this is a sensitive topic and should not be underestimated in this regard. I repeat, § 192 para. One, half rate. My third point - I do not want to speak further - concerns the criminal liability of legal entities. The secretary here rightly said that two adjustments to the list of crimes that a legal person can commit are possible. So it's either an exhaustive list, or a general clause, that it could be all the crimes that a legal person can commit from the logic of the matter, if I paraphrase it a little bit. When we adopted the legislation, we came to an exhaustive list for reasons of legal certainty, both for citizens, legal firms and especially for law enforcement authorities, which then asked "please tell us what the legal person can and cannot commit, so that we do not get into a debate" - which you see here, in fact, when part of the colleagues here say: simply participation in a pornographic performance, or whatever it is called, can be committed by a legal person in the form of his participation, and someone says from the logic of the matter cannot commit it. Now it really needs to be an exhaustive list here, so that we can guarantee the facts to legal persons, but then to the natural persons who act for them, clear legal certainty as to what crimes this applies or not. [[12.20 hours]] My final comment on what the secretary said. I'm not defending the debate on the amendment to the Law on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons. But I'd really like to ask, before the circle gets a little populist around here, a list of crimes that a legal person can commit, please let's do an analysis in practice on how the law works. Let's not have another empty bubble here, the legislation we're going to applaud for, which will not be applied at all in practice. Really much please, because studies and experiences from some other states such as Hungary etc. show that they have also adopted similar legislation and that it is not very applied in practice. It would be really good to know before we adopt a change to this law, which is logically controversial, and it should be said that part of the legal community rejects at all the principle that a legal person should be criminally responsible, so it is good to evaluate what legislation has been applied here for several years, results and what could possibly be done to ensure that it is not unnecessary, empty law, but it has worked in practice. So many of my notes. And otherwise, as I said, I hope that this debate will continue on the committee responsible. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u17	I thank Mr Jiří Pospíšil. This was the last written entry into the debate. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate. I shall, of course, give the appellant and the rapporteur the floor of closing arguments. I do not see anybody in the debate, I am ending the debate and I am therefore asking the appellant's final word and the rapporteur has announced that he is not interested in the final word. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As regards the question which does not concern the current draft amendment to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code and the Criminal Liability Act of legal persons, I will probably refer there to tomorrow afternoon and to the interpelations that will be there. I am happy to tell my colleagues what I consider in this context, that is, how to deal with the testimony of, for example, police officers from the crime scene in terms of the usefulness of such information as evidence for the purposes of criminal proceedings. What I have learned, what I have studied and, of course, what is the practice in caselaw, how the Supreme Courts proceed, because this was a quote from one Supreme Court decision, and there are more decisions, and I am not sure that this is the key decision. But not until tomorrow. So I'm sorry I won't be more specific. As for the two comments made by Mr Pospíšil, I am happy to accept them. Specifically, as regards the lower rate, which fell from two years to one year in Section 192, it was also my question - why? The answer is in the sense that it is a certain balance. As we know, criminal rates are always meant to express a certain degree of social harm to a particular crime. By including two other new facts, and in this section 192 para. 2 the author of the draft has taken the view that it should be more criminal, because it is lower social harm than the new offences referred to in § 193a para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1. It was a mutual relationship, which is always very difficult to express, the degree of social harm to the particular forms of action, their balancing. I think that the correct answer is that he wanted to punish the new forms as little as possible, or to propose that they be at the lowest rate of punishment, and to bring them closer to the wording of the existing provisions of Paragraph 192 (1). So that the rate wouldn't stand for up to two years, he suggested one year there. It is also possible to have a technical and lay debate about this, with the fact that once there has been a change, of course, I would have to withdraw the law. It was more of an effort for me, not at all, but to adopt the law. Go ahead and say I don't stand up for him. If we have a professional debate in this regard within the Committee's work, I will only be happy, and I do not accept that one year must remain there at all costs. He surprised me a little bit, too. But I will not now criticize more than is strictly necessary, what I am presenting myself. That's all I can tell you right now. As far as criminal liability of legal persons is concerned, I am fully aware that, in terms of both a certain and a comparative view, when France went along a similar path as we did, it originally had a catalogue, an exhaustive list of all the criminal offences that could have been committed by a legal person, and then it changed it to a general definition, referring to all the offences except those that a legal person cannot commit from the nature of the matter, so I think that we could also go through this development, and it is a question of whether we have already reached it. So far, it's likely that we'll keep amending the law, and always at one or two-year intervals, we'll expand the catalogue of crimes for which legal persons can be held accountable. I think that this is not the best in terms of legal purism, the purity of the rule of law, and I am against frequent amendments myself. So I would rather go with the bolder solution with the ambition that the law enforcement authorities will deal with it, and commentary and publicity, or awareness, which will be better from the Justice Department than it has been before, will make it possible for legal persons not to have to worry unnecessarily and it was clear what they could be brought to trial. But maybe it's the music of the future. Even in this regard, we will certainly discuss this, or we will discuss it on the relevant committees, and I do not defend myself here either by leaving there for the purposes of this amendment only what concerns child pornography in the wider sense, or by adding to the property offences you most point out. I have seen some of these parliamentary proposals: usury, theft, embezzlement, which there is very much missing. Or we're going to go the third, bravest way, and we're going to change the definition that it's going to apply to all crimes except those where the nature of the matter shows that it can't be committed or committed by a legal person. Having taken into account everything that has been said here, I still think it is appropriate to support the amendment proposal, although with these reservations, I take note of it, I agree with the next legislative process. čili I suggest we proceed to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-005-007.u19	I thank the Minister for her final word, and because in the debate - the rapporteur controls me - there has been no proposal to return or reject it, we can address the commandments of committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone, so we can vote. I have begun voting order number 27 and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 27, from 179 in favour of 155, against 1, the proposal was adopted. That concludes the negotiations. I note that this order has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. The time limit shall remain in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur, and I finish point 7. [[12.30 hours]] According to our agenda, the next item will be:
