ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-005-055.u1	55. Government bill amending Act No. 279/2003 Coll., on the exercise of property and property security in criminal proceedings and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 305/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-005-055.u2	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, I think that this proposal will be useful for most of you, I would like to forecast because it is the implementation of the government's strategy to combat corruption, which has already been approved by the previous government for the period 2013 and 2014 and the concept of combating organised crime for the period 2011 to 2014. kupodivu, the bill has not yet been tabled to the Chamber of Deputies, or we are fulfilling an unfulfilled commitment. It is based on the conclusions of a government-approved analysis of the efficiency of the management of the secured property and the sale of the secured property. Experiences that show that it has not yet been possible, given the obstacles to the administration and de-use of property in criminal proceedings, to act so effectively within the criminal process that certain values will be protected by speculative negotiations and, in fact, by acts which, in many cases, will then end again with criminal penalties. This bill has already been developed on the basis of practical knowledge and reflects the outputs of the working group, which has been composed of experts dealing with this issue of drawing and securing property in the criminal field, not only lawyers but also economists. The proposed legislation improves the enforcement of the property claims of victims of crime. It complements existing legislation on property provision in criminal proceedings and removes fundamental uncertainties. It thus strengthens legal certainty in all respects, which is ensured by relevant criminal institutes. The application practice expects this new modification and welcomes it very much if you support it too. If I were to sum up the main meaning and objectives of the new legislation, the point is, firstly, to clearly design the management of the secured assets, namely to make it more efficient and reduce the financial intensity of the current administration; Secondly, to improve the status of victims of crime precisely in order to better secure their property rights, which are not yet sufficiently secured in current criminal proceedings; for further, extend the possibilities of effective collateralisation and draining the property of the person against whom criminal proceedings are conducted, which is not yet possible. That is why we propose - first - or, pointfully again, better: Expand and refine the terms and conditions of the sale of the secured property so that it can be quickly sold as it loses market value in some cases. Consider, for example: cars, electrical appliances etc. It will also be possible to sell assets the administration of which is associated with disproportionate difficulties or costs for the State. Furthermore, it is about clearly defining the rights and obligations of the trustee of the secured property. Again, it's derived from the nature of a particular thing. Others will be for movable material things, others will be for intellectual property. For another, abandon the actual management of secured real estate. We think it will be sufficient to provide administrative security through the real estate register if the owner is unable to burden his property or transfer it to someone else. Furthermore, it is an adjustment to the clear procedure for managing a secured holding in a commercial corporation. Unfortunately, the current legislation is not good in this regard yet. Even in the field of the remuneration of insolvency administrators, as currently laid down by the implementing decree in practice, it poses problems. Furthermore, it is an extension of the conditions for securing the property claims of a person injured by a criminal offence, even before the prosecution is initiated, to the property of a suspect if there is reasonable concern that the satisfaction of those claims would be undermined or aggravated, which is in practice a rule rather than an exception. Also, unlike the legislation in force, the damaged ones will no longer have to prove before. Allowing the provision of only parts of the property charged for the purpose of exercising the sentence of forfeiture of property. We, as many of you know, have the opportunity to either secure the entire property, which, of course, is a unnecessarily massive invasive measure or nothing. Similarly to legal persons, the provision of assets for the purpose of carrying out a cash penalty. This is the only property penalty for which the detention institute is not regulated. I could go on like this. Following the example of foreign legislation, it is also a new possibility of the compulsory forfeiture of property acquired by or as a reward for criminal activity and cannot be returned to the injured. We think that, in this respect, the principle that everything obtained by a criminal offence should be exhausted would also be subject to a legislative adjustment. There are many laws that are changing in connection with this government proposal. I assume you've had the opportunity to get to know some of them more or less by your professional orientation. But in any case, I've tried to draw the point here. It is an improvement in the present unsatisfactory state, which does not allow us to return the assets secured to the injured or to fail in favour of the State. Thank you for your attention and, of course, I will welcome your comments or proposals, and I hope that you will also support this proposal with a vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-005-055.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Chvojka, to take the floor. However, given that this is a first reading, we will need to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur, because a member of the Organising Committee, Mr Marek Benda, who has apologized for today's negotiations, has been approved. He's on a foreign business trip. [[Voice from the right off the microphone.]] Thank you for the clarification. However, it is important that we vote on the amendment of the rapporteur, which will become Mr Chvojka. I will begin the vote and ask who is the rapporteur for the first reading to change, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Members present are 126, in favour of proposal 83. [[From the board against no one.]] The motion was accepted. I will therefore ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-005-055.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm such a substitute MP today. I have already replaced my colleague Pleticha, now my colleague Benda. I won't be long. I know that my colleague, Benda, would certainly thank the Minister for presenting the bill here, for presenting him in such a way that the rapporteur may in principle no longer have to complement anything. And now I say for myself, and not for Marek Benda, that I support this press to go through the second reading of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-005-055.u5	I thank you and ask you to take the rapporteur's place. I am opening a general debate. I do not see one entered into the general debate or with a factual remark. Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-005-055.u6	I have a point of fact. I have a specific question about paragraph six, where it is said that today, when dealing with property, the police authority needs the approval of the state's attorney under applicable law. It's designed to launch. An argument that is in the explanatory memorandum that it is because the prosecutor, if I say so in a simple way, takes them a long time. I don't know if that's the right reason if that's the happiest thing to do. Of course, we do not want to make it difficult for us, however, or personally it seems to me that supervision is quite good there. He's being dismissed from the bill, so if the only reason is that the prosecutors are taking too long, because that's all I found in the explanatory memorandum, or there are other reasons. In general, I think it's a good thing there's a state's attorney's oversight. I'm sorry if I didn't give you the exact terminology, but I'm neither a member nor a member of the IDA, and I'm not fully committed to those laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-005-055.u7	Thank you. Madam Secretary is coming forward, so I'm going to ask you to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-005-055.u8	Thank you. By your means, Mr Vice-President, there is nothing to apologize for, because she here and the legal terminology are not so important, rather the answer to your clearly formulated question. This is the result of the evaluation of the application practice, where the prosecutors themselves say that they have other options under supervision and that in this case there is no need to wait for their consent. I am based on what was written in the opinion I received and which I respected in the finalisation of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-005-055.u9	Thank you. No one else is reporting to the general debate, in which case I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and rapporteur if you want to take the final floor. [[No.]] The final word won't be. Since there has been no proposal to return or to refuse, we will vote on the proposals on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I am asking if anyone else has a proposal. It's not like that. Okay. We will take the vote. First, I will read the resolution, and that is, who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 171, the Members present are 126, in favour of proposal 101. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for consideration by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I conclude on this point. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
