ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-005-051.u1	51. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China Hong Kong on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings (Hong Kong, 4. 3. 2013) /house print 102/ - second reading I ask the Minister of Justice Helena Válková to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-005-051.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have also recently defended this proposal and represented not only here but on the floor of the Senate. So let me draw attention to the fact that all the following three proposals will be identically and formally and will differ only by the fact that, in that first case - we must, of course, vote separately - this is an agreement between the Czech Republic and, as has been said here, the Special Administrative Area of the People's Republic of China, or, of course, not the People's Republic of China, on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings signed in Hong Kong on 4 March 2013. So far, no such bilateral agreement has been concluded. This will extend the contractual basis for this area. It is very much in favour of the Czech Republic. There is a much better, smoother and faster way of handing over people who are suspected of committing a crime. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The notification shall always be made of the agreement in question. It will include a list of offences for which the transfer may be authorised under the law of the Czech Republic. There is always a condition that there must be criminal offences for which a sentence of imprisonment or other form of deprivation of liberty can be imposed for at least one year, or no complete battery. If the law of both countries permits this. The agreement on the transfer of persons allows the refusal to issue their own nationals, so we do not have to worry about any extradition of Czech citizens to Hong Kong. Of course, if Hong Kong did not provide sufficient assurance that the death penalty would not be imposed or executed in the event of extradition, the Czech Republic could refuse the extradition - and should reject it. That agreement also allows the person to pass on items that may serve as evidence in criminal proceedings, event. have been acquired in connection with the committed or investigated criminal activity. The agreement on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings is a modern international treaty. Apart from all the standard measures and requirements, it also complies with the principle of specialty. Allows preliminary binding, allows you to request additional information. The scope is given by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, the escorts will be implemented into the Czech Republic under the law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters Police of the Czech Republic. It will be covered by financial claims from the chapters of both ministries, but we have them budgeted, so it will not mean any increased entitlement to the state budget. Thank you for your attention and please give a kind positive assessment of this proposal through a beneficial agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-005-051.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And now I ask the foreign committee rapporteur, Mr René Číp, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 102/1. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-005-051.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, the Foreign Committee discussed the agreement at its 9th meeting and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and Hong Kong's Special Administrative Area on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings." Thank you. [[Hong Kong, 4. 3. 2013]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-12-ps2013-010-03-005-051.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. At this point, I'm not registering anyone who's logged in. That's right. In that case, I am terminating the debate. I have an application to check you out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to re-enter the system. Thank you. We will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution is that the Treaty of Deputies gives its consent to ratification. I am opening the vote and asking you who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with vote number 59. There are 108 Members present, 106 for them, none against them. So the motion for a resolution has been agreed. That concludes the discussion of paragraph 51. [[11.50 hours]] Initiating item discussion
