ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u1	30. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and organised crime, signed on 12 September 2013 in Sarajevo/the House Press 63/ - second reading Before the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec takes the floor, I will ask Mr Pavel Holík, who is the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u2	Thank you, Mr President, nice evening, ladies and gentlemen. The purpose of the contract is to provide the police and customs authorities of both States with the necessary legal framework for effective cooperation in the fight against all forms of crime, to lay down the basic rules for their direct contacts and the principles for the management of the information transmitted. At present, cooperation between the Czech and Bosnian actors is not regulated at a bilateral level. The Western Balkans region is very important in terms of the needs of the authorities responsible for combating crime and the negotiation of police cooperation agreements with the countries of the region has been a priority of the Ministry of Interior in the international contractual area in recent years. As a standard, the Treaty contains a demonstrative definition of the scope and forms of cooperation, the basis being the exchange of information. It also regulates e.g. the possibility of transmitting police liaison officers and cooperation in the field of training and education. The contract shall specify the authorities responsible for its implementation, regulate the formalities and handling of the request for cooperation or the conditions for the transfer and protection of personal data and classified information. In the area of information exchange, the Treaty reflects the fact that the Czech Republic is part of the Schengen security area. Therefore, an important adjustment was introduced by the Czech Party - facilitating the sharing of information transmitted by the Bosnia and Herzegovinan Party and other Member States of the European Union, respectively. Member States within the Schengen area. Thank you for your attention and I am very much looking forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanc and ask the rapporteur, Mr Pavel Holík, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered to you as House Press 63/1. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to present the Foreign Committee resolution of the 7th meeting of 4 March 2014. The Foreign Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and organised crime, signed in Sarajevo on 12 September 2013. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate. I'm saying I don't have a written application for it. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. And do I see Mr. Pražák's factual comment? No, okay. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, we have an extremely serious international treaty of the presidential type, which interferes with the area of criminal law. And here, so that we can remember, it is essential for us to be able to deal with this treaty responsibly, the question of the right to judicial and other legal protection of a citizen of the Czech Republic under Article 37 of the Charter. First, Article 37 of the Charter states that everyone has the right to refuse to testify if he would put him in danger of prosecuting himself or his loved one. I'm wondering how many of us haven't heard that sentence when we gave an explanation. There won't be many of us around here anymore. Everyone has the right to legal assistance in proceedings before the courts, other public authorities or public authorities since the beginning of the procedure. It is important to note that all participants are equal in the proceedings. And here, please beware, Mr Korte. Article 37 of the Charter states that those who declare that they do not control the language of the hearing have the right to an interpreter. It means it's his will, not that someone else is telling him he's not in control. He has to say he doesn't. So it is somewhat different here than in the case of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Article 37 partially adopts the principles set out in Article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In paragraph 1, he shall give each person, under certain conditions, or for certain reasons, the right to refuse notice. The same law gives Article 40 (4) to the accused. Both provisions overlap, namely that Article 40 (4) is a so-called lex specialis in relation to Article 37. For Mr Hájek, I would like to add, at his request, that this is simply a special regulation. The right to refuse to testify must be distinguished from the prohibition on interrogation or dismissal for reasons of preservation or not disclosure under the law of classified information. These cases are regulated by laws and, respectively, by legal provisions specific to them. The right to refuse to testify is the one who has an obligation to testify. This obligation is foreseen in Article 37 - but beware, it is important to note that, although Article 37 assumes this obligation, it does not impose it itself. Anyone who has no legal obligation to testify may refuse to testify for any reason or for no reason, simply says in accordance with Article 2 (3): I will not testify. [[Jakubčík brings a large bottle of mineral water to the speaker, causing laughter in the hall.]] I'm afraid you're overestimating me. That's very kind of you, but that's nothing to do with growth, Mr. Ambassador. Therefore, it is not decisive in what procedural position someone is to give a statement, or from whom or, respectively, to whom he is to give it. The important thing is that he has a legal obligation to file it. This obligation may be imposed only on the basis of the law within its limits, subject to the other conditions laid down in Article 4. [[It's busy in the hall.]] In Article 37, paragraph 1, procedural provisions relating to the duty of a witness, i.e. the duty to testify as a witness, or the right to refuse such a statement. Although these provisions are essentially consistent, they are not entirely consistent with them. The question therefore arises as to whether Article 37 (1) applies directly. I think that being able to answer this question is absolutely crucial for us to be able to assess whether, with a clear conscience, we can vote in favour of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Bulgaria. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I say again, the question is - sorry, I'm sorry, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The question is whether Article 37 (1) applies directly. The fact that it is not listed in Article 41 (1) shows that, despite the unreliability of Article 41, paragraph 1
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u7	Mr President, I will interrupt you for a moment, and I will ask other colleagues, especially from your political side and from the ODS, to let you finish in peace. I wanted to lead you to the point when you talked about Bulgaria, but you fixed yourself, so thank you, you can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u8	I'm sorry I misjudged you, but it's not that far apart. [[Laughs in the hall.]] The question therefore arises as to whether Article 37 (1) applies directly. The fact that it is not listed in Article 41 (1) shows that, despite the unreliability of Article 41 (1), it is directly applicable. It follows from the fact that Article 37 (1) contains a standard of legal force higher than that of procedural law, if you want procedural rules, that the person who is required to testify for (a) may refuse to testify directly under Article 37, paragraph 1, even if the procedural standard does not give him such a right or if it is questionable whether it gives it to him or not, and even if such procedural standards are not such. Or (b) he may refuse to testify whenever he is entitled to the relevant procedural standard, even if this right is not expressly enshrined in Article 37 (1). Therefore, the conclusion ad (a) results from the fact that Article 37 (1) contains a legal standard of higher legal force, whereas the conclusion under point (b) follows from the fact that procedural legislation is leges speciales in relation to paragraph 1. Again for Mr Hájek, it is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u9	Please, Mr President, just address your colleagues through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u10	But he is not here, Mr President, and I support his specific wish, which he said whenever we say something in Latin, that we should try to translate it. I'm trying. [[Fun in the hall.]] The danger of prosecution means Article 37 (1) in particular the danger of criminal prosecution. This danger is due to the refusal of a statement if it threatens the person who is obliged to testify, that is, in particular, the witness, the witness, or the person close to him. However, the general wording of Article 37, paragraph 1, does not exclude the interpretation that criminal proceedings could also be understood as administrative proceedings. [[21.50 hours]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 is, however, not only a risk that the prosecution against the witness or his loved one would be initiated as a result of the testimony, but at all a risk that the testimony might be against the witness, respectively. against the person close to him, used in criminal proceedings against one of them already initiated. It is therefore a danger of prosecution of a threat, but also of a danger of deterioration in the criminal proceedings already under way. Whether the refusal of a statement is justified shall be decided by the court or by the court. the authority before which the statement was to be submitted and rejected. The question is, however, how does the court know that a witness or a person close to him is in danger? The bill doesn't say a word about it! [[Time out. Laughter.]] And the procedural rules aren't talking about it! The answer must be found in the interpretation. For the purposes of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the following definitions shall apply: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 It follows that the Court must not find that danger so that the facts on which that danger is based would come to light, i.e. in particular, the existence of such a danger shall not require or carry out evidence. It practically means that the court will generally refer to the fact that a witness claims that there is such a danger. However, it is not excluded that the Court of First Instance has refused to give notice on the grounds of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 does not acknowledge, if it is obvious that the witness or the person close to him cannot be in any danger of testifying, and therefore the refusal of the statement is clearly unfounded. If the facts of such a danger arise, justifying the process by other means of evidence, i.e. because of other evidence in the case itself, a witness who is at risk of such a danger cannot refuse a statement for this reason, but it would be a statement that could be used against him in criminal proceedings threatening or already initiated, virtually. any deterioration of his procedural position or procedural position of his person close to him. Article 37 (1) (a) 1 does not define the concept of a loved one. If the competent authority applies Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, it shall inform the competent authority accordingly. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 directly, it would have to be able to decide whether a person is close by interpreting, offering an analogy under Section 116 of the Civil Law, or according to the circumstances under Section 89 (1) of the Civil Code. 7 of the Criminal Code. However, the concept of a close person does not define the civil order and apparently understands a person close within the meaning of Section 116 of the Civil Code. The legal reference defines a person close to § 35 para. 3 of the Administrative Code, which explicitly refers to the Civil Code in this case, means that persons close to them understand the persons referred to in Section 116 of the Civil Code. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] More complicated is the situation in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which in § 100 para. 2 in which he gives the witness the right to refuse to testify, he does not refer to the persons close to him, but gives a list of persons whose threat the witness may refuse to testify. However, the legal application of the concept close to the person submits § 89 para. 7 of the criminal law, where the list of persons close to it is not the same as the list of persons in § 100 para. 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In civil and administrative proceedings, therefore, persons close to them are those listed in Section 116 of the Civil Code. The criminal proceedings do not know the concept of a loved one and § 89 para. 7 in the light of the specific list referred to in Section 100 (1) (a) above, 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be applied. However, it cannot be ruled out that a witness in criminal proceedings which does not fall within the scope of the persons referred to in Section 100 (1) (b) of the Convention is not a witness in criminal proceedings. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1. The court would then, according to the circumstances of the case, decide whether or not it is obliged to testify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u11	Mr President, I will interrupt you again and ask colleagues on the left this time to let you make your argument in peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u12	Oh, I wish it were only my argument, Mr President, but unfortunately this is - or, thankfully, it is an argument of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. That's why it's so important that we hear it. From the point of view of criminal proceedings, the testimony of the witness is one of the so-called Evidence, the witness being a physical person different from the accused, summoned by the law enforcement authority to state all the known facts that she perceived with her senses and which are relevant to the decision in criminal matters. Unreasonable refusal of a statement may be sanctioned by a fine of order. There is no dispute, however, that a witness could inevitably get into a serious conflict with his conscience, if he has any, when his truthful testimony could convict a loved one or himself or a loved one. In accordance with the provisions of § 37 para. Article 1 (1) of the Charter therefore provides for the provisions of Section 100 (1) of the Charter. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure gives the right to refuse to testify as a witness to a relative of the accused in a direct generation, his siblings, the adopter, the adopter, the husband and the mate, and the potential. A mate. However, if the accused are more and the witness is only in relation to one of them, he has the right to deny the testimony of the parties to the other accused only if the statement relating to them cannot be separated from the statement relating to the defendant to whom the witness is in this relationship. According to Article 100 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of the criminal order is also entitled to refuse to testify if the testimony would create a risk of criminal prosecution for himself, his relative in a direct generation, his sibling, the adopter, the adopter, the spouse or the species, the spouse and other persons in a family or similar relationship whose harm he would rightly feel as his own. As a result, Article 4 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation provides for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Charter works with the concept of a person close to it, the criminal order of the circle of persons in respect of whom the defendant is entitled to refuse to give notice, and specifies their particular legal or factual position towards him, both subjective but legitimate perception of the injury of those persons as self-inflicted injury. For reasons other than those set out in the cited provision of the Penal Code... [[To Minister Chovanc:]] Have I offended you in any way, Minister? [[Minister Chovanec reports that he gestured towards the gallery for guests.]] Aha!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u13	Mr. Chairman, you may speak calmly. The Minister is dealing with another matter at the moment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u14	For reasons other than those mentioned in the cited provision of the Criminal Code, the witness cannot deny testimony. Thus, he cannot refuse to testify, for example, because he or his loved ones could cause property damage or shame. Right of persons referred to in § 100 para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to refuse to testify shall apply to the statement as a whole. In the cases referred to in Section 100, point (b) is replaced by the following: In principle, the witness must and may refuse to testify only to the extent that there is the possibility of causing the legally alleged danger to the persons mentioned here. Permission to refuse notice shall be decided by the criminal proceedings authority which has summoned or interrogated the witness. If the witness does not recognise this authorisation, the witness shall be obliged to testify and may be used against him by means of enforcement laid down by the Code of Criminal Procedure in Section 66. As a general rule, he cannot refuse to testify as a witness pursuant to § 100 para. 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, who has the parties to the crime to which the testimony relates, so-called. reporting obligations under criminal law, unless there is an obligation to testify under this state of law. However, such exemption from the right to refuse to testify does not give the Charter itself authorisation. [[2.00 hours]] So much for that, my colleagues, my colleagues. Article 37 which, in my opinion, is crucial for the assessment of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 2 which is somewhat more extensive, in my view, is much more concerned with the agreement between the Czech Republic and Israel, which is why I would like to present it under point 31. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u15	Thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. I am just sorry that, Mr President, you did not begin with Article 8 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, respectively. Charters. We, as technically educated lawyers, will forgive you for that. Because that would be even more fundamental. I now have a factual remark from the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u16	Thank you for the floor. Have a good evening. So I wonder in vain what this type of debate, this type of our work, brings to the Czech Republic, its citizens. If the fact that it takes us so long to approve one contract at a second reading is effective work at all. And my point is, maybe we're a little more tired than we need to be doing precise work. But I want the Chamber of Deputies to do their job, and the position or position that we need to discuss and discuss in the parliamentary club, we also want to have as precise as possible, because it is customary that things which are factually well thought out, well worked out, are coming out of the KSČM Members' Club for a period of two hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-13-ps2013-008-05-005-030.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this case, given the result of the vote we had this afternoon on today's negotiating day, I am declaring a break for the meeting of the KSČM club. At the same time, I have nothing else to do because the break would end after midnight and was approved by midnight rather than interrupt the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. And since no other time was approved than starting at 9:00 p.m., look forward to meeting you at 9:00 p.m. tomorrow. I wish you a good evening, a good night, and tomorrow we will continue with item number 30, unless, of course, we agree on another agenda between 9:30 and 9:30.
