ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-001-026.u1	26. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the amendment of Annex A to the Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants/German press 109/ - first reading The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please take the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Before you take your word for it, Minister, I'll ask my colleagues to keep their voices down... Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-001-026.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honor for me to begin today's meeting with such a thrilling subject as persistent organic pollutants. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] So let me present the Government's proposal to agree to ratify the amendment to Annex A to the Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants. The Czech Republic has been a Contracting Party to the Convention since 17 May 2004. The sixth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Stockholm Convention, held on 28 April to 10 May last year in Geneva, adopted a decision on the inclusion of a new substance - so I learned this last night for a few minutes - hexabromocyclododecane and its isomers in Annex A to the Stockholm Convention. At the same time, the decision contains the possibility to register a special exception for the production and use of this substance in expanded and extruded polystyrene in buildings. Annex A to the Stockholm Convention includes substances intended for total exclusion or removal from production, use, import and export. Following the entry into force of the amendment to Annex A, the Convention will regulate the handling of 23 chemicals in total. In 2011, this substance was included in Annex XIV to the REACH European Regulation and from August 2015 its use, production and marketing will be subject to the so-called REACH authorisation. Pursuant to the Stockholm Convention, it will be possible for the European Union and its Member States to register an exemption from the amendment adopted by that date. And concerning this substance, so that there is no conflict between the obligations arising from this change and the legislation of the European Union. In the Czech Republic, HBCDD - this is the substance I have not been able to pronounce - produces and uses as an additive flame retardant in insulation materials in the construction industry. The Czech Republic will therefore register a special exception in accordance with the conference decision and in accordance with the legislation of the European Union. The task of ensuring registration of the Czech Republic's derogation to the amendment adopted in Annex A is set out in the Government Resolution adopted on 8 January 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-001-026.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Robert Böhnisch. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-001-026.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. The memorials in this House will surely remember that this substance, i.e. hexabromocyclododecane, has already been dealt with in connection with the adaptation of REACH, now this substance, this flame retardant, is returning to us in the form of inclusion in Annex A to the Stockholm Convention. The Minister said everything essential about the process of including this substance in the list as well as the substance's nature. I will only add that as far as the Senate is concerned, the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment of the Senate of the Czech Parliament has already discussed this proposal and expressed its approval. I, too, suggest that the press proceed to second reading and order it to the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-001-026.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate that I have no application for. I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Against? I'm done with the vote. It's vote number 44. For 131 Members, against 1. [[from 152 logged in]] The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. The next point we're going to be dealing with is point number
