ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u1	17. Kateřina Konečná, Karel Šidl and Václav Snopek's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (the Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended, and Act No. 239/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended /German press 118/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 It is proposed that we give our consent to the bill in the first reading. You have received the Government's position as House Press 118/1. I now ask that Mrs Kateřina Konečná present the proposal for the appellants. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, there's still Pinocchio here, I don't know who it belonged to, but I'm saying this so someone here doesn't forget him in the evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u3	Please don't touch Pinocchio. Then we'll remove him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your helpfulness that we will be discussing today's first reading of the bill, which has been in this Chamber of Deputies for quite a long time. We want to resolve a situation that we believe is such that if today the Czech insurer's office sends a call to any person for payment of the allowance for the period during which the vehicle was allegedly operated in violation of the law, this person has an obligation to prove that the vehicle was not operating or operated at all, or that it is not the owner of the vehicle. This fact could be demonstrated by extracting data from the road vehicle register, but the possibility of obtaining this extract is quite problematic today, as there is an urgent legal interest to be shown. If the person does not prove that interest, the extract from the register shall not be provided to him. In practice, however, I note the case where a person received this statement, sent it to the office, and it did not take it into account despite this fact and nevertheless measured the amount owed to the person concerned. The office responded to the e-mail message by not registering the proof of the vehicle's registration and extract, although the gentleman concerned had a copy of the e-mail communication with the office. Such a case can certainly be described as being due to a former owner who has duly fulfilled all the obligations relating to insurance and vehicle registration. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] However, this case only refers to a former owner who is no longer registered. However, the office normally sends former owners who, for example, have sold the car and have not been deleted from the register, as this registration obligation is new to the owner. The office will request data from the Ministry, which was most likely converted into this summer, because in this Ministry of Transport really after a very long time it began to take place twice a month. The data were non-current and was derived from data which certainly did not correspond to the current state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u5	Excuse me, Madam. I'm sorry. I understand that it is late hours and today everyone in today's meeting is exhausted, but I am asking you at this last point for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u6	In such a case, a statement from the register will not be sufficient. Moreover, the new owner does not have to register the vehicle unless it intends to operate the vehicle. In such a case, of course, there could be sufficient proof of the purchase contract, which none of the parties need, since we have the freedom to conclude contracts for the sale of movable items. We are thus in an absurd situation where the vehicle has its owner, who does not operate the vehicle, does not register it, but the insurer's office requires payment of a contribution to a person who is still registered, although he is no longer the owner, has lost all rights to the vehicle, and this person has no chance of proving to the office that he is not obliged to pay. And here, in our opinion, there's no doubt that there's a change in place. [[The noise in the room won't stop!]] As regards the change, which introduces a three-year time limit for the recovery period, it aims primarily at protecting the weaker party and avoiding the possibility of so-called maturity of claims, as is common practice today. In accordance with the principles of protection of the weaker party, the pre-slip period seemed more appropriate than the limitation period, since in the event of limitation, limitation must be denied in the dispute of limitation, whereas in the case of pre-slip, it is the expiry of the law itself, so it is more appropriate in terms of the protection of the weaker party. If the Office sends a call to the deemed or actual debtor and no longer takes care of his claim and does not bring the case to trial, after three years the right to recover the claim shall cease. However, the office must also send the call within two months of the date on which it became aware of the infringement. If it does not do so, the right to recovery shall expire by the expiry of this two-month period. This will force the office to take care of its claims and, to some extent, it is also a way to prevent the said maturity of claims. The second point in this amendment is aimed at two adjustments. The first concerns a comparison of data on the obligation to obtain complete and relevant information before the office even starts recovering the claim. I note from practice the case where a lady who had never owned the vehicle was served, and yet the office sent her calls for a contribution to three vehicles and the objection that she had never been the owner of the vehicle, it was said that this was irrelevant since the call had already been sent. An impenetrable situation that, according to today's adjustment, is not an escape. The very determination of the obligation and enforcement of the contribution by the offices themselves should not have a place in our legal order, since it is a private entity. Regardless of the fact that such an adjustment basically allows you to circumvent the principles of the right to a fair trial, because often even a non-member in fear of executors pays the contribution despite the fact that he was not required to pay. [[The President is ringing because the noise in the hall doesn't stop.]] For this reason, the amendment is designed in such a way that it is finally possible to defend itself against the call of the insurer's office and, above all, that the office itself has an obligation to provide evidence that the defendant is resisting, to take it into account and, in the event of disagreement, not to remove it from the table, as it is today, but to turn its claim to legal proceedings and thus allow the debtor to participate in a fair trial. A declaration of honour is proposed by the amendment for sufficient evidence, which will result in no obligation to pay the contribution at all. In order to ensure that the Office is not completely prevented from requesting payment of the contribution, it will continue to be able, if it considers that the defendant does not act honestly and violates his obligation, to send him a written statement that he insists on the payment and to initiate verification of the documents sent. The office will not review the statement of honor. Here he will have the opportunity to turn to the civil court. The third point of this law complements the Law on the situation in which the person concerned was incurred because of proof that he was not a debtor, the costs effectively incurred. If the person has been wrongly invited to pay the allowance and proves the costs incurred together with the fact that he is not the debtor, the Office shall have a legal obligation to pay the costs to that person. The Office will be entitled to claim payment of these costs by the entity that provided information leading to an unjustified call for payment of the contribution. Dear colleagues, I have introduced you to the individual points of the amendment, which I believe is very important. No doubt you are also in your families, because I do not know a person who would not meet the activities of the Czech insurer's office, they have encountered the way in which this private and uncontrolled entity is proceeding towards the citizens of our country. I think it is time for us to straighten things out in this matter, and although I thank the Ministry of Transport for what has been done in the case of the Central Register, where data should actually be updated, it is not a solution for a number of disputes, when the Czech insurer's office really does not, in any way, verify the owner of the vehicle, enforces its fees and demands, for example, from a person long gone. It's just a fact that's happening in our country, and I think we should fix this whole thing. I understand that most likely the veto will fall on Section 90. It was as ambitious of us as the petitioners, because we simply thought it was important to resolve this matter very quickly in order to avoid further bullying of citizens. If this proposal falls, then I would like to ask you to shorten the deadline and at the same time to support you, because this is not about politics, the point is that either we leave the citizens in harm's way because of some private entity or we simply try to help them. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u7	Thank you, Mrs. plaintiff. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u8	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. As the petitioner, I would like to say that the issue of vehicle liability insurance is perceived as serious and we believe that a complete change of legislation is necessary. I appreciate the work done by Mrs Konečný and also the fact that she has highlighted this subject that we should be dealing with, but we should nevertheless make a really comprehensive change to legislation, because there are much more problems with vehicle insurance, and I would therefore prefer a government proposal for a solution. I would therefore propose rejecting this proposal, this amendment at first reading, and preparing a comprehensive amendment to legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u9	Sorry, rapporteur. I understand you're suggesting - there was no veto on Section 90, should we approve it at one reading? Didn't the veto sound from two MPs on Section 90? So first, we're going to have to deal with this, then, eventually, on a motion to reject it at first reading. I am therefore opening a general debate in which the President of the TOP 09 and Mayor Mr Kalousek report with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u10	I wanted to join the rapporteur's opinion. We will all vote for rejection. I just think that the change that the rapporteur is calling for should not only be complex but also systemic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u11	Thank you. Another duly registered member is Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I see Pinocchio nose is still short, so no one here is lying, it's good. So maybe a few words for that purpose. Of course, I fully agree with that intention, because it is a real problem. But on the other hand, I've said here several times that good intentions can also lead somewhere completely different from what we think. Unfortunately, I think it is precisely the problem of the bill's proposal. I would read you something here to realize this: The Government is aware of the problematic aspects of the regulation of liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle, where the breach of the public obligation to operate on the road only a vehicle to which liability insurance is agreed is sanctioned essentially by private legal sanctions in the form of a contribution to the guarantee fund enforced by the Czech insurer's office, which is a professional organisation of persons entitled to provide liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle in the Czech Republic. However, etc. - that the adjustment is nonsystemic and other things to do with it. And then there are six points why the government doesn't agree. Pretty significant points, pretty much written down in detail. And I would like to say from this point of view, if the government does not agree and is aware, so let the government act, do and submit the bill to us for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u13	I thank Mr Adamc. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. With priority rights, the President of the Social Democracy Parliamentary Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u14	I dare to object on behalf of two parliamentary clubs - social democracy and the ANO 2011 movement - to the proceedings pursuant to § 90 para. 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take this objection into account. Another duly signed is the appellant, Mrs Konečná. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u16	Thank you. Since the rapporteur did not exactly draw attention to the Government's position, I did not want to delay you. But I guess I'm gonna have to. Because I don't agree with you, colleague, this time. I think that the government has been quite sloppy about this proposal and that it was rather looking for reasons why something could not be done rather than for it to be possible. And since we've consulted the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport on this whole proposal, believe me, I'm surprised how it turned out, even though I understand that maybe the problem is that it's the opposition proposal. And as for when you say that it wants a systemic change and it wants a complex change, I ask where thousands of people are to be turned, who are wrongly thrown into various execution proceedings, because they simply cannot today defend themselves according to the law that you presented here in 2009, which was unsystemic and did not give the ordinary citizen any hope at all that I would notice, virtually. found any support within the private entity. And now for the argument. That the situation regarding access to data from the road vehicle register is addressed by § 5 para. Although it is commendable, as amended by the 2013 Act, which is intended to take effect on 1 January 2015, it does not solve the problem that the recovery of claims to the Guarantee Fund is in itself an absolutely unsystemic solution, when a hybrid entity of a private nature imposes an obligation without any prior administrative or judicial process, i.e. without guaranteeing the right to a fair trial, which guarantees Article 36 and 38 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Office is neither a court nor an administrative authority and should therefore not substitute for proper judicial or administrative proceedings. The call for a contribution should never have served as an instrument replacing or circumventing sound judicial and administrative procedures. The government criticizes our proposal as unsystemic, but the adjustment itself and the current solution is simply nonsystemic. There is no way that in a legal state - and all of you, or we all think that we are still living in it - the powers that belong only to the courts or other public authorities belong to a private organization. The issue of the present solution is that even if the alleged debtor himself resists the call and payment of the contribution by judicial means, these appeals are not properly investigated by the courts, there is no detailed evidence, the call is often taken as sufficient evidence that a person owes, and it is only the court that the obligation is to be fulfilled. The Constitutional Court also pointed out this alarming fact four weeks ago when it stated that the judiciary was treating similar cases in a very different way, for example as regards the extent of the evidence. The Constitutional Court has received a number of complaints about this. I quote: Conflicts in decision-making practice have been identified by the Constitutional Court even in various judges of the same general court. The Court's legal conclusion that the complainant's vehicle was operated was not supported by the evidence carried out and is therefore extreme enough to have the effect of interfering with the complainant's right to a fair trial. From the very fact that the vehicle is kept in the register, it is possible to import that the vehicle is operated and, as a rule, this will be the case, however, only in a situation where the owner will not subsequently prove otherwise. Thus, the current miserable situation is declared unbearable by the Constitutional Court. The government claims they're dealing with the registry situation. It even deals with amendments, but no change in the register will change anything to a situation where the claim is not and will not be dealt with in a standard contested adversarial proceedings before a court or administrative authority. The Government notes in its opinion on the proposal that effective legislation obliges the Czech insurer's office to find out all relevant information before sending a call for payment, but on hundreds of cases it can be demonstrated that this is not the case that the office itself has no interest in properly verifying the situation, its powers and exceptional unprecedented status is abused, and so it is only on its part and on the part of the law and government only a declaration without any legal relevance. So there may be two solutions. Accept our proposed amendment as a temporary and subsequently another amendment, which, for example, the government, will subject the recovery process to, for example, standard administrative procedures. My proposal would have gained only the time needed to prepare the amendment, while avoiding unprecedented damage to citizens' rights, which had already been displeased by the Constitutional Court. Or to remain in the current state, to leave the citizens at their mercy because of a private entity that is not even an authority of the state, and to wait for mere amendments to registers to produce fruit at some point in 2015. Furthermore, the Government argues that the draft law makes completely inappropriate use of the Institute of Honorary Declaration, which is to be regarded as proof that the obligation to operate only vehicles with agreed insurance on the road has not been infringed, and introduces a fiction of the truthfulness of this declaration of honour, in which this institute does not effectively negate the entire adjustment of the payment of the contribution, since if the declaration of honour were to be regarded as proof of the absence of an obligation to pay the contribution, the contribution in its application would in fact become completely unenforceable. Even in the case of legal proceedings. The government is right that this is a slightly non-standard use of the Institute of Honorary Declaration. However, it should be noted that, overall, we are in a non-standard situation where we are not in judicial or administrative proceedings, and yet there is a determination of the obligation. In this case, therefore, given that the claim is only going through a kind of a sluggish verification by the entity which itself enforces it, the situation should only be balanced in favour of the served entity, within the procedural principle of equality of arms. [[20.20 hours]] If the ČKP has the above-standard power to decide itself, to verify itself and to enforce its own claims against other persons, these persons must be equipped in the legal state with a tool to stand up for this. It should be said that, in the order procedure in court, the applicant's claim is also not examined and a payment order is issued directly, but the defendant's situation is offset against the applicant by the possibility of a complete amendment of the order by opposition. If the defendant submits opposition, the court shall issue a payment order, amend and order the proper conduct. Thus, if the ČKP issues today a call for reimbursement, which it itself examines, which becomes due and almost then unverifiable without examining its conclusions without examining any independent body, it is necessary that the entity sent should have an instrument to cancel the call without having its claim re-examined by the same body that has decided on its obligations. After all, this is an absurd situation where ČKP sets an obligation and at the same time decides all objections allegedly compulsory! This is a pasculi for a fair trial. Therefore, a solution was chosen with the help of an honest statement as a reflection of opposition in court proceedings. We are aware that this solution is not ideal, but others in the current situation do not make sense and it is only a logical conclusion of the current adjustment. If the proposed concept does not appear to the government, I call on the Government to transfer the recovery process into a classic administrative or judicial procedure and to claim its claims as any other private, public or foreign entity. If the government claims that the Institute of Honorary Declaration would make it impossible for the Czech Republic to obtain its claim, this is a pure demagogy and an absolute legal misunderstanding of the issue. In the event of the cancellation of the call, the CNP would only be entitled to standard proceedings, as any other entity, where it would demonstrate its right with the help of proper evidence. If the government is in conflict with the formulational uncertainties of the newly introduced deadlines, it should be noted that this is not something that could not easily be resolved by interpretation within the application practice and, therefore, if the deadlines are really so unclear, it is certainly possible to adjust them slightly within the second reading amendments. And the government's argument that it is not clear what the concept of governance means in the context of transitional provisions cannot be meant even seriously and makes me wonder if anyone in the government has read the proposal at all. It is extremely clear that the legislator himself realizes that the recovery process of ČKP's claims is not a procedure. Thus, by means of proceedings, the legislature is merely referring to the standard importance attached to it by legal practice, i.e. either judicial and enforcement proceedings or administrative proceedings. Here, the government probably no longer knows what to say about the proposal, so it decreases to an argument that offends anyone, at least a little bit, by law. If the proposal is to prevent the current practice of the Czech insurer's office, it is absolutely clear that it excludes any further procedure of the ČKP according to the old regulation. If the legislature would allow a similar execution of the enforcement process by means of calls, it would deny its claims and what it wants to prove by the amendment. Thus, the transitional provision aims only and only at the date of the amendment initiated by judicial or enforcement proceedings, or administrative proceedings, and therefore not to some quasi-management initiated by ČKP with alleged debtors. Their submission, which the legislature considers only to be proceedings in its true meaning, because they do not comply with the standards of administrative or judicial proceedings even at the basic level. I could go on like this. What the government has written, forgive me, colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me that it has been written by someone who has been sitting behind a desk, perhaps for several years, and maybe has not been out and in practice for quite a while. I also believe, according to the Minister of Transport, that he considers this a problem, that he means it, and that there is a reason for us to move this amendment to second reading, modify it, we do not resist it, but prevent what I was talking about. You just leave these people the way they are without it, and believe me, those cases are really, really tragic, and believe me, we did this the wrong way to prepare the last law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u17	Thank you, Mistress Konečná. Mr. President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura is also entered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u18	The appellant was extremely brief. I don't know if I can do the same. I may be a little longer, but that's kind of personal. I'm having a weird day. I once agreed with Lubomír Zaorálk, and now he won't let me agree with a KSČM MP at least on basic matters. Something's not right today. Maybe 8:00 isn't supposed to make jokes. As Prime Minister, I know very well what it is when it is said that the government coalition does not agree with the parliamentary bill, especially the opposition, because it is preparing its own, systemic, complex, better and even better solutions. I haven't forgotten. It was kind of an attempt at a joke. If it's offended the lady of the petitioner, I'm sorry. We know this very well. We know the real reasons, too. It is important to note who brought the 90's, who proposes rejection in the first reading. But from what the government is writing, I would say that the Ministry of Transport should focus on implementing the amendment that is mentioned there, for which we have given a year and a half time to prepare all the necessary system software documents. According to public information, the Minister of Transport is going to shift efficiency while arguing that this has been partially resolved in the law since 1 January 2015. So he can pay one or the other. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] I think the problem is even more complicated. Who has ever worked as mayor or mayor on so-called. the three-year municipality, so it knows that the law imposes obligations on the three-year municipalities in relation to the Czech insurer's office - and they are not small. Depends on who's gonna deal with it. We have fulfilled the letter of the law in the way of the least resistance and the least exertion of the office, because I agree that it should be enforced by those who benefit from it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u19	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. It's been signaled that Mrs. Stenographers can't do their work for the sound in the hall because they can't hear you and because your precious words might not be recorded for history, so please let us really keep our voice down. Thank you. Please, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u20	On the other hand, I want to tell my colleagues here that I never read it after myself, when someone always brings it to me printed, to check it out, it doesn't even occur to me to read my performances and say there's a word in there that's not what I said. I think I'm in charge of more pleasant things. I'll leave that up to government officials, if that's what they're interested in. Well, if you leave anything out, I'm sure I won't be upset. Don't get excited. The Minister of Transport was supposed to be here to explain why we think it's wrong. He's not here. See for yourself how many government benches are occupied. I also remember these colleagues screaming when they were in opposition, what disrespect it is that there are only two, three, four ministers, that it couldn't happen behind them. But that's not what I was gonna say. If the rapporteur proposes rejection, with the government preparing a comprehensive and better system solution, it would be fair to say when. When will he prepare whether the proposal already exists, whether an external commentary procedure has been initiated, when it should end, when it should come to the government's meeting, and then, after ten days, it could come to the meeting at first reading. I'm afraid, and I know something about the Department of Transport that if it's not written yet, we won't discuss it this year. We're in mid-May. If you know any legislative deadlines, it simply cannot be done. My opinion is that it can be fixed, that the complaints can be corrected in committees. Today, when we were able to approve an amendment in the Food Act, which had 34 points and 17 pages, I do not think that the amendment could have 17 pages and that it would be shorter. And it's about the will whether we leave something to the opposition or whether we're looking for a comprehensive solution. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u21	Thank you to President Stanjur. The next envoy is Mr. František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u22	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay long, but I will respond to the previous speaker. I don't think it's appropriate to try the rapporteur here, because this is where the Minister of Transport should sit. We will support the motion to reject it at first reading when we remember the fire lobby, when there were heartbreaking scenes happening here, even though the initiations warned that if we burden insurance companies with the obligation to transfer part of the funds to the choir, and how it turned out. Of course they took it as an excuse to raise it later. More or less, we have brought the burden back to the citizens. I think this must be sophisticatedly manufactured, and in this case, I am really leaning towards the opinion that is expressed in the government's position, even though, of course, there is a problem, but I hope Mr. Prachař will deal with it quickly. But don't try the rapporteur, I have to stand up for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u23	I thank Mr Laudát. Another duly signed up is Mr Vondráček, followed by Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers have said a lot. I also experience strange moments when I also agree on the left and right. I would really like to say for the Yes Club that we perceive the seriousness of the situation that exists. I can say for myself that I know from practice the feeling of helplessness towards the ČKP's procedure. I know from my own practice some absurd decisions by courts that are totally contradictory. When a vehicle is already scrapped and one judge decides that it is equally necessary to pay a penalty, that the vehicle was not insured, while the other judge believes that when the car is actually scrapped, it is not necessary to pay a mandatory guarantee. The situation requires correction. I am unable to evaluate for myself the extent to which it is urgent that an amendment to the law, which has been said to be temporary, is being adopted, and I am actually intercede myself for adopting a system solution, for it to be fulfilled and for all points of reference to be addressed. Even in the absence of the Minister of Transport, I dare say that this task will have priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u25	I thank Mr Vondráček. Another duly signed up is Mr Adamec, followed by Mr Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I don't know. All my previous speakers here say they agree with the opinion from the left, from the right, so do I, and I get one brush from my colleague. I don't understand. But I think it's right in the end, because every good deed will be punished for good. However, I had no idea that the government could blow away the reason message. I'm new here. It's pretty interesting information to me, but it can happen. I was also not in favour of the previous versions of this law. And I don't want to evaluate the practice, because, of course, every one of us who's converted a car through a bazaar certainly has some experience. Either with the insurer's office, or the way they treated you at the bazaar, if they told you you had to sign off on your own, if they didn't tell you, then you were terribly wrong. However, I said that when the government, and according to Mrs Dejmím, slopped away the explanatory report in this way, I think that is precisely why it should do something and do something. Because I really think that this situation is very unsustainable and something needs to be done about it. So I'm not even defending myself if this proposal goes to the committee, we're going to try to do something about it. On the other hand, I personally think that it is more sensible for the government to treat this in this way, to involve the government, the proper minister, to deal with this problem, to put forward a relevant proposal to us, and we had something to vote on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u27	I thank Mr Adamc. Mr. Černoch, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u28	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm new here, too, and I have to say, it's probably such a spell that we're going to be looking for a complex solution, a system solution. Somehow they're still not. So I'd just like to say that at dawn, we'll support it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u29	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Another duly signed is the appellant, Mrs Konečná. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u30	Thank you. It is just because our House has identified this as a budgetary committee and, in fact, how complex the legislation is, and it is actually a combination of two laws, that is another non-systemicity in our legal order, so I believe that the Ministry of Finance has a large share of responsibility for this amendment. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, by your means, whether he knows at all that he should coordinate his progress with the Ministry of Transport in any way on this matter, and whether he knows that he has this also in gesture, because the Czech insurer's office is also simply in the Ministry of Finance, respectively. The law was then prepared in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance. He even has the whole department at the Ministry for it. Only if he could tell us. I understand that you may not know now, Minister, I do not wish to embarrass you. Only if you could tell us that in a week you'll tell us if your government, your ministry, is going to do anything about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u31	Thank you, Mistress Konečná. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. When it was through me, the Minister is so kind that he will answer the lady through me. Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam, I'm taking this to task, and first thing in the morning, when I get to work, I'm gonna look for the union, and I'm gonna deal with it. I'll give you a message.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u33	I thank the Minister and wish him to find the union tomorrow morning, and I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. [[Laughing]] It's not like that. I am therefore ending the general debate. In view of the veto of the two parliamentary clubs, we will not vote in accordance with § 90 para. 5, however, I note here the proposal to reject the proposal tabled by the rapporteur, Mrs Zelienková. I will vote on this motion for rejection. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. Initiating vote on the motion to dismiss. Whoever is in favour of rejecting this bill, raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes the rejection of this bill? It is voting number 169, registered by 133 Members and Members, in favour of dismissing 46, against 41, this proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Madame Konečná. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u34	I will take the liberty, given the way I was talking about the connection between both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance, to ask whether the law could be ordered, and I do not have it discussed because there is no one - ah, here I see the chairman of the Economic Committee. I'm sorry. If we could also put this on the Economic Committee, which dealt with this agenda in the last term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u35	Thank you. So it's a proposal for an economic committee. I'm asking if anyone else has any other suggestions. prosit, Chairman Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u36	I just wanted to put in a good word for Mrs Dejná's proposal, because under the Economic Committee, or the Economic Committee, it has a geographical and cadastral office, and with its help it is better sought out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u37	Thank you, honourable Member. Is Mr. Bezecný reporting? No, it's not. Mr Vondráček, please, with a motion for a commandment to a committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u38	[[He's laughing.]] I don't think I'm gonna cheer up my colleagues, but he's a very legal problem. I would suggest ordering the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-14-ps2013-008-06-027-017.u39	I thank Mr Vondráček. Even colleagues from the Constitutional Committee are obviously grateful. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? He doesn't. We will therefore vote on the commandments of the various committees. First, then, we will vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this bill to the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 170, registered by 135 Members, for 122, against none. [[20.40 hours]] Furthermore, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the Economic Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 171, for 104 Members, against 17. This proposal has also been adopted. The last proposal is Mr Vondráček's proposal on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 172, registered 135 Members, for 64, against 20. This proposal has not been adopted. Furthermore, I have noted in the speech of the Member of the Final Proposal... I didn't, okay, thank you. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets and the Economic Committee. That concludes the first reading of this bill. That was the last point, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, today's meeting. I am interrupting the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when the written interpelations begin, and I wish you a good evening.
