ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u1	55. Current situation in Ukraine and the attitude of the Government of the Czech Republic This item was started at the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 13 February 2014. We have interrupted the negotiations before the general debate is opened. I ask that instead of the rapporteur's table, the plaintiff of this point, Commissioner Miroslava Němcová and Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek, take the floor. At the outset, I ask the appellant, whether she wishes to comment on this point. Then the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just a short time. We are now in a general debate. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that, at the beginning of the debate on this point, I have proposed some resolutions which, of course, have expired in time. The situation has evolved completely differently. At the time we started discussing this point, we registered battles that took place in Majdan Square in Kiev, Ukraine, and we also registered that some of the participants were braved, tortured and so on during the time of Viktor Janukovyč's presidency. That is what I wanted to respond to with my motion for a resolution. Since then, as we all certainly observe, many things have happened. The most important thing is that the Russian Federation has annexed part of the territory of Ukraine, i.e. Crimea, and I think there is no point in discussing the resolution that I have proposed now. That is why I have prepared resolutions that are already in line with the events that are now in progress. They concern what we will hear as information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I have watched closely both his comments after all the negotiations he has taken on international soil and the Prime Minister's observations. I think that, as a member of the Civil Democratic Party and a member of the parliamentary opposition, I can say that I have more or less agreed with the position represented by both the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister. I think they were consistent with the developments we followed. What I consider the most serious and what I think is the task of the Chamber of Deputies today is to adopt a resolution that would actually give the Government a mandate for further negotiations, in order to confirm this resolution also the the thesis that we have heard as a sub-basement from the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister that annexation of Crimea is a violation of international law. I think that this should be stated by the Chamber of Deputies so that the members of the Government or our representatives at international negotiations, whether within the European Union or within NATO or other international institutions of which the Czech Republic is a member, have this mandate of the Chamber of Deputies. Let me just remind you that, for example, the Polish Sým took a clear stand on this issue. What I think is always a great encouragement for the country in such key events has succeeded in finding the same position of both the left and the right, because they perceived that Ukraine is not only at risk of violating international law, but that the current arrangement is threatened not only in Europe, and therefore the Polák expressed themselves unanimously against the actions taken by the Russian Federation. That's why I'm in subtle optimism. I await our upcoming meeting today. I will now introduce you to the resolutions I have prepared, because in a detailed debate, there will be room for someone else to make their proposal. The first sound would be-- now I'm saying it not completely hairdressed, but I've got it all set up. The first point would be: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic takes note of the information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the current state of affairs in Ukraine." The second point would be: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects the annexi of part of Ukraine, i.e. Crimea, and considers this step by the Russian Federation to be a violation of international law." The third point would be the mandate for the Government of the Czech Republic for further negotiations at all international levels to proceed within some single position on the part of both the European Union and NATO to ensure, as far as possible, not only a return to the legal state in Ukraine but also the security of the Czech Republic. This is a preliminary motion for a resolution which, of course, we will be able to have a debate on. Thank you now for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u3	Thank you, Madame. You therefore withdraw your proposals from February 13th. I would ask you, if necessary, to present the motions for resolutions in a detailed debate. Thank you. Now please the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u4	Thank you. Good day to you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, then, to present today's meeting, possibly a debate, with a speech in which I would like to sum up and comment on the events that have taken place in the last few days. I don't think the performance I had here a while ago would have lost meaning. I think that what was said here during the last meeting of the House at the address of the situation in Ukraine was consistent with the situation that was then. I'd just like to add what's happened in the last few days and weeks, because I think that deserves a comment, too. And unfortunately, these are not events that would make the situation any easier or move it in a direction that should somehow satisfy us. Unfortunately, it's the other way around. Of course, the key event that took place and which we opposed, not only the Czech Republic but also many other countries, was the referendum that took place in Crimea. Let me remind you before the debate some basic facts. The referendum in Crimea was contrary to the articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. As far as I know, it was contrary to Article 134 of the Ukrainian Constitution and Article 73 of the Ukrainian Constitution. In the case of Article 134, the point is that in the Constitution of Ukraine it is noted that Crimea is an integral part of Ukraine. And Article 73, that is the question of declaring a referendum. It is evident from the article that Crimea did not have the opportunity to announce a referendum on something that would have to be voted on throughout Ukraine. The reason why I say that Article 134 has been violated is because one of the two questions that has been asked was the one which is in dispute with Article 134, because it was a question of whether or not you agree with the connection of Ukraine to Crimea. I repeat, the Constitution states that Crimea is an integral part of Ukraine. So I think it's obvious that the way it went, it really was against the Ukrainian constitution. I would also like to add to this information that the UN Security Council dealt with the situation in Ukraine on 15 March. It seems important to me to inform you about what has happened on the Security Council, because although the Security Council has not adopted a resolution on the situation in Ukraine... And by the way, the resolution also contained a passage concerning the referendum. And even in this Security Council resolution, the organisation of referendums in Ukraine was rejected. Yes, it is true that resolutions have not been adopted. I just want to remind you that it was not accepted by the veto used by the Russian party. It was the only veto and the only country, i.e. China was absent. I would just like to say that the resolution was tabled by the United States, all the Member States of the European Union, also Albania, Australia, Canada, Japan, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Moldova, Montenegro, Georgia, New Zealand, Turkey. All these countries have tabled this resolution and, in the vote, 13 states of the Security Council have expressed themselves in favour, one, i.e. Russia, against and China has absconded. I think it is quite important to mention the figures, because everyone knows that using the right of veto in such a situation where the country is itself is something special, and, of course, the states themselves are avoiding such a situation, because it is an extreme means of preventing the adoption of a resolution. But the ratio probably also clearly indicates that there is a perfectly united international community, i.e. It cannot only be limited to the position of the European Union now. When you see the outcome of the Security Council vote, you can see that the position of the international community is relatively clear. And in the case of that debate in the Security Council, I think Russia has clearly gotten into isolation. I myself, in order not to just say the numbers, will say that I was quite surprised by the Russian Ambassador Čurkin's statement in the Security Council, who said that the right that gives Russia to use the veto right is the right Russia has because of the amount of blood spilled by Russia during World War II. I mention it here because when you hear it, you realize it's by coincidence Ukraine, where Timothy Snyder, in his book Bloody Land, lists 14 million fallen... Fourteen million Ukrajinec dead as a result of the world war, especially in Ukraine. I dare say here that Ukraine is the part of the world that may have suffered World War II like no other. I think that few of us can imagine the hell that Ukraine went through during World War II. And the number of the dead Ukrajinec is awful. I remind you of the 4th Ukrainian front. And I could talk for a long time about the fact that if there was a place in hell, it was Ukraine. If an incredible amount of blood and lost lives were spilled, it was Ukraine. And it seemed strange to me that when the Russian ambassador was talking about the blood spilled in World War II, he didn't realize that there was a conflict with someone who had the greatest right to talk about the blood spilled. But it is only proof for me that the debate really led to Russia's position and the Security Council's position in isolation. I would also like to mention that the situation in Ukraine has also been addressed by the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe and the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a decision on Ukraine, for which Russia, Serbia and Armenia did not vote either, otherwise all other countries voted in favour of the Council of Europe's position in which the promotion of territorial integrity, unity and independence of Ukraine was stated. In this resolution, the Council of Europe expressed solidarity with Ukraine and voted in favour of the political resolution with the assistance of the Council of Europe. So even here, I think the vote shows what the situation and the distribution of forces looked like. And I repeat, it is not only the European Union that I am going to talk about, but we also have an unapproved, but it is the course of the Security Council, which is important for us. At the same time, I also consider it important what took place on 14 March at the Council of Europe. March 15th UN Security Council in New York and 14. 3. was the meeting of the Council of Europe. Even here, the opinions are fairly clear. [[11.20 hours]] And I am now coming to the position of the European Union, because I have now spent time in the last few days at the Council of Ministers, the European Council and foreign ministers, and yesterday also at the General Affairs Council, which, in fact, has also been largely concerned with Ukraine, and I would comment on the conclusions that have taken place here. Let me inform you that the Council of Ministers, the European Council at the level of foreign ministers of the Member States of the European Union, has reached a conclusion. At this point, because of the development of a situation which, as it is obvious, is not really going well, we have decided, in the spirit of the position adopted by the Ministers on 6 March and in which it was clearly stated that if the situation is not descalated, we will continue to take restrictive measures against Russia, and in the spirit of this resolution, we have decided that restrictive measures will be applied in order to prevent entry into the Member States of the European Union and to freeze the assets of certain selected persons. In the discussion held in the working groups, we have decided that this restrictive measure will be applied against 21 persons, of whom eight are Ukrajinec from Crimea, thirteen are from Russia, among whom are three senior military officials and there are ten representatives of both chambers of the Russian Duma. These restrictive measures are taken for six months and I will say that it was also important for their preparation to assess individual persons and their actions and speeches from the point of view that any actions that are quite likely to be brought should be held before the European Court of Justice. This means that the fact that we have included some persons on this list means that we have and are also able to deliver so-called. material evidence, which will serve as evidence for the European Court of Justice, if an action is brought by these persons, because you understand that it would be politically difficult to defend if we were forced to withdraw any person on that list because they succeeded in the court. Therefore, there is an interest that these things should also be defended and verifiable in court. If you asked me what key those people were selected for, you probably noticed that the key used in the United States for the eleven people on this list in the United States was different than the key used in Europe. The basic answer is that this is based on another legal system of the United States and another legal system of Europe. While in the United States, they tend to follow the functions of those who are concerned, we followed the material evidence, their expressions and the role played by those who are concerned. I would like to point out that I consider the inclusion of the representatives of the Duma and the Federation Council to be quite a thoughtful decision from the point of view that we consider the representatives of the parliament of one or other country to be the top representation of the people. You all know that the Federation Council has even adopted a resolution calling on Mr Putin to engage in Ukraine, so that indeed the representatives of the Federation Council have played an active role in resolving the situation in Ukraine, and I myself have already publicly stated that I consider it absolutely impossible and that something that is unacceptable for one country's parliament to comment on the constitutional matters of another country and to enter into these matters. I find it absolutely indefensible and incomprehensible. It is also a fact that the Duma Members included in that list are high-ranking Members, Committee Chairs, and you probably have information that Members have prepared a legal bill that allows Crimea to join Ukraine. I have even read this legal proposal, which in the end seems not to be used, but it seems to me that it was a very curious document for a qualified lawyer of international law, which reasonably justified in a very complicated way that if extremist forces are promoted in any other country, if fascist views are promoted there, then the right and right of the state to intervene in such a country and protect other citizens in order to preserve democracy in that country. I say this a little loosely, but roughly such wordings are used in a proposal prepared by Members of the Duma and prepared if necessary for use for the connection of Crimea. Now another way has been chosen. Simply put, it seems that the proposal they have drafted will not be used, because it will take place in a relatively simpler way, based on the fact that - I will only tell you the facts and the latest events. You know, Tuesday, 18th. 3. an agreement between the Russian Federation, the Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol on accession to the Russian Federation has been signed in Moscow. You know, on the occasion of the signing of the agreement, President Putin, first in the State Duma with a speech in which he spoke rather sharply to the address not only of Europe, but of the West in the general sense, said that Russia would no longer have any further territorial requirements for Ukraine after Crimea. Then President Putin got off in the Red Square in front of about a hundred thousand people, and he got there, as I registered, standing up. And now the President of Russia is turning to the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation with a request for a statement as to whether this agreement, which was signed by 18. 3., on the connection of a new body of the Federation, is in accordance with the Constitution of the Russian Federation. The Constitutional Court will decide whether the proposed constitutional law is in accordance with the Constitution and this international agreement on the connection of a new body of the Federation will be handed over for ratification by both chambers of the Federal Assembly together with the draft constitutional law defining the name, status and boundaries of the future body of the Federation. If this ratification is successful in both chambers of the Russian Parliament, there will be a change in the constitution and, in fact, the creation of new bodies of the Federation. So the whole approval process, based on the information I have, is due to be completed by the end of the week. So that is roughly what has happened, and that is why I think it is necessary to take what is happening in Parliament seriously and to talk about those people who actually guarantee this process, who have actually prepared several possible scenarios. I'm telling you, the draft I was talking about wasn't used in the end because there was another procedure. But in any case, the responsibility of the representatives of Parliament, the Russian House, the Federation Council is essential, because we are living in a parliamentary democracy, and Parliament is actually a representative and main representative of the will of people living in one or another country. On the other hand, I would not want to create the impression that the list is final, the twenty-one names, and that these are the last names to appear on it, because we have already discussed other proposals during the course of Monday in particular. I do not rule out the fact that there may be names appearing on the list made out by the United States of America, because for some people today, we already have documents that would allow them to be included on that list. I consider it quite likely, given how the situation is developing, that the premieres who meet tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will try and probably complete and expand the list by some other names. But I'm getting ahead of myself. This is the competence of the prime ministers and prime ministers of the Member States to act from tomorrow. I think for myself, because I know how working groups work, which actually didn't interrupt the work on drawing up the list for the future, so I know that they process other names and that this extension is quite likely. So what happened, that's one pretty crucial thing. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that not only have these restrictive measures been taken, and it will probably be discussed further at the premieres' meeting on the abolition of the summit between the European Union and Russia, which was to be held in Sochi. I consider it likely that even this summit will eventually be abolished. In addition to the fact that we are at that second stage of restrictive measures, I would like to inform you that the working group is already examining at this point the possible effects of those sanctions which, if they were applied and if the third package were to be opened, are currently examining the impact of these sanctions on the economy and the consequences that would have had it for the countries of the European Union. So the impact analysis is being processed, for example, in the field of energy, where the possibilities of reducing Europe's energy dependence and the European Union's states on Russia are being explored. And, of course, in connection with this work, further decisions can then be taken. If the prime ministers decide to open a third package of restrictive measures, they already have studies to provide them with information today. The decision-making will be in the hands of the Prime Minister. [[11.30 hours]] I would also like to remind you that what was important and what the ministers have decided is that we have decided that 21st all will be ready for the political part of the association agreement between the European Union and Russia to be signed. [[correct: Ukraine]] The political part means that the selected chapters - these are chapters 1, 6, 7 of the treaty that Europe was supposed to conclude with Ukraine, as you know, already in the past months with President Janukovyč - so those political parts are chosen. And from those economics that fall under the Commission, it was there that certain customs and commercial measures were removed and the signature decided to provide Ukraine with certain economic advantages in terms of easier and duty-free movement of goods from Ukraine to European countries. The peculiarity of the adjustment is that, contrary to the original, it will not mean automatic commitments for Ukraine, so that it too will be, its products were listed or to be subject to customs duties. So it is a one-sided advantage for the Ukrainian party, which represents some relatively significant economic incentive for the current Ukrainian government. This was also a decision, and the ministers and prime ministers will have everything ready to sign this agreement with Ukraine, an amended agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, which I believe would be a significant and significant help. At the same time, of course, these are other forms of financial assistance. The International Monetary Fund will play an important role here. And I would like to stress that any financial assistance that will be provided to Ukraine, even though it is an expression of our solidarity, will also be subject to quite strict consistency, that is, the treatment of this money will be quite strictly bound to ensure that flows are under control, that we are guaranteed that money will not end up in the pockets of the oligarchs and are not used effectively. Even part of the resolution adopted by the Ministers are passages where it is stressed that it is the control of the treatment of these funds that is an important part of the aid. But I repeat, this will not just be steps or means that come from the European Union to Ukraine. But the essential part will concern the funds provided by the International Monetary Fund. An important element of the agreement that has also been made, and the resolution that was adopted on Monday, is the decision that we are seeking to send a mission and support the deployment of the mission of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe to Ukraine. This mission should monitor the situation throughout Ukraine. It's a mission that should be large enough. It would actually be about hundreds of observers, so it could be, I'll guess, 1,500, so that's a very large mission. It would be a source of objective information. Of course, the problem with approving this observer contingent is that until now, if I have the latest reports, there is still no consent from Russia for the mission to be definitively dispatched. So it's a thing that's going on permanently, and I believe it's something that needs to be done, and it's doing everything for it. So this mission of observers in the territory of Ukraine is a matter that is another requirement supported by the Council of Ministers of the Member States of the European Union. So briefly summarized, we are still in the second stage of restrictive measures, but at the same time we are already working on opening the third package. What will happen will be decided by the premieres during the meeting on Thursday and Friday. For myself, I believe that this will be an extension of the restrictive measures against certain specific persons and will probably seek to use some other measures on which there will be agreement between Member States. That's what's going to happen in the next two days. So let me make a general statement on what has happened in the last few days in Crimea. I would like to say here, colleagues, perhaps this. Of course, we can have different views here on the current Ukrainian government. We can have different levels of faith, skepticism, doubts, because we know that this government is a compromise. We can have a discussion that it would be better if the government were more inclusive, which was actually the Union's original demand, and this was promoted by the three ministers on their mission in the middle of the most dramatic days when they visited Ukraine and tried to help create a government far enough wide enough to cut off the two extremes and leaned more on the political center. You know it didn't quite work out. I would like to be here because I was in the Ukrainian Parliament again to remind you that I actually heard from representatives of current opposition parties, such as the Party of the Regions, that they were offered this and they rejected it for the reasons they told us. So, of course, the government isn't ideal. We have been repeating to Ukrainian representatives many times and repeatedly, and now in recent days, I have spoken to the Ukrainian Foreign Minister on Monday, for example, that we are extremely interested in actually preparing the presidential election on 25 May. We consider this to be a very important matter, and I think there are more Union politicians who want this process to be handled. The main task of the government is to normalize the situation in the country, guaranteeing that the police will work, that the country will be under the maximum control of the state administration. But we can have all sorts of doubts. We know the extremes haven't been cut. That even, let's say, in those political representatives of Ukraine, there are opinions that we need to criticise, because we cannot mind if they are there within the Right Block, they are politicians who clearly reject Europe, they are clearly anti-European. [[Do you mind?]] And if the European mission fails too, I imagine they would be driven after a wave of war against everyone. Which is definitely something that's not helping. That there can be great reservations and doubts as to how this government, which is relatively fragile, can handle all the difficult tasks facing it. But I would ask you here now to move this aside a little bit and do some things that seem absolutely essential to me in the last few days, and that's what's happened in Crimea. The referral that took place. And what has happened in the last few days, when the Russian President, the Russian Duma and the Russian political elite have decided to join the Crimea with Russia. This is what I want to focus your attention on right now, because it seems to me that we should be aware that this is really something extremely dangerous. I consider it very dangerous for the idea of a referendum on borders to take place. Do you understand? That we're going to hold a referendum on the state's borders. I would like to tell you that we have been living in peace here in Europe for decades precisely because we respect our borders. I would like to remind you, fellow Members, that the borders between Germany and France are respected here. That the border between Germany and Poland is respected. That there is respect for the borders between Hungary and Slovakia. No one here comes up with how it's going to be with Alsace-Lotrinsk or how many Polák live in Těšínsko. [[11.40 hours]] We've gotten used to these things not becoming part of the political debate, because I think you all know where I'm going. If we allow this border debate, if we say there are going to be border referendums, then we are going to hell, and the whole life that we have had here, and there has been a certain security code, can be spread very quickly. I would like to say to you, my friends, that I am very concerned when I read in various journals and journals in Europe that some political leaders, say some extremely nationalist parties with great enthusiasm, welcome Mr Putin's remarks on the right to self-determination. I wish you could read some articles and subtitles in Hungary by extreme nationalists who are excited about what is happening today and say, yes, finally, someone said it out loud. And now I could name the ethnicity that they say today - in Europe! We're not somewhere in the Middle East, we're in Europe - finally a word to the punch! Finally, someone came up with this amazing idea! What if we also started making referendums? Friends, I guarantee you, if this idea is to be pushed forward, it is the veto of a peaceful and secure Europe! It's over! If we don't respect the boundaries, if we say it's all a matter of debate, we'll never get anything. Remember, my friends, this is a debate that never ends. Who has the right to live and we will count the population. Take the Crimea itself. They say there's a lot of Rus in there. Of course, there are a lot of them, because you all know that in 1944, when Stalin decided he wanted to have peace at the Yalt Conference, he moved it out here. And how long were they there? Rumor has it it belongs to Russia, Krym. How long? One hundred and fifty-two hundred years. The Tatař lived there before. How do we count it, who owns it? Does it belong to the person who lived there 400 years before or to the person who lived there 150 years later? The population that's in there right now, we're going to add up, and we're going to decide where it belongs? You see, these aren't things that are written in the sky today. This is a question of human society's agreement to say, "We will respect this because we want to live in peace." We're not gonna brag about who ever fought who, how many of us were here over 100 years, 150 years. These are exactly the things that have terrible danger in them, huge risk potential! When this is done in the course of debate, it becomes hate, and eventually it can lead to civil wars and to the sweeping of the system in which we live. So I'm saying the basic thing that I'd like us to agree on. The moment someone starts holding referendums because of the borders on the grounds that they say "I have a national minority," we're in hell! Friends, I'll give you one statement from Mr Putin's speech. In the speech he had, he said these words. He said: Our Russian citizens slept in their beds in the evening. They woke up this morning and discovered that they were beyond the borders of another state. Do you understand? He says, "And suddenly they're just a minority." And he says: We Rus, apparently in 1991, when the original Soviet Union was dissolved, he says: we were agrabled, we were robbed, we were stolen, the territories were stolen. We thought that when the Independent States were formed, Putin said that it would eventually be one of the gasudas, as he says. But it turns out I didn't. I mean, the ruble was in common and all that! Turns out we didn't, so we were robbed and it was stolen. I'm sorry, I wouldn't want to be in the skin of the representatives of these countries today. And also notice that the reactions of these states - Kazakhstan, Belarus, and others - are very cautious. There you can clearly see that they are almost confused by the situation and do not know how to respond to it, because all those states calculate how many Rus they have on their territory, and now they have learned that their territory was actually stolen from Russia. Do you understand? That's what I find very fundamental about this speech. As if it were said here that the break-up of the Soviet Union was like a crime committed on Russia, and now the question is - does that mean the crime is to be corrected? Should I then believe Mr Putin's words when he says that it is sufficient Krym him that he will not raise any further claims when he actually leads the speech himself in a different direction at the same time? He leads to the fact that there is a robbed Russia that will want those who have become national minorities to become once again a part of perhaps one great common Russia, where they can live together with other Rus. And now the question is, how many Rus must be in that space to talk about it as potentially Russian territory, and where this process will end. Is it true the Rus were oppressed in Crimea? I'm asking. Do we have any evidence that the Rus actually suffered in Crimea, as it sounds in the official statements? It's complicated. I remember seeing Time magazine from 1938, which was all devoted to how Němec suffer in the border areas of Czechoslovakia. And it was a magazine that fascinated me because I took the feeling from the magazine that those Čech were something terrible. They torture almost the poor, those who live there rubbish poverty with need, and those Čech do it on purpose. You see, we've been through this on our own, this kind of propaganda! And now we are to be persuaded that the Rus suffered in Crimea, which is why it was necessary for Vladimir Putin to admit in this speech that they were Russian troops. You all know he denied it. He repeatedly denied it in public many times. In this speech he said officially for the first time: Yes, we expanded the contingent of Russian troops in Crimea, because we decided to help the Rus who suffered there and were oppressed. You all know that when the Russian-language population in Crimea was 58 percent, it's hard to imagine who they were suffering under. Of course, we can say that the people of Crimea suffered. They suffered because there was a government in Ukraine that we have no illusions about today, and of course the entire Ukraine suffered under the government, which was corrupt, with which the vast majority of the population were dissatisfied. This means that the discontent of the people of Crimea was very similar to the discontent that you would find elsewhere in that country, and anyone could say that they feel frustrated about not having a good government, does not live in a country that is well managed. But I think it wasn't something special about Russian-speaking people, and you understand that those Russian-speaking people are the question of who felt 100% Rus. It's complicated. But what I'm saying is that this argument is completely vague, vague. If it becomes the basis of the referendum and then even the country's connection, it is a denial of the principles on which the security state is based, the international order, and that is actually what Europe is standing, but not just Europe is standing on. And that is why it seems so important to me to talk about it here in the House and that is why I considered it important to open the topic here so that we realize that these are the principles on which the Czech Republic also stands. And I don't want to get into the details, because everyone realizes it on their own. We too live by our neighbors' respect for our borders. And the only reason we have peace in Europe is because we agreed to respect that. I consider this principle dangerous! Once again, it is very unpleasant to see how many political forces of extreme, nationalist have come to life and which see the water alive in this. And that is the danger that threatens us. That is actually why Vladimir Putin here and his policy really brings a dangerous topic to Europe, and the subject really lives here. It's actually starting to work here. That is why I think it is important for us here in the Czech debate in the Czech Parliament to realise what we are dealing with and that we should reject this. And we should reject this regardless of the fact that we have different political denominations, and we should reject it regardless of the fact that we can have different views on the perspective of this Ukrainian government, regardless of the hope of the European perspective of Ukraine. [[11.50 hours]] This may be a matter of another debate, and I know it may not be easy. We can have different opinions about this. Some of us can be skeptical, some of us can be more involved in this. And I'd like to ask you to put it aside. The debate about Ukraine is complicated. Let's save it for the committee. It seems important to me today to talk about the fact that violating the principle of protection and respect for borders is something vital for culture, civilization, European culture and civilization, Europe and the Czech Republic. I'd like us to be able to agree on that. If we can do this, it makes sense that this isn't just a matter of committee business where I'm ready to talk about it. Yesterday I was on the European Committee where we had this discussion. However, I think it is so crucial that it belongs in the House plenary. I think this is a very important subject for us to get to the bottom of this. Because I wish that Czech politics would be clear about this and know that this is the way to hell, whether we sit here more to the right or sitting more to the left. And maybe one more thing, one last thing, in the end, is, let's just say, a comment to conclude on the situation outside of my official report. When I was a kid, I remember giving kids a riddle. The adults asked them, " How do you handle the steppe when there's a fire coming at you and you have a box of matches in your pocket?" How are you gonna handle it before the fire? The correct answer that almost none of us could come up with was that a fire is driven by some wind, and one has strangely lit the grass around one another. And the grass when it burns, it creates an island that saves it from the fire that runs on it. This old puzzle for the children has crossed my mind. And I would like to say to you that it seems to me that the situation in Ukraine and Crimea is very well suited to this event. You know why? Because it is interesting, it is evident that the revolution in Kiev was a very unpleasant thing for Vladimir Putin. It was an example of something that apparently Vladimir Putin felt virtually threatened by. It seems to me that the strategy used to do this could be called the strategy of the second revolution, the second fire that will ignite somewhere else. And I would even venture to say that the first place he tried to do that was the Antimaidan that was to be created in Kharkiv. This was an attempt that followed immediately, even expected to leave Janukovyč there, which failed, and then only Crimea remained the place of the second revolution. I would like to draw your attention to how surprisingly similar these revolutions are. Remember that even in Crimea government buildings began to occupy, even in Crimea began to post flags, only other ones, even in Crimea began to move militants without a name, without a clear identification, similar to the militia and so on. You are surprised to find that a number of elements of the Crimean revolution have surprisingly similar characteristics like what happened in Ukraine. I'm giving it to you as a motive, that strategically it's very interesting - to dampen one revolution by calling the other, and the other actually protects you from the first one. I find it an interesting idea to understand events. That is why I also think that Russia's and Vladimir Putin's approach also impresses me with the impression of quite highly thought-out steps that have some internal logic. If I could talk about why they were implemented, I think their motive is, on the one hand, to threaten the idea of the Eurasian Customs Union, but at the same time, I think it is also an answer to the economic problems that Russia has had at home and which are relatively fundamental. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that one thing is the sanctions that are being mentioned in relation to Russia, and the other thing is that I think that if Russia sets out on this path of isolation and does not change its behaviour, I believe that in the long term it risks having unpleasant effects on Russia itself. I believe that Europe was not a bad partner for Russia. What bothers me is that Mr Putin's performance heard a tone that seemed to make Europe an enemy. I'm incredibly upset about this. Because I believe that Europe is not part of the world that wants to do politics based on the image of the enemy. I have even stressed in Czech politics that we should not always remember 1968, we should leave the past behind and give Russia a chance to build a new type of policy, a new type of state. I could read you Vladimir Putin's speech from 2002. A speech in which Vladimir Putin - and I think I'll say it from my head quite precisely - in which he says: Russia does not want to stand alone against the rest of the world. Russia does not want to be the one who stands on one side and has others as enemies. Russia is a state that wants to be modern, which wants to be clear about the principles of international law, the principles that are the basis of international security. Russia wants to be predictable and wants to be a good partner to all. That's Putinův's speech from 2002. I'm really unhappy with the arch that came out here when I listen to Mr Putin today, who talks about Europe as a hostile whole. I believe that Europe, and I guarantee that here, there are a number of ministers at the Council's meetings with whom we will understand very much when we have the chance to create bridges, to create room for negotiations in order to prevent this escalation that is taking place at this moment. I do not think it is simply because of the fear for Europe and its comfort. I believe this is also disadvantageous for Russia itself. Yes, Russia can move a part of its economic activity east in the event of economic sanctions, but, on the one hand, the gas pipes won't reach out so quickly, it's a matter of five or six years, it's a complicated thing, and then I think the Číňan will never do it for free. I'm sure this is a rather expensive operation, too. I believe that Europe has always been a beneficial and correct partner for Russia and that it will be difficult to find someone like this in the world. Because international trade is not an easy and comfortable environment. I feel like it's a huge mistake in that sense. If Russia embarks on a journey of isolation, I think it will eventually discover that it has rid itself of a partner who has been a huge chance for Russia in terms of modernization, technology and so on. I don't think it's just our hesitation. Unless we're happy that there's a process going on that suddenly seems to be changing the situation. It seems to me that this is a process that we are losing, but that Russia will lose significantly on it. And I wish this hadn't happened. I don't think we're standing on the brink of some cold war. I don't think we can sleep in a bipolar world again. That's what the world has changed in today. I don't think Russia can play that role in the future, and I don't accept that kind of reasoning and speech. However, I think that if Russia does not change the direction of its behaviour and thinking, it can itself enter political isolation and some isolation and economic, which I think will be very disadvantageous for Russia in the long term. So that's my view of the situation. Perhaps the last thing I would like to say to you is that from the point of view of the Czech Republic alone I would assure you that, of course, there is no imminent danger to the Czech Republic today. In the short and medium term, there may be things that are related to possible anti-Russian sanctions and, above all, to the possible application of the third package of sanctions. However, these are things where we are beginning to work on impact studies and consider what this would mean for the functioning economy and the economic situation in the country. From a longer-term point of view, it will undoubtedly be necessary to analyse the impact of this crisis on relations with Russia as well as on global security policy and on the impact on the security of the Czech Republic. Analyses in this area are underway today, as I said, in Europe, they are being processed, and I can assure you that we are also starting to deal with them in the Czech Republic. But this is fundamental: at this point, I think we do not have a problem with any danger of increased migration and I do not think that the country's security is now in any way threatened. Although we are facing a serious political crisis, it is far from acute for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u5	I thank the Minister and the Member for their opening speech. And before we launch a general debate, we must deal with two factual points. Mr Benešík comes with the first, and I ask that Mr Petr Fiala prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u6	Madam President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, just for information. The Committee on European Affairs held a meeting yesterday after the House meeting, which was monothematic. We dealt with the situation in Ukraine. Our only guest, the main guest, was the Minister of Foreign Affairs Zaorálek. We did not adopt any resolution, nor was it planned, but it was clear from the debate that we were expressing our support for the Minister in his actions in this matter. [[12.00 hours]] And I will take advantage of the fact that I have the floor, just to briefly mention one aspect of the problem in Ukraine, which is not mentioned enough, namely nuclear safety. Ukraine, in exchange for guarantees for territorial cohesion, the signatory of which is also Russia, has given up nuclear weapons. What Russia has done to violate this agreement, this guarantee, sends a clear signal to regimes such as North Korea, such as Iran, which the West, and not only the West, is trying to get Russia and Russia not only to develop nuclear weapons. So then this pressure essentially decreases in strength, and maybe it doesn't have any weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u7	I thank the honourable Member and please Mr Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u8	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, which is actually a question, I can follow up on President Benešík. I am pleased that after yesterday's very thorough discussion of the Committee on European Affairs, even after today's speech by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I can say that, as a representative of the opposition, I support not only the steps taken by the government, the steps taken by the government in Ukraine's crisis, but also the way, analysis, the approach to how it is presented here by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because I think he rightly understands the extraordinary danger of Russian action in Crimea, the potential threat to the international order, the many dangers arising from this. The only thing I would be different from him is that I believe that, even in the medium term, Russia's approach threatens the security of the Czech Republic. But that's my question, too. We had the Prime Minister present on the Committee on European Affairs this morning, who introduced us to the position of the Czech Republic before the meeting in the European Council, and, of course, the debate on further progress towards Russia will be quite difficult among European countries. There are countries that are very tough to follow, to tighten up the other package of sanctions, to introduce a third package of sanctions, and it is clear that this will result in some common outcome. But I do not know what position the Czech Government will take in this meeting. Whether it will belong to those countries - which I think, because of our threat to our historical reality and ours - will it belong to those countries that will be for the strictest possible approach towards Russia and against the clear (?) "No" to this Russian policy. So that's my question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. I am initiating this general debate, in which I have the priority right of President Jan Hamáček of the House, Vice-President of the House of Mr Vojtěch Filip, and then Mr Schwarzenberg. I ask, gentlemen, in this order if you can. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u10	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to start my speech with a topic that has not yet been discussed here, but I also consider it at least from the position of the Czech Republic important. And I must say that I am still a little under the impression of my meeting, which I had about an hour ago with Mrs Snidevyčová, who is a representative of the Volyně Čech, who live in the Zitomir region, and also Vice-President of the Czech National Council in Ukraine, a rooftop organization that brings together our compatriots who live in Ukraine. I invited her to a meeting because I wanted to hear her opinion on the situation in Ukraine. I wanted to hear what situation our countrymen are in, what troubles them, what problems they are facing. And, of course, I also wanted to hear what the Czech Republic could do for them. I must say that it was very interesting, to some extent sad, because our countrymen are in a really difficult situation. They're very worried about the future. They don't know what's coming. Their sons, some, received summoning orders that they had to take up service either in the national guards or in the Ukrainian army. And these are all things that, of course, bother them. I would like the Czech Republic to take this issue responsibly, if we could remember that these people belong to us, they are our countrymen to offer them a helping hand. I promised Mrs Snidevyčová that I would ask the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers to attend to this matter. It is certainly possible for the Czech Republic to come up with some solution and some program that would offer them, for example, the possibility of relocation to the Czech Republic. After all, we have had a very successful resettlement programme for our compatriots who have been affected by the Chernobyl disaster. It was a few thousand people who came here in the '90s. These people and their families are now fully integrated in Czech society, and they have certainly been a great asset to the places where they relocated. I would also like to turn to the rapporteur for the resolution whether she would agree to add a paragraph to this resolution asking the Government of the Czech Republic to address the problem of Czech compatriots in Ukraine. I think that would be important and the resolution would be even more balanced. So much for the first thing. I have a few comments on the general debate. Firstly, I am glad that the Czech Republic is predictable in the European Union, that such voluntary isolation ended, when the Czech Republic acted completely uncoordinatedly, when it came up with an idea, mostly critical of our partners in the European Union, and often did not consult partners. If we want to fulfil and continue the fact that the Czech Republic is predictable in the European Union and that we want to be a partner to our allies both in the Union and in the Alliance, we must proceed in a coordinated manner. One-sided decisions and unilateral measures cannot be taken. I understand both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister when they defined themselves against the challenges of the Czech Republic introducing unilateral sanctions, unilateral measures to unilaterally take positions. This is not possible, and if we are to be reliable allies, we must proceed in a coordinated manner. What happened in Crimea is a situation where the Russian Federation crossed the Rubikon and decided to deal with a situation that is nothing but a clear and to some extent unprecedented violation of international law. It needs to be clearly called, and we need to talk about it this way. I think it is in the interest of the Czech Republic as a smaller or medium-sized country that international law should always be respected, because it is also our future and our autonomy. On the other hand, it must also be said that in the past, the Czech Republic has not always treated this principle. And unfortunately, it was also here in the Chamber of Deputies, I remember the debate. The Chamber of Deputies called on the Government not to respect Resolution 1244 and Kosovo in Kosovo. The government has decided otherwise. And we were already saying that we were opening up a completely explosive Pandořin box and that the effects of that decision would catch up with us. And unfortunately, it might be worth saying "yes, it was a mistake" backwards. However, such parallels and such analogies cannot justify what happened in Crimea. Just a solution by deploying military force on the territory of another Member State is unacceptable. I, of course, have a simpler position than some of my colleagues, I was against Kosovo, I spoke against South Ossetia and Abkhazia and the annexation that took place there, and I am therefore against the situation in Crimea. However, this thing doesn't just have that dimension. There appeared another very interesting thing, which must also be pointed out, and this is the aspect that is quite new, unlike the examples that I mentioned in the past, and this is the deployment of units that are unidentified. Those are units that don't have any markings no one's checking in with. That, in my opinion, opens another Pandořin's box. I'm asking how it will be in the future, if there isn't another new precedent that Russia has introduced here in this case, when a small state is supposed to be adjacent to a large state, to fear when unmarked tanks will appear on its territory, which will reach the capital and no one will report to them. It's a new precedent in terms of Geneva conventions. I have no idea what would happen to such unmarked kombatants in the event of a conflict. And that's a thing I think is also very dangerous. However, the situation in Crimea - and I think that it is possible to debate the resolution, as proposed by Mrs Němcová, and I think that it is quite very clear that the position of the Chamber of Deputies, at least as I see it, and that the position of the Czech Republic, as well as that of the European Union - the situation in Crimea should not overshadow what is happening in the rest of Ukraine. There, it is still necessary to insist that the situation in Ukraine itself, outside the conflict in Crimea, does not escalate further in order for the whole matter to lead to a political solution. [[12.10 hours]] On this point, it is necessary to say, and the Minister here has said that the Ukrainian government has made a number of mistakes, and there is a need to name the mistakes here, and it is necessary to influence the government in order not to repeat these errors. Of course, the language law was a fatal mistake. I think that even the biggest radicals in the Ukrainian government realized that they shouldn't have gone that way. In this context, I am asking myself a question, and perhaps it would be worth the foreign minister's answer to this, what is the fate of the agreement between the three foreign ministers and the then president Janukovyč. This agreement applies, does not apply, or what are the grounds and bases for negotiating some arrangement in Ukraine? Is it still true that there will be an effort in Ukraine to establish a government of national unity? If so, it is also necessary to influence the government's Garniture in order to do so and to at least try to send a signal to the regions east to make them feel that they are also represented in Kiev. And what, in my opinion, is absolutely crucial is the presidential campaign. I agree that we need to hold a presidential election. Nothing but elections will solve the situation in Ukraine, but it is also necessary from the European Union to work on individual candidates who will run in the campaign so that the campaign does not mean any further cuts and other cracks in Ukraine's unity, because I think it still holds that the greatest danger that could be at the end of the whole story is some division of Ukraine into Eastern and Western, with all the consequences and consequences that it would have. Here I see a great deal of room for European diplomacy and for our democracy, to work on Ukrainian political representation, not to further deepen the wounds that have been made, and to try to keep the country together. Of course, the presidential campaign should also be used for this. The last thing I want to say is the sanctions and measures of the international community. We all agree that however difficult this situation is and however complicated it is by Russia's unilateral step in Crimea, it should have no other solution than political solutions. In order to arrive at such a political solution, we need to sit at the negotiating table and start negotiating. I understand and I see that not all actors are willing to act. Therefore, sanctions should also serve to stimulate or force all partners or all actors to sit at the negotiating table. However, even with regard to sanctions, it is necessary to be very careful. I agree that sanctions can be a very good tool to achieve a goal. It is therefore necessary to define clearly what the objective is, whether it is - and I hope so - to get all the actors to the negotiating table and to start serious talks on where Ukraine is going. However, nothing should exaggerate, and there is also a need to bear in mind the broader context of this matter. You know, there's talk here about the need to introduce tough economic sanctions against Russia, that we need to target the Russian economy and go this way. I would warn you very much about it for one simple reason. We had a certain degree of stability here historically during the Cold War because of the fact that the doctrine of mutually guaranteed destruction worked here, which means that both parties knew that if they pressed the button and the rockets flew out, it would be the last thing they did in their lives, because the retaliation coming from the other side would be huge. I would warn against escalating tensions and rhetoric into a situation where we would decide to introduce some drastic economic sanctions against the Russian Federation, first of all, without a clear objective - I do not yet know what the objective or reason should be to introduce such massive sanctions - but, at the same time, when such sanctions would be imposed at the cost of the destruction of the European economy, the destroyed Russian economy, and total destabilization at the end of the story. At the end of this story can be a very turbulent development both in Europe and in the Russian Federation. I'm afraid that if we take this very dangerous path in my opinion, then at the end of this story, many of us will not be sitting here, there will be somebody else sitting here, with a completely different rhetoric. I think that would be dangerous. This matter needs to be treated with consideration, diplomaticity, understanding, and always bearing in mind that there is no other solution than diplomaticity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u12	Thank you. Madam President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I do not like to read your speeches to you. On Friday I received a letter from the President of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Petr Simoněnko, and I would like to quote it to you, for the reason that the things that I will continue to say have the basis in what not only I, but also the members of the KSČM thanked. Thanks for the support we provide to the working and Communist Party of Ukraine: Tens of thousands of Ukrainian communists, who continue to defend our common ideals and interests of workers, are asking the international communist, workers' and leftist movements for support and solidarity. On the tragic events in Kiev from 20 to 22 February 2014, during which many of our fellow citizens died, we have also informed you of our position on these events. - I can also read you the information I received. We have pointed out increasingly intensive interference with Ukraine's internal affairs from abroad. We advocated that tensions in Ukraine should be addressed by dialogue of all political forces. We have proposed the creation of an independent folk control body to oversee the government's activities and prepare a national referendum in which the people of Ukraine would rightly decide their future. We have proposed the creation of an institution of optional judges and a political reform that would result in the decentralization of state power in Ukraine. Our calls were not answered by former President Janukovyč or the leaders of the opposition. Ukraine has reached the very limit of social and social disruption, de facto domination and anarchy. As a result of the demoralization of the entire power apparatus in Ukraine, the system of executive and judicial power almost ceased to function. At present, there is no one to ensure compliance with the law. In Ukraine, the power of armed nationalist and ultra-right groups, which, on behalf of the revolution, can occupy the people's property, commit violence on them and intimidate them. The situation is out of control, with police and interior leaders recruiting from yesterday's opposition having no better influence on armed groups and, worse, being silently involved in lawlessness. KS activists of Ukraine have become the first victims of attacks. It is widely known that the efforts of Ukrainian nationalists and Western powers are the complete destruction of the communist movement in Ukraine. Under the conditions of the collapse of the legal system, communists are exposed to extortion and intimidation, they are physically assaulted, property seizure, including party printers. There are efforts to completely paralyze the activities of the KS Ukraine. The most significant example was the "revolutionaries" carried out by the confiscation of the Office of the Communist Party of Ukraine in Kiev and the raid of workers who were in the building. Much of our regional offices have been looted and fired. Hundreds of World War II monuments have been destroyed in Ukraine. The tragic events in Ukraine are the result of the group's suicide policy, which completely ignores the possibility of compromise and dialogue with opponents in the fight for power, which is actively used by radical movements that personalize the right to commit any lawlessness under opposition slogans. In this difficult time, the KS of Ukraine defends the rights of the common people, fights to meet its program goals and seeks to restore and grow the influence of the Communist Party throughout Ukraine. We continue to support the interest of the people in preserving Ukraine's territorial unity. In order to do this, a broadest dialogue of all political forces is needed. The Communist Party of Ukraine takes the view that federalization and increased regional competence can save Ukraine's territorial unity and create conditions for a return to serenity and mutual understanding among the citizens of Ukraine. We are turning to all Communist, workers' and left-wing parties with a request to continue to provide support and assistance to the Communist Party of Ukraine in its difficult struggle for common principles and goals. On behalf of thousands of our members, thank you. With respect, Petr Simoněnko. I read it precisely to avoid being suspected of recording what happened in Crimea and protecting the interests of other states in Ukraine. [[12.20 hours]] I am convinced that if anyone is talking about the common values of Europe, the values that need to be protected within the European Union, then there is also a need to take a minimum of the right to a different political view among these values, the right to participate in governance, in order that all political views can be represented in the decision-making of the next fate of any country. And in this respect, it must be said that it is not possible to unilaterally support the power that has taken up its functions in a way that contradicts fundamental European values. I also pointed out on the TV show that the Ukrainian rabbi called on the Žid living in Ukraine to move to Israel, just remembering that under Bohdan Chmelnickýý there were pogroms on the Žid, that during the Second World War it was also constant discharge from nationalists, and I think that the Czech population was also there under very difficult conditions and finally there is in difficult conditions today. Bands of banderos have actually murdered not many citizens of the Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, outside and my relatives. So in this respect, I believe that the fundamental question here is whether the new power is capable of respecting the agreement made by President Janukovyč with three foreign ministers of the European Union. If they control this Majdan, if they can really be those who will be representatives of the state power in Ukraine. I support both presidential and parliamentary elections as soon as possible, so that the people who have been elected in the free elections take power in Ukraine, because otherwise we will be in a situation where we will support someone who will only steal millions of euros, millions of crowns, or billions that will not serve the citizens of Ukraine in a different way. It is therefore unclear to me in this respect and I would like to know the opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the answer to the published call between Mrs Ashtonová and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Estonia, who actually shot the policemen, the demonstrators in Ukraine. Who was that? In this context, I have another question which should not be answered by Mrs Ashtonová, but in particular by those who are in government positions in Ukraine today. Why is there no willingness to create an investigative body to address what actually happened there? No one in the assessment doubts that the situation was not good there for a long time. The war of individual groups of oligarchs is unlikely to be issued for the functioning of the democratic rule of law. In this respect, I would like the Czech Republic to act as a member of the European Union with at least a great responsibility for being part of the former Czechoslovakia at its time, since 1919. And in this respect, if I respect the view of the KS of Ukraine and the majority of the Ukrainian people that Ukraine's territorial unity is to be preserved, we probably need to contribute to this in some way. One motion here was made by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I have nothing against him. Yes, so let's take care of it if one of the Volyň Čech wants to move back to the Czech Republic, I have no objection to it, but let's do it in a decent way so it doesn't look like we're discussing a united Ukraine. I don't think that's the point of such a measure. But why do the Volyan Čech ask for it? Does he feel safe there? Does he feel any perspective there, in this state, which I think should remain united, democratic and with European values? Do we demand from those who are today leaders in Ukraine to respect European values, including the right to political organisation, political opinion and participation in elections? Do we want that from them, or is there something else in our interest? Now I mean the interest of the Czech Republic. In this respect, I think that rash conclusions are conclusions that have no value for the future, and I demand that Czech foreign policy measure the same metro for everyone. These are, in my opinion, the fundamental steps that we can take as an almost neighbouring state for a united Ukraine. In this respect, I believe that the questions that we can ask here today or will be asked on another occasion should also be passed on by the Foreign Minister at the meeting of the European Council of Foreign Ministers, so that precisely in this spirit, according to these European values, the current situation in Ukraine should be measured. That, in my opinion, is crucial. And let me take a little turn. As far as international law is concerned, we have already learned in legal theory what territorial plebiscite is. We know that one, of course. Of course, we also know the international pact on civil and political rights, which states in Article 1 (1) that "each nation has the right to its own political regime, to use its natural resources." So let us try to respect that this is also the commitment that the Czech Republic took after the former Czechoslovakia, because it is published in the Collection of Laws under No. 120 from 1976. It is one of our commitments and let us not forget it, because it is one of the fundamental rights that we have. It is very important for us, too, and we should not let ourselves be talked into how we will use our own resources and how we will organise our state. But of course, we will require the values that are there for ourselves, but also for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u13	I thank the Vice-President. Before I give the floor to Mr Schwarzenberg, we must deal with three factual points. Mr. Foldyna comes with the first, then Minister Stropnický and then Minister Zaorálek. Mr. Schwarzenberg, I'm so sorry, but you applied with priority rights. Hang on, 'cause the real thing comes first. Thank you. I was just saying, you know, why are the gentlemen who are logged in to the facts in front of you? Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u14	Thank you. Sorry for the confusion. I, through Madam President, would ask my party colleague, friend and our Minister for Foreign Affairs. Speaking of international law and requiring Russia to apply, is it the same international law and the same Helsinki Treaty that did not apply in the Balkans, and now we want it to apply in Russia? Is it the same right, or do we just read it differently in the Balkans and otherwise in Russia? Speaking of the Constitution of Ukraine, is this the constitution that says that the president can only be called off by himself or death or impeachment? Is this the constitution that called off the president in this way? Do the laws still apply in Ukraine? Do the laws also apply to Berkut policemen who defended their country in accordance with the Staff Regulations and had to kneel down in Kharkov and ask the crowds? Does any law and constitution also apply to them? My colleagues, aren't we looking at this hypocritically, that there's ever a right for someone? It applies to the Albánec of Kosovo to gain their independence by various means, and it does not apply to the Rus in Crimea now. Or what it is? My colleague and friend Lubomír Zaorálek, the first victim of these conflicts is usually the truth. We've witnessed it in the past. In her campaign, Mrs. Clintonová told of her running around the airport with her daughter and sneaking around in front of her snipers. Reuters' diaries showed her that she wasn't skimming around. Then she admitted that she lied. Tony Blair said the Srb in Kosovo murdered 20 teachers in an Albanian village. Reuters says there is one school in that village, one teacher, alive and well. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not lie in our pockets, let's not be hypocrites and look at these things objectively.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And with another de facto, please, Minister Stropnický. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really just on the edge. Watch out for the parallels. Foreign policy may be even more tempting than domestic policy to use such excesses until I say abuse, and sometimes it borders on myths. Let's compare, there are substantial differences. And please, it's not good to forget the differences. I should at least say a few words about the security of the Czech Republic from my current position. I am quite inclined to say this, but it is precisely because such expressions are extremely sensitive and, above all, because they are often interpreted in some way afterwards. I just want to say what you seem to know. There are, of course, standard security mechanisms in the interests of defense of the state and then there are standard alliance mechanisms. I can assure you that no special stages have been activated or there is no reason for them. At the same time, I would like to assure everyone that Article 5 has not been cancelled... There. And I'll be correct and I'll be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u17	Thank you to the Minister and with another factual request from Minister Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u18	It's just something, because I have to respond to some things right now, I only have two minutes. [[He continues to speak faster, louder and with gestures.]] I would like to say that I had a big speech here in this House when Kosovo was being discussed. I was talking here about what questions Masaryk asked when he was considering whether the Čech, Moravan, Slovák would be able to manage a separate state, whether they had the political capacity, whether they would have the economic capacity, whether the state would be viable. I have asked similar questions here in the House with regard to Kosovo, and I have given great doubt that on the basis of the principle of the existence of a large minority, a separate state should arise. And I said it was a mistake. I said it over and over again, and I didn't agree. Just as I will say that I did not agree with the way the border parts of the Czech Republic were separated in 1938. And so I say, in the case of Crimea, what I do not agree with is what happens. Who's lying in their pockets? Because it happened to us, it could happen to others? I don't agree with it all the time, I call my colleague Jard Foldyn. And I always say that this principle is destructive. And I'm not changing that opinion! I have the same opinion! But because someone's goat died, I'm supposed to tell them to die, too? What kind of thinking is that, I ask! We can't think like that! That means, I say my opinion is consistent, and I insist on it all the time! So no lying in your pocket! I'm just begging myself!! And the other thing. That's what I'm saying when Vojtěch Filip got off here. It is not true that there is no committee of inquiry investigating what is happening. The Minister of the Interior, the SBU has appointed a commission of inquiry. I'm constantly interested in the results of the committee. So let's just say the rules exactly! The Orthodox Church, its representative said, supported Majdan. So does the Greek Catholic Church, which regularly serves us at Mass. I don't know the rabbi's statement, but I can tell you the situation is more complicated! I'm afraid of the real sector of Mr. Jaroš, etc. I know there are demons who are coming back to life. They're very dangerous, those demons! But let's not simplify it!!!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u19	Thank you, Minister. Now - I will ask President Schwarzenberg for a moment more - with a factual remark by President Stanjura. [[stands ready near the pitch]] Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to remind you that our President has already said this and to support the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Government of the Czech Republic. I say this as a representative of the opposition because I don't think there's room to play a domestic or intra-party battle in such a serious situation. We - I was four years old at the time, so I don't remember, but a generation of my parents told me - we know exactly the words that are being repeated now - invitation letter, protection of interests, occupation, stay of troops... We've seen it before. And who better to say that than we who have experienced it as a nation! And it really scares me which performances in this difficult debate have reaped the greatest applause so far. It really scares me. And those who are so mountainous and defending Russia's position are looking for some cheap parallels and want to cloud this debate, divide it into many angles, so let us answer the question of how the referendum in Sudeten would have turned out in 1938 if, in some part of Czechoslovakia, they had announced a referendum on joining the German Empire. How would that referendum go? Maybe the numbers on that support would be very similar to the numbers we've been reading since Sunday. Unfortunately, it is true that our colleague, a member of our parliament, shines on it and says to them: I don't really care who invited me there, I don't care what happened there. I was just checking to see if these people voted yes. Well, I don't doubt the people who voted yes put the ticket there. There's no debate about that at all. I would ask if the Foreign Minister could answer the question of what position the Czech Government will be in these difficult negotiations tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. [[The President seems to draw attention to the time - it is not understood because the President and the speaker speak for a while at the same time.]] ... And I can say that he can count on the support of the opposition, at least part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u21	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Plzák, and then President Schwarzenberg, with the right of priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have been instructed by my party colleague, watch out for the parallels. I heard the parallel here for the Sudetes, but I can see even more parallel. Consider that, at the end of World War II, the Soviet army liberated the territories of former Czechoslovakia, then Zakarpatsky Ukraine. And I see the biggest parallel to today's Crimea. There was just foreign military power, under her dictation a referendum was made. And this area, which historically never belonged to Ukraine, joined the Soviet Union. I would like to ask, historically, to learn: Who then protested? Who was riding for our interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u23	Thank you. And one more factual point from Mrs Kateřina's Konečná. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, let me actually ask my colleague Stanjura through the President: How would the referendum result in the division of Czechoslovakia? Do you think you could really do that if you asked people what they wanted?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u25	Thank you for keeping time. And President Schwarzenberg has the floor with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u26	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the very comprehensive report he has submitted to us regarding the situation in Ukraine. This is certainly not an easy situation. And there seem to be some pretty interesting phenomena here. When I hear the KSČM here rocking against revolutionary changes, I find it quite amusing. They've always celebrated all the revolutions in the world, and this time, when this revolution is being done against a very corrupt president of Ukraine, suddenly they're offended and require the legitimacy of the corrupt regime. But let's leave these notes rather for the amusement of all listeners. In fact, we see a very serious situation ahead of us. There are historians who claim that the 20th century was the shortest since it began in 1914 and ended in 1989. I have the impression that we are approaching a similar state, that the 21st century begins, yes, again in 14 and that the period between 1989 and 2013 was an exceptional period of peace and rule of law in Europe, which has now ceased. [[12.40 hours]] Don't let them bother me because I forgot about Kosovo. I remember Kosovo very well, but I remind you that before the United States and their allies attacked Serbia at the time, she tried hard as the state Secretary Albrightová, who still thought, because she speaks Serbian, that she would make the Serbian president understand that she could not continue to drive Albánec out of Kosovo. And only after a long and unsuccessful act, yes, it was attacked without the Security Council's approval, which I do not approve of at all that this attack was, I did not approve of it at the time, but it was a really different situation. At first, she tried for a really long time to stop the process of negotiations in Kosovo, the expulsion, and to come up with some compromise, which unfortunately, due to the stubbornness of the Serbian President, has failed. But now we have a really different situation. Without a single meeting with the Ukrainian government or with the Ukrainian party, Crimea was occupied and separated from Ukraine and Russia has already accepted it as part of it. It's just an anex of foreign territory. This will, please, end the period when we could count on Europe to respect international law, respect for peace. The power will simply take on its demands, and everyone will retreat before that. If we accept this approach, we must not be surprised if the 21st century is even worse than the 20th century. In the 20th century, yes, it also backed back from violent regimes and the result was terrible. I warn you about this, and I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister has expressed a clear view that we cannot retreat. I confess that I am somewhat of a different opinion with regard to sanctions. A robber doesn't volunteer his prey, I've never seen that before. Only strong economic pressure can force Russia to at least back down. Without that, they will be as happy with the dandruff as they were in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which they took possession of a few ten years ago. I'd like to point that out. And then he'll continue in some other country where the Kreml wants to control it. We are in a very dangerous situation when we admit that injustice is once again ruling in Europe, that powers are more entitled than other states, that powers can be robbed of its territory by smaller states, the neighbouring state can conquer. If we admit this, let's not be surprised when it comes to us, too. I also remember that in the 1930s Czechoslovak politicians thought Hitler would be satisfied with the anšlus and leave Czechoslovakia alone. It was a big mistake. Munich, the cast of the rest of the Czech countries, the announcement of the Slovak race, and the Second World War began already in autumn. These parallels are not in vain. It's always when evil retreats when violence subsides. That is why I know that certain sanctions, if declared against Russia, and it seems inevitable, will cost us too, will certainly cost Europe and the Czech Republic. Of course, the economic results will be smaller. It's just a fight for freedom that's worth something. But freedom, ladies and gentlemen, has never been cheap. Freedom must have always been sacrificed, and as long as we are able to defend freedom, but also freedom for other European countries, only by material sacrifices, not by blood, then we are to thank the Lord. Freedom and independence in no century are safe. They must always defend themselves, also in this 21st century. But as I say, yes, it may cost us considerable money, and let us be happy if it costs us only money and not blood. But if we allow evil to continue, it will end again by paying with blood. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u27	Thank you to President Karel Schwarzenberg. And I also have a note of President Petr Fiala's priority right. I'm sorry, Mr. President of the Dawn House Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u28	Thank you for the floor. I was more likely to perform with the technical staff after the appearance of the President of the House of Jan Hamáček, but now that it's done like this, there's nothing I can do. However, I no longer want to comment on the situation in Ukraine, because there has already been enough said here, much will still be said and nota bene, the situation will certainly change at any moment. But where I want to turn the attention of the government is back to what Jan Hamáček said, what my colleague Filip also said, so that we should pay great attention to the concerns of Czech citizens living in Ukraine. These people have an unfortunate experience with Ukrainian nationalism. Today, they point to an increase in crime, banditism, especially in Western Ukraine. This growth of violence is caused by radical armed groups claiming the legacy of Štěpán Bandera. It is impossible to ignore the concerns of our compatriots who have this experience in the form of Nazism from World War II. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in the context of the anti-Russian position of the Czech Republic, we are not in the same position as these pure Nazis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u29	I thank Mr Radim Fial for his comments, and we will continue to be duly signed up for the debate. Mrs Fischerová has the floor, Mr Marek Ženíšek will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u30	Mr President, thank you for your word and I will say in a calm voice here - I am waiting with humility from 13. 2. to join the general debate, and I will also say that I have already prepared completely different observations from the last situation in Ukraine. Since then, I have been monitoring the development of the situation mainly in Crimea along with you, and I mean all of you, because this is really a matter that concerns all of us. Ukraine is not beyond our horizon and it is a big country. Many, even our ancestors, had roots there, and many people from Ukraine live in our republic. I've been to Ukraine, I've been there twice. I was delegated there by the official institution, the Council of Europe, even as mayor once, then in our parliamentary delegation of the Council of Europe. And I know many of the MPs of Ukraine, but also from the Russian Duma. So I confess that I'm communicating with them because it concerns all of us. This is particularly the case, I will say, with ordinary citizens in Ukraine. And that's important, that didn't fall so much here, but really the people who live there, so we don't really realize what they're going through. We realize that, but not so consistently. As I listened to all my previous speakers, I am very pleased that Mrs Miroslava Němcová, as the petitioner, has put this on the agenda. I am also very pleased that we have officially returned to this place today since 13 February, but I must say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as I also watch all his trips to Brussels and the premiere meetings and the like, so it is a good thing that our Republic is claiming this and that we are not standing idly, but that we are really taking certain steps. [[12.50 hours]] In the meantime, I've been watching social media today, so there are comments about today's outputs. Really, people care. This is important that many of our citizens are really interested in this. They're even calling me through it, because it's impossible to underestimate this situation across Ukraine. And while I've been listening to each other's fights here, I think it's necessary not to debate which side is right, but what our national interests are. And what tools we're going to use to do that. I believe that the Foreign Minister will still answer the questions that have been addressed here today. It is also important for us to preserve Ukraine as a zone between Russia and the European Union. I think this is a very important point of view. I also followed the meeting of the UN Security Council, which was held here on 15 March. Council of Europe in Strasbourg on 14 March. And I think that we as the Czech Republic can do nothing on our own, that we really need to be part of these very things, I will say, by alliances at the same time, we do not now have a membership in the Security Council, we are not there now. It was said that veto law was used there, but we are also members of the Council of Europe, the European Union. So together to promote and defend interests so that Ukraine is resolved as peacefully as possible. To conclude, this has already been done here by Mrs Němcová and also by President Fiala, that the Civil Democratic Party will certainly agree, as we are following the Czech Government's procedure, with such hard procedure and representation of the Czech Republic in the interests of the people of Ukraine. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u31	Thank you, Mrs Jana Fischerová. The words will be taken by Mr. Marek Ženíšek. After that, I'm gonna call a lunch break and a meeting of the Organizing Committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that President Vladimir Putin must, to some extent, smile a little while at the moment when watching today's debate. For one thing, we see here on the air that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not actually have the support of all his fellow party members during his meetings and actions. First, the debate, as I can follow it, is slipping into analyses of whether or not the referendum corresponds to international law. It slips into a wrong comparison with Kosovo or the situation in the Balkans and completely misses the fundamental and essential issue, and that is that one state has enriched itself with another territory at the expense of another state. All the more I am pleased to be able to say here, and it has already been said here by some of my previous speakers that - although as an opposition Member - I very much welcome the steps taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, his position on the matter and, in particular, his clear statement. And the bust or the diction he's doing here. On the other hand, I am not quite sure whether his position is shared by most members of the Czech Government, including the Prime Minister. I am really very pleased that there is probably, and I firmly believe, even though I am not quite sure, after some outputs, that we agree here that the action in Crimea is contrary to international law. I am also very pleased to agree with the Minister of Foreign Affairs that Putin is an unreliable, unpredictable partner and that he is considering the intensities of the last century. In short, and well - expanding its territory at the expense of another state, it is simply a policy that is the domain of the past and even greater past, the 19th century. This morning we had a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, where the Prime Minister was also present. As mentioned above, questions were asked about the next path of the Czech government, respectively. what will be the steps of the Czech government. Of course, we all want what has been said here that the best solution is a diplomatic solution, a political agreement. But if this option fails, I ask what other solution, what is the position of the Czech Government, what will be promoted on the European Council by the Prime Minister on Thursday and Friday. I would very much like you to perform as you did here in the Chamber of Deputies, as you did in the Council of Ministers. I would very much like you to convince the Prime Minister to do so on the European Council, just as strongly and clearly as you did today. I would also like you to approach your colleagues - Italy, the Netherlands, in the same way, in a forceful and clear manner. It is understandable that these countries are probably not as worried about Russian aggression as the Czech Republic or the country of the Visegrad Four. Who else should promote a strong and clear position than the Czech Republic, given its experience, its historical experience and what has already been said here? And if, for example, you followed President Putin's speech well yesterday, there were several very clear sentences that I believe to mean at least thinking that the threat already exists for every citizen of justice. The Russian Federation has long had in its foreign security concept the designation of the West as an enemy or a potential enemy. The statements that he had never understood the independence of post-Soviet countries as some long-term, what the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned here, that it was just some short-term issue and that those countries were stolen from Russia were clear indications of the need to at least consider and talk and discuss what could happen next. I therefore ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the question has already been asked here - because the Prime Minister answered that question this morning in a very evasive way when I asked him what the next step will be for the Czech Government - whether we will be among those countries that will, for example, enforce economic sanctions if the situation so requires. The Prime Minister replied to me that he would first defend the national interests of the Czech Republic and that only first he had to calculate it on the basis of analyses whether the economic sanctions would be advantageous or disadvantageous for the Czech Republic, and on that basis he would decide. I fear, even if it is a perfectly legitimate procedure, it is at least some strategy and thanks for it, although I do not agree with it, but that such a perception of national interests is a poor practice and in the long term can be avenged by the Czech Republic. As some of my previous speakers have said here, simply trying to settle the situation and confronting an aggressor always costs something. So we all want a diplomatic solution, yes. But I ask if the sanctions to date are not successful, or if part of the sanctions are not successful, there is likely to be an extension of the list of people who will be prevented from accessing the European Union's land, so if this situation, as the Prime Minister said this morning, does not sort of resolve itself until then and will not calm down, what will be the position of the Czech government and, therefore, whether we are already considering the next steps which, of course, involve economic sanctions. So that's a question I'd like to know the answer to. [[13.00 hours]] At the same time, I would like to make a motion for a resolution at the end of my speech, which I will then forward to the rapporteur. The motion for a resolution is - and it is out of these concerns, where I am not sure that the entire government shares the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to strongly enforce consistent measures against the Russian Federation at all EU summits, including horizontal economic measures, which will lead to the end of the aggression of the Russian Federation towards the sovereign state of Ukraine. The imperial claims of the Russian Federation on Ukrainian territory are understood by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a potential threat to the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, which has been a Soviet satellite for decades. Defence of the sovereign Ukrainian territory guaranteed by international treaties is therefore also a defence of the security and sovereignty of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u33	I shall inform you, then, that you will have to repeat this in a detailed debate. Thank you. No other colleague will be invited to the speaker's desk because it's 13 o'clock. I am declaring a lunch break that the members of the Organising Committee will meet no later than 13.05 at the meeting of the Organising Committee. I will then ask the applicant's representative, the MPs, to tell them at 14.30 how long this item will be suspended, because at 14.30 we start with another fixed point, and therefore we do not have the opportunity to decide on the continuation at 14.30. So much for this thing. Thank you. I'm declaring lunch break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-003-055.u34	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, it is 14.30 pm. Welcome after lunch break. We have a fixed point number for this afternoon.
