ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 72/ - second reading The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government will be made by the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Marian Jurečka. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u2	Good morning. Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u3	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to interrupt you for a moment. Colleagues and colleagues, we're discussing the law, I'm asking for your attention and silence. In case you have some things to discuss, go deal with them in the machine. Thank you for understanding. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u4	Thank you. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to adapt Czech food law to EU regulations, in particular to the new regulation on food labelling. At the same time, changes are made to improve consumer awareness, increase food safety and effective monitoring of the food market. The proposed proposal contains in particular adaptation to the directly applicable EU legislation, in particular adaptation to Regulation 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, on the provision of food information to consumers. Further adaptation of terminology according to EU regulations. Improving consumer information. The scope and manner of indication of data for unpacked foods is determined, e.g. details of the manufacturer's address or, in the case of food types to be determined by implementing legislation, the quantity of the main ingredient. A new obligation is introduced for food business operators who accept specified foods in the Czech Republic from another EU Member State or third countries, to inform the supervisory authority of their arrival. Food species will be determined on the basis of a risk analysis by implementing legislation. A new information obligation is introduced for food business operators whose sales revenues exceed 5 billion. CZK for the financial year, visible and legiblely make available on entry to the store list of five countries which have the largest share of sales. Increase in the maximum penalty rate and placing on the market of foodstuffs which do not meet the requirements for correct labelling or qualitative parameters. Maximum sanctions are increased from 3 miles. CZK 10 million, for the placing on the market of food that is not safe, the maximum penalty has been 50 million since 2008. Crowns. The Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies closed the discussion of the Government Bill at its 8th meeting on 6 May 2014 and recommends that it be approved by the Chamber of Deputies as amended by the amendments adopted. These amendments concern, in particular, the distribution of agricultural and health resources and the competences of supervisory authorities. Gestures relating to food, i.e. The issue of food supplements, additives, flavourings, enzymes, health certificates, enriched foods and novel foods is transferred from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Health remains a source of food for infant formulae and diet foods for special medical purposes. This transfer will ensure the unification of gesture over food under one office, thereby simplifying and making all processes more effective in relation to supervisory authorities and, in particular, food business operators. As regards competence, the amendment to exercise supervision will be granted access to the application of the requirement of food law in order to ensure, first and foremost, the protection of the health of the final consumer. The supervisory authorities shall cooperate with each other in accordance with the requirements of the supervisory authority and coordinate their controls in such a way as to prevent the emergence of a new administrative burden. The competence of supervisory authorities in the area of the exercise of supervision in the provision of catering services will be assigned as follows: Public health authorities will check the requirements of food law and the Public Health Protection Act in all catering services and will continue to identify in all catering services the causes of health damage and the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases. In addition, this supervision will be strengthened by the supervisory authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture, in particular as regards the safety, quality and origin of raw materials and food. The State Veterinary Administration will check the input materials of animal origin in all catering services operations. The national agricultural and food inspection will monitor compliance with the requirement of food law in all food services operations. This is a compromise solution reached at the meeting of the Chairman of the Agricultural Committee with the Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Health and Chief Hygiene of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u5	Thank you, Minister. At first reading, we ordered this proposal to be discussed by the agricultural committee, and the Health Committee has taken an initiative to discuss it. The committee resolution was distributed as House prints 72/1 to 6. I now ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik, take the floor. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Dear Government, Madames and Gentlemen, the Minister here has informed very much about the entire development of the press. I'd like to confirm, and mine. even to dispel a certain media mist, which is very important about this bill, it is a fundamental change in food law, it is indeed a matter that affects each of us from the cradle to the grave, so I would like to dispel the media doubts or mist that has been, confirming that there has been an agreement on the issues that have, unfortunately, been published here more than was healthy, because there has been talk about things that have not yet been completed, they have not yet been brought to an end. I would like to say that the agreement that was mentioned here by the Minister is an agreement of the maximum possible compromise. That this is what I, as rapporteur, have requested from the outset, means that the relevant ministers or the relevant ministries and the Chamber of Deputies or the Chamber of Deputies agree. the agricultural committee of the Chamber of Deputies, and subsequently the Chamber of Deputies will very likely accept this agreement. It is an agreement that makes us as the Chamber of Deputies, virtually. the agricultural committee does not force us to proceed in a way that is with whom, but vice versa, to decide on material in a factually arranged manner according to good knowledge and conscience that it is perfectly okay. I'm here to confirm that I'm here as the rapporteur, who, by the way, has been following this topic since the beginning of its creation. In the year, I believe, 1996 we started discussing the initial 100th, so I quite know the history, so I want to say with full conscience here that we can confirm this agreement as the Chamber of Deputies. The agricultural committee didn't have an easy situation. He's been discussing issues in particular, I think, three times - I don't know, I know three times. We have revised the resolution of the agricultural committee twice. This in itself shows how serious the topic is, how serious the changes are, because otherwise the agricultural committee, as we know, will always agree more easily and more quickly. However, as the Minister has said about the resolution of the agricultural committee, namely the 40th resolution of the agricultural committee, this is true, we will no longer revisit it and you will have it available in the relevant press 72/1 to 6. [[11.10 hours]] Given that this is a very complex topic, as the latest version was adopted, there was a question of certain necessary legislative technical adjustments that were brought about by the changes. I've prepared them, virtually. To be fair, I've had them prepared by legislation, and in the detailed debate that I'm reporting to, I'm going to read it on the microphone, the legislative technical modifications. So much for the state of discussion of Parliament's press 72 at second reading. I thank you for the patience you have listened to me with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u7	Thank you. Just for the record, I want to ask whether you will sign up for the debate electronically or should I sign you up. Whether it's proper or with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u8	Mr Vice-President, it will be a proper application. And I said I would join the general debate that I am now reporting to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u9	Okay, thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Jiří Štětina, to take the floor. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u10	Hello. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that both the Minister and the rapporteur have made clear their views on this law, which has already been going very dramatically since the last parliamentary term, because it has threatened that the hygiene service will be deprived of its competences, which would certainly not be good. I'm not going to comment on this any further, because I think both gentlemen have made that very clear. They have stated that competence will be maintained both by agriculture and by health care. After discussing yesterday at the Health Committee, I can say that the Health Committee is in agreement with this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I open up a general debate, I have two note cards here. First of all, Mr Stanislav Polčák apologizes from 11 a.m. and further apologizes to Mrs Olga Havlová on 7. 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Those are note cards. I am now opening a general debate when I am the first to have Mrs Olga Havlová properly signed up. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, I would like to present the amendment that I tabled on this law under the number of House document 678. It was negotiated with representatives of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and, since it was not even clearly rejected by the Committee on Agriculture, I decided to insist on this amendment. My intention is to establish a new principle on the basis of which fines would be imposed for infringements of the obligations of food vendors. The problem is long-term, and it has not been satisfactorily solved so far. One way is to fine hypermarkets strictly enough. It's a very delicate subject. Very often we hear about the non-crap happening in supermarkets. Corrupt foods or foodstuffs are sold after the date of minimum durability. How food is stored badly or maybe it is mislabeled. I'm not saying it doesn't happen with small vendors. The stone of injury is that the fines for these offences are set according to a bad principle. In essence, for each offence, the maximum amount of the fine which the controller may impose shall be fixed. The fine ceiling is the same for every salesman, whether it's a small private man or a multinational chain, whether it's one small shop or a network of hundreds of stores. Always the same line. For example, the same fine of up to one million crowns threatens small and large for poor food labelling. For a small salesman, it can be vanquished, but the big one can't even tell. Yes, the size of the business is taken into account, but the principle of calculating the fine is set today so that the little one always hurts more. The highest total fine was received last year by the business chain Tesco, a total of CZK 8.3 million. At the same time, he received the highest fine for selling unmarked horse meat. Tesco has an annual turnover of billions and up to two trillion crowns worldwide in the Czech Republic. Clearly, a fine of eight million is quite negligible for such a chain. On the contrary, a seemingly small fine, which is not supposed to be liquidated under the law for a small seller, will cause him great difficulty, such as a lack of funds to buy more goods. Just for your information, a detailed overview of the fines of multinational companies just came out today at www.aktualne.cz. Therefore, I will propose that fines for administrative offences on food sales be calculated as a percentage, respectively. permile from sales sales. The aim is for fines to be fair, for everyone to suffer equally. The principle of the proposal is that, for example, for poor labelling of foodstuffs, a fine can be fined up to two million annual worldwide turnovers. For a great one, it could mean thousands of millions, for a small one in the tens of thousands. It's gonna be a whip not just for a salesman who's gonna be the same length for everyone. But what I mostly promise from this is better and safer food in Czech shops, and thus greater protection for our consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u13	Thank you, Madame. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Petr Bendl. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also a few words about this standard, with which I myself have also spent several months in the past, because the main body of this bill has been prepared by the Nečasův government and was discussed at the time when the quality of food was really, and I hope that in the future it will also be a serious topic for the meetings of the Chamber of Deputies and the Ministry of Agriculture, or the government, and that projects such as the Food Portal for the laundry and the like will be created, so that we do our utmost to make the quality food system fall to whom the counters were simply available to people who would want it. I am very glad that the government respected the proposals that were there, the improvement of the customer's information that we prepared there, at the same time increasing the possibility of granting sanctions in the case of misleading the customer, which appears more and more, and I also agree with what my previous speaker said here in that it is necessary to take account of whether it is a company, so that the fine is not liquidated in terms of their turnover, so that at least at that first stage it takes into account that someone has some turnover. In the second phase, if this happens repeatedly, let's say the same comment from the supervisory authorities, then I can imagine that it is going to go to the higher floors, so it can be the result of my saying eventually liquidation, if someone is repeatedly deceiving the customer, they will not learn from the punishment he originally received. I am glad that the imposition of the so-called game control obligation has also been resolved, the delegation of this competence to the State Veterinary Administration. I do not agree with the rapporteur that the consensus between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health is in order. I think, but it's a matter for the government coalition that you didn't fulfill the coalition agreement, but it's, I'll say, a matter for the government coalition that you wrote something in a government statement and something else in this bill, and you call it a compromise. [[11.20 hours]] Okay. I understand that it is your business, but I am convinced that at least the Minister of Agriculture should fulfil the promise of his representatives, who said at the meeting of the Agriculture Committee, and that they will tell us how much it will cost, the delegation of powers to the State Veterinary Administration, because hygiene has said that he will not give a penny, even though some of the competences are transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture's Food Department, and there have been public repeats, and it has been demanded by the Chairman of the Agricultural Committee at the committee's meeting, and it has been promised that this amount will fall by how much we will cost to the Ministry of Agriculture's Ministry of Agriculture, actually in general, because it will simply not be financially neutral. What I have a problem with in the long run, and I have said it here at first reading of the bill, is that we are making up some competences beyond the European Union's responsibilities, which are uncontrollable, some bureaucratic things that I think are redundant and not related to the quality of the food as such that the state should take care of. We are going as if in a number of ways that we have criticized in the past, and are criticized by a number of Members who are sitting in the Chamber of Deputies today, that the state is making up what Europe is about, excesses, and we are also witnessing this in this bill, where it wants and promotes a government coalition, that the chains will be published by the five largest, I will say, the countries with the greatest turnover, or where the goods come to us, and it is if I do not say it uncontrollable, because it will be tens of thousands of items in which someone will say where this item comes from, but good, but I am curious to know who will recount it to the Ministry of Agriculture or to those inspectors, but who will possibly sanction it if it is not true, what they will say, and if it is to say something good at all. I think that if the state continues to put pressure on quality and if it supports domestic production by other means, and the Minister of Agriculture really has a whole range of resources, we do not need to rush into things that are beyond, I will say, legislation requiring the European Union and which are unnecessary, uncontrollable and essentially unsancionable, because this law does not talk about this at all. But what I consider to be a much bigger problem than the fact that the government coalition wishes to knit a whip, to put in the law something that is uncontrollable and unsancionable, but then the problem is affecting, or virtually. concerning the main food ingredient as such, in particular those unpacked. There I expect problems to arise in the future, and they will relate especially to those small and medium-sized food producers, but also to the larger ones. If you take only ordinary breads, the Czech specialty that everyone will be obliged to start marking there, or in meat products they will have to label the main ingredient, it will simply cause problems for the future. And that's where I expect it to stand in some ways, perhaps even against small producers and medium-sized food producers. We've been discussing this a lot. Determining the main component, what the main component is, and so on, it's going to be a problem for the future. This has been brought to the attention of individual NGOs in the discussions that we had at the level of the agricultural committee, and I would agree with them, and I fear that we should not pour out the bathtub and the baby. The last thing I will say about this discussion and the experience of the bill: I consider it scandalous and it is rather towards the Minister of Health, not the Minister of Agriculture, that the Deputy Minister refuses to meet with Members of the Committee on Agriculture or any Members on a subject directly related to his department. I consider this to be scandalous, and I hope that this is not something that should be repeated in the future. Or if it's the style of government, then God be with us and the evil be gone! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u15	Thank you. I have here an application for a factual remark from Mr Kováčik. So, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must respond because this calls for the argument that Mr Ex-minister Bendl here used, but no hard feelings. I'm glad he doesn't agree with me, because that would be suspicious if the right would agree with the left. The bread, which Mr. Bendl spoke of in an almost scary way, is not in the picture at all. There's no food, there's food. The difference needs to be realized. Moreover, it will address the relevant sub-legal standard, which will certainly not talk about bread, but will talk about the fact that the customer - indeed, the customer, the consumer, it is, not about any Europe, that it commands us or does not command us, it is not. This is about how we can make sure that customers are protected from cheating, etc. etc. The customer has a right to know if the sausage contains meat or not, if I cut it very short. As far as the cost requirement is concerned, the notification of the costs. Of course, every standard that is adopted here must also have some part of it, at least in the explanatory report, a message of how much it will cost, or whether it will have some cost for the state budget or not. Yesterday morning on the Committee on Agriculture, we agreed with the Deputy Minister that such information would be provided to the Chamber of Deputies by the third reading at the latest. So here we're reaching the open door a little bit. And the last one. I am glad that the powers of supervisory authorities have been maintained, and from this place I want to thank both the health service and the State Veterinary Administration and the State Agricultural and Food Inspection that their duties are doing well, honestly that, thanks to their work, there has been no serious food problems lately, except for the methane, and it is not their fault. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u17	Thank you. Another, with a factual remark, I have Mr Petr Bendl's enrollment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u18	I'm talking about the response to the rapporteur. As for breadcrumbs - let's hope that under the law, this will be resolved seamlessly. So far, I haven't had the experience of communicating, and I haven't had any good promises about something going on. And I don't think I'm gonna be alone on the farm committee if someone touches their conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u19	Thank you. In agreement with Mr Štětina, I delete it and then Mr Hovorka is entered properly into the discussion. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, I am, of course, pleased that there has been an agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, but I would like to say here that I cannot identify with such a serious issue. The law originally concerned a specific matter and what was then tabled in Mrs Balaštíková's amendment is a fundamental change in competence. And in my view, this House should not proceed in this way to meet the Committee of Agriculture three times and adopt such fundamental changes in the competences of supervisory authorities. [[11.30 hours]] I'll allow myself to comment on that. Food and nutrition are important and generally recognised health determinants. All other circumstances related to food production and distribution, as well as their further processing and consumption, are also important for human health. It is not possible for the Ministry of Health to pay attention to all aspects of this issue. This is why the Ministry of Health welcomes the cooperation and assistance of other entities. It would certainly be a mistake if cooperation resulted in restrictions on the competence of the Ministry of Health. Of course, it must be about strengthening and enriching the existing control mechanisms, the purpose of which is consumer protection, in order to increase their contribution and their explanatory capacity. As experience shows, the path to helpful cooperation is not easy. It requires some considerable personal commitment and understanding of the common objective, but it is necessary to clarify the division of labour, strengthen mutual awareness, preferably by creating an information system to which all cooperating entities have full access. Clarify common priorities and criteria for evaluation of cooperation, find common language, specify other possibilities of cooperation and develop it further together. As a result of the development of such cooperation and the acquisition of new additional information, the capacity of the sanitary service should be addressed and new possibilities and forms of operational measures aimed at food safety and quality should be opened and food conditions improved. Perhaps a joint commission could help formulate the principles of cooperation, the common use of results, draw attention to partial problems and propose the intentions of further action. People's health isn't just important to the Department of Health. It is an asset to individuals, families, organizations and all other ministries. Good cooperation is one of the main principles of European health policy, which is expressed in the Health 2020 programme, which was dealt with in detail by the Health Committee, as well as the essential condition for dealing with very complicated and difficult to solve the health problems of the present day. If cooperation could be well established between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, it could become a starting point for further similar cooperation. There is no doubt that the restorative approach has confirmed its advantages in addressing many health problems. The demanding training of health workers sometimes leads to the fact that the layman's view is inferior. However, it turns out that health affects all people and is influenced by many different circumstances, which often do not fall within the competence of the Health Department. That is why it is so important that the Ministry of Health goes beyond the traditional resort approach and develops cooperation with all those who can influence facts that affect people's health. It is therefore essential that the activities and competences of the Ministry of Health be supplemented and expanded and that new activities are established in the competence of other ministries that will be beneficial to human health. For example, obesity in children cannot be managed only by the recommendations of nutrition tablets and the provision of health services, but also by the development of children's sports activities, their education and their education, the improvement of family living conditions and the like. However, the Ministry of Health should adopt sensitive motivation and coordination. It must also be prepared for a form of decentralization, where certain competences will be transferred to regions and districts. Informal cooperation at regional and district level can often be more effective than the traditional administrative cooperation of central authorities. However, it turns out that the health literacy of individuals and institutions lies not only in the knowledge, but mainly in the interest of health, in the acceptance of adequate responsibility and in the ability and willingness to make decisions in everyday life so as to lead to protection and improvement of health. If good inter-ministerial and versatile food control is actually implemented, then it will be one of the important steps towards a well-needed path to health. The whole government has basic responsibility for people's health. It is therefore important for the Ministry of Health not only to focus on hospitals and individual health services, but to actively enter a broad health care system. It assumes that it will seek cooperation with other ministries and other bodies, not by resigning its competence, but by supplementing its health surveillance with other aspects that have not yet been adequately addressed. Of course, it is important that the Ministry of Health controls both food and employees in the premises and environment. Inspection of partial aspects, e.g. the origin of foodstuffs, delivery notes, etc., could be entrusted to other cooperating bodies. However, the culture of negotiation and cooperation is important. Once the conflicts of competence have bloomed, the entire outcome is at risk. When considering the new law, it should be decisive whether and to what extent a climate of mutual trust and real cooperation has been established. For example, it is important. mutual awareness and, where appropriate, joint training of workers. The Health 2020 programme highlights the frequent problems of such cooperation, e.g. in the financial field, the granting of fines, etc. It is not appropriate to respond to the rapid development of the situation by removing the Ministry of Health and Hygiene's competences, but by expanding them and by entering other bodies into the control process in those areas where the specific health issues are somewhat remote. A law which would accompany divisions between ministries must not be adopted. This would not lead to an improvement in the control activity, but to a disruption. If contradictions persist, the law should be withdrawn or not approved. The approval of a law that would strengthen the conflicts of competence in the coalition could only be welcomed by those who want to threaten the government. I will now touch on the brief developments that have taken place in the sanitary service, and I am sure that the people who work in the Health Committee know this very well. Over the past seven years, there has been a very significant reduction in the hygiene service in the area of budget and personnel. 4,000 doctors left the health service. Out of 6,000 doctors, 2,000 remain. There was a great effort to privatize the hygiene services laboratories. There has also been a merger of health institutions in previous years. The result is a decimated hygiene service - and now, in fact, this proposal further limits the competence of the sanitary service. Now I want to get back to what I started. I do not consider it appropriate that such fundamental changes in competences should be made by amendments, even if they eventually occur following the mutual agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to join you in a detailed debate afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u21	Okay, thank you. I have here, with a factual remark registered by Mr Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to assure my colleague Hovorka, as part of my factual or technical remark, that the agricultural committee has devoted such a long time to this issue in order to reach agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture. And what's on the table today is just reflecting on the mutual agreement so as not to degrade the competence of the sanitary service and to keep the sanitation service in the restaurant facilities overseeing how food is produced, how food is made, and all the things you've been talking about have been controlled. So I would like to assure you that we have met in the process of discussing all the organisations involved, either on the one hand or on the other hand. It was the Trade and Tourism Union, it was the Agrarian and Food Chamber, there were representatives of all the supervisory authorities concerned, both in the competence of the Ministry of Health and in the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture. Specifically, there was the Deputy Minister of Health and the Chief Hygiene, Mr Valenta, and the head of veterinary services, food inspection, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, and we donated really three agricultural committees before we reached this agreement. And the Minister of Agriculture said here that actually the final dot was made at my farm committee last week with the participation of the Minister of Health and Agriculture. I'd just like to repeat what was said here, or just so much to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u23	Thank you. I also have an application here with Mr Hovorka's factual comment. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I am glad that there has been an effort to find a mutual agreement, but I just want to say that the fact that the agricultural committee will meet three times and adopt a new amendment three times does not constitute a proper discussion of such a serious issue. The law originally dealt with something completely different, and from this point of view, I believe that even dealing with comments quickly with all the stakeholders concerned cannot replace the preparation of the law as it should be, and quality commentary procedures. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u25	Thank you. Another point of fact here is noted - Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u26	I must, Mr President, stand up for the agricultural committee because it is precisely because we wanted to respond to the current state of the negotiations, precisely because I, as rapporteur from the beginning of the discussion of this point, have insisted that the agreement be the result of both ministries, which is why we would rather come together three times and have always responded to the current state of the agreement than to neglect something and in that result it meant what Mr Hovorka is afraid of, that something would be imperfectly agreed and that it would cause some obstacles or defects in that follow-up control activity. I'd rather measure and cut three times than cry about what we've done again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u27	Thank you. One more factual remark from Mr Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u28	Thank you for the floor. I just want to put the whole House into question now, in general, without touching the agricultural committee or the health committee. In 2007, the Act on the stability of public budgets, the so-called Topolánkův Reform Package, was adopted here. Part of this proposal was also an amendment, which had 52 parties, and it included a fundamental change in pricing and payment of medicines. A fundamental change in competences that went from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance to the State Institute for Drug Control. And our health care is still struggling with that narrowly announced change, because there are still problems in this. I say: You consider what you have adopted to be the right and the best possible solution, but it cannot replace the standard legislative process and the commentary procedure that should be properly carried out. That's why I set an example here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we continue our negotiations, I have a note here, and today, from 12.30 pm, Mr Jiří Pospíšil apologizes for the meeting. With another factual remark, I have Mr Petr here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, very technically and briefly. In the intercom procedure, the Chamber of Commerce proposed to add to the law the definition of the terms "country or place of origin', taking into account the multiple occurrence of this concept in the proposed amendment. For example, in Section 7 (1) (5). The absence of a definition can cause legal uncertainty and interpretation difficulties. Place of origin - if this is the place where the goods were manufactured, where they were cut, where they were packed in a supply package, where unpacked food was packed and so on. In § 2 Basic terms I did not find terminus technicus country or place of origin. So I just allow myself to ask how the petitioner dealt with this reminder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u31	Thank you. I want to ask the petitioner whether he'll respond to it or not. Okay, so in the closing statement, the Minister will then comment. At this point, I do not see the participants in the general debate, so let me take a look, if that is the case. In that case, I am ending the general debate. Since there has been no motion for a vote, it is possible to open the vote and I am opening a detailed debate. At this point, we have two registered debaters. The first is Mrs Havlová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u32	Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, as I have already announced in the general debate, I would like to sign up to my new amendment under House press number 678, in its electronic form, in the new version of paragraph 11 relating to the resolution of the agricultural committee 72/6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u33	Thank you. Mr Šenfeld is another duly entered into a detailed discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u34	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I would just like to formally sign up for my amendment under number 743. I merely point out that my amendments concern bees. If anyone would like to take a closer look at the justification, I refer you to the document, the number I mentioned, 743. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u35	Thank you. I have one point of fact here and Mr Bendl has signed up with this. Is that a factual point? Proper login. Well, in that case, you'll have to wait, because I have two more properly logged in here. The first is Mr. Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u36	This time, not as rapporteur, but in a proper detailed debate, I want to read the legislative and technical proposals for the House of Press 72. I will, of course, hand over in writing to the screen, but it needs to be sounded on the microphone here. 1. in the last sentence of point 2, "2b and 2c' is replaced by "2 to 2c'. Reason: Repeal of footnotes No 2 to 2c, which are no longer present in the next text of the law. 2. In point 4, the words "Article 11 (4)'are replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b), Section 11 (b) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (5)'is replaced by 'Article 11 (5) '. Article 4 (1) (a) (c), § 11 para. Article 7 (7) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) and Reason: In § 11 para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2) (c) referred to in points (b) to (54), and must therefore be referred to as point (c). In Article 11, paragraphs 55 and 57, where paragraphs are renumbered, must therefore be deleted in point 4 before they are deleted and renumbered. 3. The last sentence of point 15 reads: "Notes No 3b and 3c are deleted, including a footnote reference.'; [[11.50 hours]] Reason: In § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) is also footnote 2. 3b, which does not appear in the next text of the law. 4. In point 17, the words "Article 3 (1) (a)'are replaced by the following: Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (b)'shall be replaced by 'Article 3 (3) '. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (d) and (e)."; Reason: In § 3 para. 5 letters are cancelled and remarked only in paragraphs 22 and 23; therefore, point 17 shall indicate the letter before their cancellation and renumbering. At the same time, it is necessary to make the proposed amendment, i.e. cancellation of the words "or raw material" also in the current script. (e) where this adjustment has been omitted. 5. In point 18, the words "Article 3 (1) (a)'shall be replaced by the words "Article 3 (1) (a) '. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (b) Paragraph 3 (b) is replaced by the following: Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (c)'shall be replaced by 'Article 3 (3) '. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (d), § 3, para. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (e) '. Reason: In § 3 para. 5 letters shall be cancelled and remarked only in paragraphs 22 and 23; therefore, in paragraph 18 they shall be indicated in the form before they are cancelled and remarked. 6. In the last sentence of paragraph 23, the words " shall be added, including a footnote reference'. Reason: In § 3 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (d) after remarking the title. (b) it would remain in the text a reference to footnote No 2 to the deleted footnote. 3e. It's almost over. Be patient. 7. At the end of point 30, the words "and the words "Commission of the European Communities' shall be replaced by the words "Commission of Europe'. Justification: The concept of the Commission of the European Communities is replaced by the term European Commission. In Section 3c, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The last sentence of the last sentence of this amendment has not been applied. 8. In point 43, the following is added at the end of the last sentence: ", including a footnote reference'. Reason: Although footnote 43 is deleted. 10, it is necessary to delete the reference to it, which remained in § 10 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. (a), initially, point (a). (b). And finally 9. The following point shall be inserted after point 86: "X. V § 16 para. 13 the words "Article 3 (1) (a)'shall be replaced by the words "Article 13 (3) '. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (d)'shall be replaced by 'Article 3 (2) '. Article 5 (b) is replaced by the following:". Other renumber points. Reason: In the draft law, in the amendments points 22 and 23 in Section 3 para. 5 the letters are deleted and the letters are renamed. This adjustment must also be reflected in the internal reference in § 16 para. 13. So much of the proposal for legislative technical adaptations, with the fact that, as I have already announced, I repeat, these amendments have been called upon by the adoption of proposals in the Committee on Agriculture and the need to adapt these proposals to the full text. None of the proposals for these legislative technical adaptations alters the meaning of the specific scope of the law and therefore fully fulfil the conditions for voting as legislative technical proposals. Thank you for your attention and patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Hovorka is now registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read one amendment, namely to the press 72/6 on paragraph 14 of the resolution on paragraph 65 in Paragraph 15 (1). 5 in the introductory part of the provision, the words "under crisis and" shall be deleted. A brief explanation: I believe that the process of food production and distribution itself is essentially critical and is linked to many health risks to the health of the population, and therefore, qualified supervision is absolutely necessary, which should limit health risks, and this is primarily the mission of the health service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u39	Thank you. Another duly applied for is Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have two suggestions. Both of them are trying to put out of the bill the legislation that goes beyond, I will say, European obligations or resulting from European Union legislation. Therefore, I propose to delete § 3d para. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure in question does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. I think it's obvious that it's unsanctionable and inconvenient and difficult to control. And my second suggestion. I propose to delete § 8 para. 1 Act for excessive bureaucracy and as well as going beyond the requirements of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, I am not registering any application for a detailed debate. This is the case, so I am ending the detailed debate. I want to ask whether the rapporteur or the petitioner will have the final word. So you have the final word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I would briefly like to respond to some of the issues that have been raised here in the discussion of this point. First of all, I would like to say that fines are not to be bullied by me. Fines and penalty systems are to be brought up and corrected. Therefore, I am convinced that extending and increasing the limit in cooperation with the proper functioning of the supervisory authorities and with the correct course of administrative proceedings can lead to the fact that we can really impose fines that, if someone repeatedly violates a thing in the case of foodstuffs, will really lead to them being so sensitive - and those above today make it possible for traders to really think about it very well. The question is, how much will it cost? The information came down here. I also plan during this year - and we are debating this with the Director of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection - to make it more effective, respectively. intensify the activities of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and we will look for tools including, where appropriate, internal resources within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. The question of the list of five countries that have the largest share of food. On the contrary, I think that this can be done very simply within accounting systems, and it is clear, readable, simple information for customers about how and from where they import the business chain or the food subject, and has an idea of how they support the domestic economy. As for the question raised to the place of origin, it is quite clear here. This definition of the country of origin is set out in European Regulation No. 1169 on the labelling of the origin of foodstuffs, so there is no need to argue at all whether or not the definition is clear. I would like to conclude with regard to whether it is entirely happy to make this amendment here. I am aware that every Member is a legislator, so it is up to him to do so. Of course, in an ideal state, if we had more time, we would have prepared this material in an inter-ministerial commentary procedure with all settlements. But I think that, in the case of this proposal, I have tried to make sure that the Ministry of Agriculture and our legislative department really strongly joins this issue so that we can have a good proposal here so that there are no mistakes. And I dare say this has been done. I think that the agreement that we were able to reach here in the Chamber of Deputies last week is also a good thing that the sanitation service has the same scope as it has been. I think that this compromise solution here, if what we agreed last week, that the supervisory authorities will cooperate, communicate with the control plan, that it can only be for the benefit of consumers, and it will not necessarily mean a higher administrative burden for business entities in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u43	Thank you, Minister. One more final word from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u44	Thank you for the floor. It'll be very short. In the debate, there have been, sometimes repeatedly, five colleagues, Members and Members. Everyone was sticking to the subject, which I find very positive. Questions from the general debate were partially settled by either the petitioner or the rapporteur on the spot. Five Members and Members also spoke in a detailed debate. They tabled amendments or legislative technical proposals. Mr President, at this point, I feel that everything that was to be said about the second reading of the amendment to the Food Act has been said, and I therefore think that we have ended the second reading, of course after your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u45	Thank you, rapporteur. I agree with you, so at this point, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, Minister and rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-002-004.u46	Good noon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Now we're going to talk about the point.
