ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u1	57. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes signed in Pristina on 26 November 2013 /German press 123/ - second reading The contract was to be submitted by the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. It will be presented by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. I will ask the rapporteur, Robin Böhnisch, to take the position at the rapporteur's table and ask the Deputy Prime Minister of the Environment to submit a proposal for the government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to represent the Minister of Finance for what poor forces will suffice. I'm glad I didn't have to represent him on the state budget yesterday, that would be more complicated. In order to reduce the tax burden on taxpayers and to exclude international double taxation, which takes place without tax agreements in international economic, commercial, but also cultural relations, causing a conflict of national tax laws, it is customary between countries to negotiate bilateral double taxation agreements. No such international comprehensive tax treaty is currently applicable in the mutual tax relations between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo. Neither the tax treaty with former Yugoslavia nor the tax treaty with Serbia and Montenegro apply. It is therefore a comprehensive tax contract which thus governs the taxation and exclusion of international double taxation of all possible types of income. This important contract will also contribute to an objective distribution of the right to tax on individual types of income between the two States, i.e. between the State of source of income and the State of its beneficiary. The contract was negotiated on the basis of OECD and UN model models and is based on the tax laws of both states as a standard and does not impose any other obligations on tax entities than those already contained in those laws. As all contracts of this type, this also provides for basic forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of both Contracting Parties. It therefore allows the settlement of disputes arising in the interpretation and implementation of the contract by exchanging information and coordinating the activities of the tax authorities of both States to limit the exclusion of possible tax evasion and fraud. At the same time, the treaty ensures the non-discrimination of Czech entities in Kosovo and will also increase the legal certainty of investors and other tax entities, particularly as regards the existence and level of their tax liability. At the same time, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you that on 23 April this year, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has already agreed to ratify this Treaty. The Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies also agreed to ratify the Treaty and the Treaty has already ratified Kosovo. On the basis of the above, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agree to ratify the Treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u3	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Robin Böhnisch, to justify the committee's resolution before the Chamber of Deputies, which has been delivered to you as House press 123/1. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So it is no secret that the ratification process in the House has been going on longer than is customary for contracts of a similar nature. However, already on 25 June at the 11th meeting of the House, the Foreign Committee expressed its views on this matter by recommending to the Chamber of Deputies the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes signed in Pristina on 26 November 2013, instructs the Chair of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. So much for an introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u5	Thank you. And since I want to join the debate, I will ask for an exchange of management of the meeting and report to the debate. I'm registering Mr. Foldyna's application. [[Vice-President Bartošek sits at the chair table]] Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to say that I have serious constitutional doubts about the ratification process for this treaty. I think they should have been dealt with by the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, given that the Republic of Kosovo is not legally recognised. Its recognition did not support enough states, i.e. At least one third of the UN states, and in this respect, it is therefore difficult to conclude a treaty with a non-existent state. [[12.00 hours]] Even in the Czech Republic, the ratification process has not been completed, because the ratification process is not only a government decision that did so during the reign of Mirek Topolánek at a strange meeting in Liberec, but it ends not with a vote in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, but with the appointment of an ambassador. Neither former President Václav Klaus nor current President Miloš Zeman did this, and we have no ambassador in the so-called Republic of Kosovo. In this respect, I would like to quote at least some of the things you can find on public servers, and that is the question of the current status of the so-called Republic of Kosovo. It is true that the administration of the UN and NATO ended up in this area of the former Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohije officially in 2008. The fact that there is a strong contingent of foreign advisors, I don't want to say military troops, is still true. But what is important is that in 2008, the UN General Assembly approved Serbia's request that the legality of Kosovo's declaration of independence be reviewed by the International Court in The Hague, which then stated whether international law had been violated or not. However, the very question does not change whether the state is recognised or not. Moreover, it is not clear what will happen in this territory, because both the representatives of Kosovo and, in particular, the representatives of Albania as a UN state are expressing themselves quite often that their aim is to unite all Albánec into one state, the so-called Great Albania. The fact that it contradicts the principles that were closed in 1975 in the Final Act in Helsinki may not remind me. But the problem is something else, whether it is matters that are directly involved in this or the activities of individual states. I remind you, at least, that the Kosovo Constitutional Court dealt with complaints that the second president of Kosovo Fatmir Sejdiu, contrary to the Constitution, also held the presidential post as President of the political party, which was banned in this territory, and then resigned as President in September. In the third round of the election, his successor was elected President of Behgjet Pacolli, Chairman of the Alliance Party for New Kosovo, who took up office on 22 February 2011, but opposition Members of the Democratic League of Kosovo and the Alliance for the Future of Kosovo questioned the candidate for the past, boycotted it and subsequently filed a complaint against the elections to the Constitutional Court, with the fact that the Congregation was not a quorum and some Members were intimidated before the third round. The Constitutional Court gave the complainants the truth in March and annulled the election! In this respect, it is therefore very unlikely that we would be able to change the state of business in this territory in any way, because our companies are protected by other agreements to prevent double taxation if they operate in this territory. I believe that this is not the time for ratification of this Treaty. If there is no other proposal that we do not make a greater international mess, then at least I propose that this item be interrupted if this item is not removed from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, which I would ask for after that point has been interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u6	Thank you. And since this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote. After the debate, okay. You have your word, Mr. Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u7	Thank you for your word. Mr President, government, my colleagues, this is about concluding a treaty with a state that does not exist from the point of view of international law. Although it is true that the Czech Republic recognised it in 2008, it does not exist from the point of view of international law. I will give you the justification I have to postpone this treaty and not discuss it at all. In 1999, the NATO pact, which we are members of, was bombed by then Yugoslavia in violation of international law, i.e. without the mandate of the UN Security Council. On this basis, a situation has been created that a peace treaty has been concluded to stop this bombing after 76 days. There was an agreement in this peace treaty that the UN would adopt a resolution. This resolution is called the Security Council Resolution 1244. Before I went to this microphone, I was looking at the UN website. This resolution applies, has not been repealed, and this Resolution 1244 guarantees the integrity of the former Yugoslavia and Serbia's successor state. In 2004, when the Republic of Kosovo was declared separatist locally, it was declared in Kosovo in violation of international law, contrary to the Helsinki Treaty, and that it was the Czech Republic and some states, and it is not a few, I note, I understand that, of course, they recognised it, it is an unprecedented fact that international law is destabilized. This is why Europe and the world are in the present situation, because destabilization has become a reason for us today to face the interpretation of international law, when we are on the brink of declaring war. I think that the Czech Republic, when we speak often about the legacy of the presidents at this time, we talked about the legacy of President Václav Havel, we signed up to the legacy of President Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, so we, the successors of the Czechoslovak Republic, continued the ideas of Czechoslovak President Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, who built this state with a Yugoslav passport in his pocket, cannot afford to dirty our hands the same way that the Czech government did at its 2008 exit meeting in Teplice, when, outside the framework of the programme, it humiliatingly adopted a resolution in Sudety on the fact that the Czech Republic abandoned ideas of the Czechoslovak state and Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk recognised this quasi-state, which, from the perspective of international law, is very unclear, according to my court, do not exist. I therefore recommend that we do not discuss and postpone this international treaty with this dubious entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Volný is reporting with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, although I can agree with Mr Foltýn and I understand him, there is nevertheless one fact that this Republic has accepted Kosovo, but what is more, it is trading with this Republic, and now we should probably pass on the political perspective. [[Foldynou - restlessness in the left side of the hall]] It's just business, and it's trouble. That is why the Ministry of Finance has submitted this contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u10	Thank you. Mr Robin Böhnisch and the Minister are now reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am in a rather pleasant luxury situation as a substitute rapporteur, that I am not emotionally biased either for or against this treaty. I am even one of those Members who, at the time of the Topolánkův Government, voted in favour of calling on the Government not to recognise the State of Kosovo. However, we are now in a situation where Kosovo is one of the countries of Czech development cooperation, where our development projects, where our companies operate, are being arranged for some comfortable environment in this country. If I have good information, this House has been through about 17 contracts with Kosov before without anyone noticing such a matter in this House. This contract was delayed in the foreign committee, we called on the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs several times, we learned a number of economic data about our cooperation and trade with Kosov. Well, as rapporteur, I'm also reminding you of these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u12	Thank you. Now the Minister has the floor. You didn't sign up with a factual remark? [[To the messenger. The Foldyns. Messenger. Foldyna points to a point of fact.]] In that case, you have priority, Mr. Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u13	I would like to point out to the rapporteur, my colleague, when he mentioned here that we have discussed this treaty 17 times, or any of the treaties, or the Kosovo issue, so I have spoken 17 times here, and 17 times I have pointed out that we should not tarnish our hands by damaging international law, that we should continue with the ideas of our first President Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk and Czechoslovakia, if we continue with these ideas. And I pointed it out 17 times, and it didn't go right 17 times, so maybe one day it'll pass. As long as I can stand here in this House, I will always point out violations of international treaties and, above all, violations of what is called friendship between nations. [[It burns very strongly.]] Because I would like to teach my colleague that it was Yugoslavia, it was a country that was always by the side of Czechoslovakia, it was Yugoslavia in 1938, where almost a hundred thousand volunteers claimed to fight the recognition of the Munich Agreement, the disgraceful agreement, the same agreement of the same type that today had deprived Yugoslavia of Kosovo! So I turn to you, my fellow Members, so that we are not called those who turn their backs on their friends at a difficult time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u14	Thank you. I have here a factual point with which Mr René Číp is reporting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u15	Thank you for the floor. I apologize for a certain voice indisposition, I have a cold, which is why I will be very brief. I remember that it was about two months ago that an extraordinary meeting was held here to sanction Russia with the fact that it was here for strict respect for international law. I would like to say that, in essence, the approval of this press is a completely flagrant violation of this international law, not only by disregarding the abovementioned Security Council Resolution 1244, but I believe that a democratic institution such as our Chamber of Deputies should not be committed - and here I stress the conscious and underline the conscious - disrespect or even the violation of this international act. Thank you, and I appeal to your conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u16	Thank you. Another point of fact - Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u17	Thank you for the floor. Let me make one more point of fact that I realized. In recent days, we have witnessed a huge discussion here about how the principles of morality and justice are being elevated to trade. I'm trying to do the opposite of that right now. This means that we are talking here about the legacy of Václav Havel and the principle of morality, human rights and rights in relation to trade with China, and today we are hearing arguments - we are breaking the principles of morality and justice in relation to trade, because now we are simply in good shape! So I would like to ask you, colleagues, that we have one morale, one principle and one approach. Not two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u18	Thank you, and now with priority rights, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief response. I understand the emotions of my colleague, Mr. Foldyna, are clear, he has long expressed himself in this way. I will also try to be objective, and let me just quote some facts, the question is whether we will take them into account. This has gotten a little crazy in some sort of disputation and legal, whether it's a step contrary to international law or not. Kosovo has been recognised by 108 Member States of the United Nations and 23 members of the Member States of the European Union - with the exception, therefore, of Spain, Cyprus, Greece, Romania and Slovakia. Although he is not a member of the UN, Kosovo's independence under the decision of the International Court of Justice in The Hague 2010, the declaration of independence was recognised as not contrary to international law. So many facts. The Czech Republic maintains diplomatic relations with Kosov through the Embassy in Pristina, and this treaty really has a purely economic character. There are dozens of Czech companies in Kosovo, the turnover between the Czech Republic and Kosovo is not dizzying, it is about 11 million euros a year, but there are still a number of Czech entities that we need to protect in this way. So, please, just the facts for the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u20	Thank you. Vice-President Filip is now duly entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u21	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that as far as economic interests are concerned, as Mr Volný here has said, these are protected by another agreement on investment protection, possibly preventing double taxation. Our companies will not be taxed twice because, of course, that territory is covered by the contract with Serbia, i.e. with the former Yugoslavia, it has not been abolished, it works, it exists. As far as development aid is concerned, of course, it does not depend on it, because we can also provide it in mandate areas, and we have done so, it is simply not a problem. So clearly, in this respect, the legal situation is clear. I'm here, Minister, quoting the International Court resolution in The Hague. This does not really mean anything other than that international law was not violated by the declaration of independence - the meter we take on it is the second thing. And please do not say in front of this House that we maintain diplomatic relations at embassy level when no ambassador from the Czech Republic has been appointed in Pristina. If there's a chargé d'affaires, there's a chargé d'affaires, but not an ambassador, because the chargé d'affaires is appointed by the Foreign Minister, the ambassador is appointed by the President of the Republic. And the ratification process under international law, according to the Czech Constitution, of course, ends with the appointment of an ambassador, and the President of the Republic did not - neither did Václav Klaus, repeat, nor Miloš Zeman. So, in this regard, the Czech Republic is not among those, if you will, one hundred and eight, as they say, states that have fully recognised the Republic of Kosovo, because none of the two presidents who should have made that final move. They must have had good reasons. And I apologize once again, in my opening speech I said it was in Liberec, it was really in Teplice, as my colleague Foldyna corrected me correctly. So in this respect, let me say that the approval of this Treaty is indeed contrary to Czech interests, because our economic interests are protected by another treaty, and we will, of course, make this step significantly worse not only in Serbia, but also in other countries such as for example. Croatia as a state of the European Union, such as Macedonia, which is in the adoption procedure, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, in an even more pronounced way, and in this respect, please feel the situation in the Balkans a little differently than it sometimes seems from the point of view of those documents that are on paper. And no wonder that Slovakia does not make such a contract, that Greece does not do it, and there are very good reasons for it both for the Slovak neighbor and Greece. I am convinced that it is not possible at this time to produce something that does not have the right legal basis under the Constitution of the Czech Republic!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u22	Thank you. I have two factual points here. First, my Member, Mrs Němcová, followed by Mr Benešík. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u23	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this contract is presented or should be submitted by the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. He's not here, he's excused. It is therefore presented by the Minister of the Environment. I want to thank him from this place, but I really mean it, for always being here. I think it expresses the seriousness of the Chamber of Deputies, only that, on the other hand, it may be suspicious that, given that all his ministerial colleagues have to work somewhere, he has nothing to do, because he can always take it all for them here. But that's at your discretion, Minister, how you'll handle it. But when I return, the first Vice-President of the Government will present this treaty. Part of the Members of this Government has a problem with it. This Treaty has both a foreign policy dimension and a financial dimension. Since neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor the Minister of Finance as a petitioner is here, I therefore make a procedural proposal for the House to suspend the negotiations of this treaty until the time of the presence of both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u24	Since this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote now and now. That means I'm going to check you all out before I do, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. We will vote on interrupting this point until the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance are present. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It is a 32 vote, and the Members present are 147, in favour of proposal 137. The motion has been accepted, and I am interrupting this point. [[Mr. Goldilocks is reporting for the floor.]] The point is interrupted and at this point only people with priority rights can perform. I'm sorry. [[Ambassador Zlatushka says he's the Secretary of State.]] If you don't mind me asking for a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u25	Mr President, I'm sorry, I applied before the vote. But the Czech Republic does not have a foreign minister. That condition is unfulfilled!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-009-057.u26	Okay, we'll fix it in the Steno Protocol. Yes, we have the Secretary of State. We will continue to discuss the next point and that is
