ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u1	57. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and some other laws /house print 288/ - first reading [[Mrs Cernoch is reporting for the floor.]] Madam, I ask you what you want to speak with, because I cannot let go of the facts, you have no right of priority. [[Mrs Cernochová: I do.]] Excellent, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u2	Madam Vice-President, I am the first Vice-President of the ODS, and at this point I am speaking for our club. I'd like to ask, because when the ČSSD colleagues came to us, that they wanted to set up the arms bill, and they wanted to put it on this Friday's program, we said yes, we don't have a problem with that. It's an international treaty, it's about time, it's a very important treaty. So I think by not saying exactly exactly what time the school law was due, I would like to ask you to let the Chamber of Deputies vote to discuss the treaty, the arms trade, and only after that would the school law be discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u3	Good, since this is a procedural proposal, we will vote on this proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 68, to which 141 are registered, of which 61 is in favour, against 20. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. [[12.30 hours]] Therefore, we will continue to discuss paragraph 57, which is a government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, school law, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 288, first reading. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Marcel chládek. Before I give him my word, I will ask the honourable House to calm down, so that we can discuss further points in peace. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I, honourable Members, will try to be as brief as possible, so that it is still up to my colleague, Minister Zaorálek. The proposal you have before you is based on incentives from the terrain that have long been acquired and correct some of the things that have been or have proved to be problematic in the past. The school law embraces a number of changes. If you don't mind, I'll give their recap. Section 16 to 19 deals with the education of pupils and students with special educational needs and creates conditions for individual access to our children. Another section 47, which is also extremely important, makes the preparatory classes of primary schools accessible to children without social disadvantages. So far it has been so that it was only for a specific target group, now it is for all children, and it will create conditions for school directors to open these classes and fill them. Another is the authority to organise the State's components to establish kindergarten schools. This was created at the initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture, because so far it was only the Ministry of Education, Defence and Interior, respectively. Department of Social Affairs, which could negotiate kindergarten. We are now opening this up for the possibility of all state organisations. Furthermore, this law introduces a register of pedagogical workers. It responds to the stimulus, if you remember, to the debate about the law on teaching workers, when we haven't known for ten years how many qualified and unqualified educators we have here. This register should prevent us from being educated in the future at the teaching faculties of a teacher of one aprobation, and there are many of them and ends up at the employment office, and on the other hand we had teachers who are then insufficient goods, such as a teacher of mathematics and physics. Furthermore, this law makes it possible to prohibit the sale in schools of foodstuffs which are contrary to nutritional requirements. It introduces the single award of final examinations in the fields of learning. This was verified by pilot for several years and was reported voluntarily by 85,6 90 percent of the secondary vocational schools. Other changes concern the employment of directors of public schools. This is also significant, because so far, the director, after a six-year period, has only had a fixed-term employment relationship. He couldn't negotiate loans. At the same time, after six years, he could not stay in school or as a teacher. That's what we're fixing. He remains a six-year term, but at the same time has an indefinite period of employment and can continue to act as a teacher at that school. Furthermore, we reintroduce state examinations from graphic disciplines such as for example. shorthand, keyboard test, computer text processing, which will exceptionally welcome business academies and similar schools. Furthermore, the law regulates the provision of compulsory schooling conditions for municipalities, so that entrances are allowed for children with certain disabilities, so that all our children can have smooth access to basic education. The changes also concern the functioning of Czech schools without borders, allowing for greater penetration and better penetration of this type of school, and that is, honourable Members, in my opinion, the most important thing contained in this amendment. Thank you, honourable Members, for your patient attention and, at the end of my brief speech, allow me to ask you for the release of this proposal for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u5	I thank the Minister and now I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u6	Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, Minister, members of the government, colleagues. It is difficult to speak with the news report after the Minister's comprehensive introduction, because he has given you a detailed presentation of five or six essential points, which have been amended by Act No. 561/2004 Sb. contains. I just want to say that it's already about the 30th amendment to this law, but it's not a novel that's being forced into something, but it's a novel that's been forced into practice, a normal life at primary, secondary schools, a normal life in the communities of founders. I would like to recapitulate what this amendment contains. I think the largest scope of this amendment is in Section 16, i.e. in a section concerning the education of pupils and children and students with special educational needs. There has been a great deal, to say the least, in the Czech school public over the last few years. We have argued a great deal about how this current is to be educated, and I think we have a bill before us that comes to terms with what we are proud of, i.e. the existence of special and practical schools, but also very strongly supports the inclusion of pupils with some defects into normal educational currents. And I think that if we adopt this amendment, we will finally come to European legislation, because we are still being followed by an unsolved judgment from 2007. It is also very important to introduce a register of pedagogical staff, because every year many graduates leave our teaching faculties. The truth is that these graduates often do not get into practice, but even worse, those who choose to go into practice do not meet the needs of primary and secondary schools. We are still talking with the Minister about strengthening mathematics teaching, about the future introduction of mathematics graduation, but what we are dealing with is the lack of qualified teachers who have mathematics and informatics. Plus, you know, we were talking here a while ago about an amendment to the law on teaching workers. We have also discussed the qualifications of teaching staff here, and our coalition government intends to create a career order. But without such a register of teaching staff, neither can we in the House work in a career order responsiblely. Another area is the completion of secondary education, which mainly concerns those fields which are completed by the apprenticeship examination. We have already said a lot about state graduation, but we have not yet discussed what is important in order to produce standard-educated and prepared professionals in crafts. So far, this project has been verified and we must say that it has proved itself. It is therefore proposed that it be put into practice by legislative means. The last area, schools have been facing various administrative problems since the 2011 amendment of the Administrative Code, and therefore several changes are proposed here, which make it easier for school directors to focus on these administrative procedures. And I can't even forget a thing that concerns the employment of school directors. I would just like to point out that yes, school directors are appointed for a period of six years, but then basically, if they don't go on, they have nowhere to go, and when we want young people to run schools, they want to take a mortgage or start building an apartment, so they have a fixed-term employment relationship, and nobody, banks houses give them loans, mortgages, and this denies that we want school leaders to be young or graduates, people with experience who want to develop. In this part, the novel is coming their way. I could talk about it here -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u7	Madam rapporteur, I am very sorry and I will ask my colleagues in particular in the left side of the hall to keep their voice down, because they are disturbing us during the hearing and you must raise your voice. I think it's useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u8	And I could talk about it for another half hour, but I think it's important that I ask you to release this law for second reading, and as a member of the school committee and subcommittee on regional education, I promise that we will be very responsible about this law. We'll try to give you a comprehensive view. I would like to see what has happened here in the previous parliamentary periods, that we have agreed on school matters across the political spectrum, that we may come here with an amendment or additional proposals agreed by this House. I consider it very important because education is neither left nor right, nor orange, nor blue. Education is the foundation of the good life of our entire society, our entire state. So I also beg you very much to release this law into second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u9	Thank you. I have an application here with priority rights. I ask President Fiala whether I can open a general debate. Well, I am opening up a general debate in which I have the priority right to apply to Mr Fiala. Then I have Mrs Nováková's factual comment, is that correct? Yes. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment, as has been said here, responds to a number of technical problems facing education in the Czech Republic. On this side, of course, it is right that the amendment addresses some of them. What bothers me about the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Education is that it does not tell us which direction the education is supposed to develop. He's not showing us any conceptual perspective. I don't see any concept in the changes, in the set of changes that are here, and I don't know what we're actually trying to achieve. The amendment is very complicated. There's a series of technical details. But I would ask you to pay attention, after all, because the technical details fundamentally affect education in our country. And I agree with Mrs Bohdalová's last sentence that education is extremely important for our future. I would perhaps draw your attention to one thing that I have already said from this point of view as the Minister of Education, but unfortunately I did not have enough time to carry it out, and that is that if we continue to develop the school law in this way, we will not help our education at all and solve the problems that the school public is facing, and that is reducing bureaucracy, creating conditions for teachers and directors to work, eliminating unnecessary paperwork, the constant changes they are facing. And of course, too, and this is a huge task for the Ministry of Education and for all of us, a better, fairer system of funding for primary and secondary schools. What we have before us, the school law - and here again I agree with Mrs Bohdalová that education is a matter that must be dealt with across the political spectrum in these essential matters. So let's remember that school law is an example of a law that shouldn't be. This is an example of a bad legislative standard. The school law has more than 100 pages, it has 190 paragraphs, and a huge number of various inconspicuous accompanying decrees are attached to it. School law regulates things that need not be regulated and do not have to be regulated by such a legal standard. And if we want to help schools, the task ahead is to prepare a simple, understandable, conceptual school law, not to constantly play with improving this bad standard. However, we have a technical, comprehensive, comprehensive amendment before us, so let us take a look at some of the proposals that the Ministry of Education has come up with in this text. In order to demonstrate to you, by example, what is unnecessary regulation and what is a non-conceptual proposal by the Ministry of Education, I will give you one example. An example may be a test from graphical disciplines, a test from shorthand, which the amendment reserves in § 171 to the Ministry or a legal person entrusted with it. In the school law, we are dealing with a shorthand exam and a special decree will be issued. This issue would be solved outside the framework of the school law within the national system of qualifications, which, by the way, is one of the excellent things that we have in our education system under the Act on the Recognition of Further Education Results 2006. And if we were to deal with this within the national system of qualifications, the shorthand exam has one huge advantage that this test, which is now being held by the Ministry of Education, does not have. It would also be recognised outside the Czech Republic because the national system of qualifications is linked to the European system of recognition of qualifications. But we, in the context of reformism and the left-wing idea that everything has to be dealt with by law in the last detail, put a shorthand exam, perhaps on the pressure of some interest groups, directly into the school law. Are we going to issue a special decree - and a result? Those who pass this test will have it only applicable to the territory of the Czech Republic, but not if we use other instruments, much more appropriate, for the entire territory of the European Union. In order not to be unfair, one conceptual thing is there, and this conceptual thing is developed in the right direction, and this is that Section 16, i.e. a system of support for pupils with specific educational needs, where there is actually some individualisation and where it is very difficult if I should say it simply in one sentence, where it withdraws from accessing pupils according to the type of disadvantage, but now it will be treated rather by individual needs. The direction is correct, but this is the part that raises, and we also have to say to ourselves here in the House, the greatest distrust or fear of the professional public and teachers, how it will actually be realized. First, there is a possibility of abuse in the individual assessment, but this can be eliminated by some other improvements. But what's really threatening here is that the system won't be usable because it won't be funded. And here, the Minister of Education should be made clear to us from what sources and how the amended system of support for pupils with specific needs will be financed. I would ask the Minister to calculate to us before the second reading how much money will be needed in practice for this new system of special education, or a system of support for pupils with specific needs. Another thing that was also mentioned here by the Minister and, I think, the rapporteur, is the introduction of a register of pedagogical workers, § 28a. This new information system - and we are now obsessed with various registers of everything that we can implement in our country. We're always thrilled to have another register, we'll be able to keep track. We put millions of crowns into it - this is supposed to cost three million crowns - but we often don't know what the register is for, and we don't use the registers in practice, except for control, for new bureaucracy, for people not to be able to do their jobs and write something into a register with which the state will ultimately do nothing. This register for three million crowns is also intended to serve only statistical-analytical purposes. [[12.50 hours]] And what bothers me is that it is not linked to the law on teaching workers, for example, in terms of ensuring a uniform approach to the validation and recognition of teacher qualifications. So we introduce this register, we put money in it, teachers don't get equal treatment across the Czech Republic, it's another paperwork, another burden on schools, the ministry, it's another gesture of our state's distrust of schools and teachers. What is definitely positive is an adjustment concerning the audition for school directors - § 166 para. 3. This is a shift for the better, and it was undoubtedly necessary to deal with this in the school law, because there was a risk that capable people would not take the risk that the state would put them at risk, and they would not even report to the principals' positions if they left after six years and did not even have a place at school. It is good that the Ministry corrects this, but I think, even after the experience that we have with the positions of school directors, that we should go further, that we should still prevent certain policies that may occur here in some cases, and that the announcement of an audition for the school head should only be subject to a proposal for a school inspection or a school board, which is, by the way, the institutions that we have set up to evaluate the school and the work of the principal. But we can continue to discuss this in committee discussions. Here, this adjustment to the directors' audition is extremely important, or we're going to jeopardize the quality of those, or we're going to jeopardize the fact that high-quality people aren't going to report to the directors' offices. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are making such an important amendment to the school law with positive and negative things, we should not just notice what is good and bad there, but we should also notice what is missing there. And one thing is really missing in the Ministry's proposal. It is not good that the bill maintains only the current state of domestic education, i.e. that domestic education is permissible only for the first grade of primary school, and does not extend the possibility of home education to the second grade of primary school, i.e. up to the 9th grade. Perhaps you who do not follow the issue will say: what home education and what, there will be someone there to educate the child, the state has no guarantee that the child will be educated well. Of course, that's not true. The state has a guarantee. But most of all, the Ministry of Education gradually tested home education at 2nd grade for several years. What are the results of this testing? Definitely. Definitely. It can be implemented, education at 2nd grade of primary schools can also be put into practice, adapted in a similar way to individual education at 1st grade of primary schools. So I'm asking: if the Ministry didn't put it there, why did we test it for several years, why did the experts deal with it, why did we watch whether domestic education was possible or not? The results are clear, it's possible, but then we won't adjust it in the law. I, of course, assume that, as part of the amendments, if this has not already happened, this option will be added to the law on the initiative of Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that the ODS will also support the release of the bill for second reading, so that a detailed and thorough discussion can take place in the committees and, above all, that this proposal can be adapted so that we can have a really bad school law better than that proposed by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u11	Thank you, and just for the record, I'll read the order of the performers. Just an explanation to Minister Chládek: according to the Rules of Procedure, a factual remark takes precedence over a priority right. And one more warning that written, therefore electronic factual takes precedence over application from the diaper. So I have written here: Mrs Novák, Mr Kořenko, Mrs Zelienková and Mrs Nováková, the last de facto Mrs Bohdalová, and then Mr Chládek in fact. I mean, Mrs Nováková, please. - I'm sorry, Mr. Senator. Please get to Mrs Nováková's microphone. Your two minutes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, as a guarantor of the TOP 09 Club, I can also say that the TOP 09 Club will provide the opportunity for an amendment to the School Act to go to 2nd reading, with the fact that I, as a number of colleagues here and colleagues, am not one of a number of ministers who promised conceptual changes and then need to be made or not. We take it, we who are from practice, we take it so that yes, the novel shows signs of a technical novel. But there's a lot of things worth taking care of. It's the details that need to be changed, I'm sure they're changeable. The TOP 09 will therefore focus significantly on the proposal of the educator registry, further on the school board and its role and role. Here I must say, I have a different opinion than the previous speaker, Professor Fiala. I see the school board as a bit threatening and often destabilizing factor in the school environment, but necessary. As with many of you, we will propose that individual education be either part of this legal standard for stage 2 or at least, as a minimum, we consider that the number of schools where an experimental project is actually taking place will be significantly extended. And for the most positive we see a new attitude, a new view of the children they need have some educational needs. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u13	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Kořenko's microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u14	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I just went through some things with school legislation as part of the preparation for this law. There it is necessary to note that there will be accompanying regulations, accompanying decrees, which will modify the individual points. There's also negotiations going on. I think that this whole material will be dealt with in the school committee, in subcommittees, which is essentially where these issues will be dealt with and discussed among people who, of course, work with this issue daily. I would just like to make my point of view on home education at second level. It's not like I thought it couldn't be realized or that it wasn't good enough that the people who made it couldn't handle it. But personally and from the experience I have from school, I don't think we should support socially isolated individuals. Today we are talking about teamwork everywhere, about solving social interactions, a child should be able to - or each individual has various stimuli, and if at 18 or 16 years of age we release an individual who basically lives in some kind of social isolation, I don't think that's exactly what we need for the further development of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u15	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and now, please, to Mrs. Zelienková's microphone. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to support this law from this point of view so that it passes by 2nd reading. My colleagues and I are already preparing amendments to the appointment of school directors because we see this as a problematic area. We believe that the appointment of school directors is often based on some political decision, which we would like to prevent, or at least adjust it in some way, so that elementary schools work better towards pupils and towards educators, so that the director has more time for teaching work. So it will also be related to the work and responsibilities of school directors. And if any of the Members are interested in joining this work here, across the political spectrum, of course, we're just gonna be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u17	Thank you for keeping the time limit. And so far, with Mrs Bohdalová's final de facto. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u18	Madam Vice-President, by your means to Mr Fial. I would say that we are not discussing the education strategy by 2020, but we are discussing law 561/2004 and changes specifically caused by practice. First of all. Two. When it came to the ODS government in 2006, this law was effective for a year. What started? He overreacted, overcame the amendment to the school law, without being verified in practice. And three. Dear Vice-President, Mr Fiala, I really think it is not good to involve politics in the subject matter of school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u19	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Then I have two more factual, already three factual ones - Mr Stanjura, Mr Fiala and Mrs Němcová. Mr. Stanjura's microphone, please. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u20	I would like to ask everyone who talks about politicizing the choice of school directors, as a person who was head of the city, and, of course, the city's strategy is when we talk about basic education, also to choose directors to be specific. Of course, such fairy tales as the bad politicians always send their friend or friend to be headmaster or principal of the school can happen. Personally, I think the smaller the village, the higher the risk. If you look - and it doesn't matter, in any county - at the ballots, so often such a story that the current mayor named last year, this year, the year before, the school principal who just happens to appear on his candidate - and now I don't really care which political party I think it's a common case regardless or even the Association of Independent Candidates. That's not entirely normal. On the other hand, my experience is that if you have a school principal that you don't think is making any improvement to that school anymore, you're not essentially exchanging it. He follows the law, he goes to work, he doesn't hit kids, so basically you don't stand a chance. And this debate is very difficult to set rules so that neither party can prevail. Nor is it that when someone becomes director of retirement there, on the other hand, so that the authority to replace someone is not abused. I think our view of it being the school councils and the Czech School Inspectorate is just right. There the risk of abuse is lower than any city council. And again, I don't want to accuse my colleagues of community policy that this happens often. Perhaps such excesses are, which is why I always call for a particular example, a particular community, a specific council or mayor. But unlike my colleague at TOP 09, I do not consider school council dangerous. I may have been on a school board in high school, but I don't consider them dangerous. I believe that parents' representatives are interested in making the school they have their children work well, the school. So I think it's a good institution. And again, if it doesn't work somewhere, then I have to be specific again and ask in that particular place, in a specific school for some sort of redress, to ask other parents to possibly replace their representatives, but the same school representatives. Here's the very problem with the actual attendance of those school representatives, because--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u21	Mr. Ambassador, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u22	With what? Came in? We're out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u23	You have really two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u24	I see you're out. I'm still going to sign up for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u25	Okay. Now, I beg you, Mr Fiala, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u26	I would like to assure Mrs Bohdalová, by your means, Madam President, that I know very well what is being discussed here, but I am afraid that she is not fully aware of the scope of this amendment and the technical changes. I didn't politicize anything, I don't understand what you're talking about, but I demanded that these changes follow some concept and some vision of the development of education. And what you're saying is, well, it's a technical novel, so it responds to some demands, so we're going to adjust that, that, that, that, that, that, that... Yes, that's what happened in the past. And ask the teachers and school heads how they live in it! The law is very detailed, it regulates things that it is not supposed to regulate. And if these technical changes aren't guided by some concept, then we're just causing more confusion and more inconspicuousness. So I'm really asking for the concept here, too, of the technical things, because otherwise we're gonna put a lot of different nonsense in the ministry that isn't connected, and it's just gonna be harder for the schools than it is now. So I know what I'm talking about. And the other thing. I know that social democracy is still doing this: you ruled here and you caused it. I don't care. I don't know what was in 2006 and what the Green Party ministers were just proposing and promoting in education. All I know is that this way of developing a school law without a concept is wrong! And I'd say, even if someone did it five years ago, eight years ago, I said it, and I'm gonna keep saying it. So, Mrs Bohdalová, through Madam President, I am not the one who politicizes this debate. And I call on you to return to the material problems that I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u27	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Now, please get to the microphone with the de facto Mrs. Mrs. Němcová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u28	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not an expert on education, but on that point I was provoked by the words of our colleague Vlasta Bohdalová, who has dealt with this subject for a long time, I also know it from previous parliamentary periods. However, I do not think that it was adequate in relation to what ODS President Petr Fiala said here. He conceptually evaluated the bill, its changes and what it should bring. And I think that such a debate is part of this subject. Now that I have the floor in a factual point, let me ask the Minister in this regard why domestic education was removed from the law at second level, up to the 9th grade, and what ways it fell out of those proposals, when, according to my information, it was there at first and suddenly after the intervention of perhaps the Government Legislative Council or I don't know who it fell out of. I am arguing several emails that I received from my parents, possibly also from pupils who have completed this home education, and it has helped them because of their health disability or family situation, etc. I think that this element is 100% to be preserved in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u29	Thank you, Madame, for respecting the time limit. I will ask Mrs Chalánková to endure because there are two priority rights in front of her. First Minister Chládek and then the President of the KDU Club, Mr Mihola. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll just get to Mr. Fiala's reply. I think that Mrs Bohdalová was absolutely right that you would regret it. Because otherwise I cannot imagine that a person who worked for more than a year as Minister of Education managed the Czech Rectors' Conference, was the Rector, and I consider him one of the biggest experts in Czech education, he will perform with such a layman's opinion. I don't think you need it, Mr. Ambassador. Strategy. School law isn't supposed to deal with strategy. The 2020 Strategy, on which we worked together, Mr Petr Fiala, is addressed. The school law also has in these technical changes -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u31	Minister, I'm sorry, but I must teach you about the Rules of Procedure. If you turn to Members, do so by my means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u32	Okay. I will do so through Madam President to make it longer. I'm sorry, because in the Senate, the Minister can address directly, and the Minister can also be addressed directly in the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u33	It's one-sided in the House. A Member may address the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u34	Mr. Fiala through Madam Vice-President, what's non-conceptionary in that technical novel? All the changes that are there are for the better. They correct the mistakes that have been wrong set up here in the law for years. And it turns out that they're not well-set and they're not working. It bothers me that Mr Fiala here names and criticizes things that he himself, when preparing this amendment, put into this amendment, and this is a test of graphic disciplines. Why is there a test of graphic discipline? Because for ten years, state trials have been here without any support in the law. For ten years, the students here had a paper that is basically useless to them now. That's why we're fixing it. I agree with you that school law has a large number of pages. But I want to ask through Madam President, you have been a minister for one year and two months. What did you do to make those pages less? And what did you put forward in a year and two months anyway? What exactly did you put forward? Not what was worked out, what did you finish? And if you've been in charge here for seven years and the advisor was Václav Klaus Jr., who's now your education teacher, I'll remind you that when he joined as a counselor, he said that the school bill would have three pages when he finished there. And he's got some 123. Teacher registry. I can calm you down there. On the contrary, the teachers' register will reduce the administration, because we still want some questionnaires, some kind of investigation, after schools. Nobody's working with it. This registry will negotiate this in one place and will use this data to predict where the system is developing. I'm going back to the law on teaching workers. We have 6,000 teachers at the Labor Office and 7,000 unqualified. The six thousand teachers from the employment office can't go to schools because they have a different qualification than we need. The school choir is aged, teaching faculties do not respond in time to the need and do not create sufficient conditions. That's one of the reasons why the register is being introduced. I would like to ask honourable Members if it would be possible for you to look at what is in the law and what is proposed by this amendment before you propose anything. Because the things that some of you have named have been in effect for a long time. I am not introducing the appointment of school directors with this amendment, but we are merely adjusting that the director who ends up in his post does not have to leave school. Just for the record, I agree with Mr Stanjura, the protection of the headmaster in the field of education is more pronounced than, for example, the protection of the directors of retirement homes or other establishments. The selection committee during the audition consists of people who should ensure adequate objectivity - the Czech School Inspectorate, there are school representatives, parents' representatives. Where I may see a problem, it is for the town council to then see to it that the outcome of the bankruptcy proceedings is respected. Home education - for the lady of the house. I did not leave home education out of the law, Madame, because home education in the law was never second-degree. I'm not against homeschooling, but if you've been doing an experimental second-level homeschooling for years, I'm begging you, don't do it in six schools. We have four and a half thousand primary schools, and I want us to verify it first on a larger number of schools, not six. That's why I think the verification I didn't cancel should continue. Verification continues and will continue on a larger number of schools. If you want to add it to the law, I would point out the significant risk that home education at second level may not prove effective in practice. That's why I want more schools to be checked out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u35	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Stanjura, in fact. I ask that Mr Fiala be prepared for action. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u36	The Minister and the rapporteur are calling for a substantive debate. The Minister, instead of replying, will perform, I would say, a dirty political attack. And it's funny when a buddy of David Rath is here to train a professor and rector that he's a layman in the field of education. That's really funny. I'm going to add a specific example, and I'm not an expert on education. Mr. Secretary, do you really think there's a parent's representative sitting on the school principal's selection committee? Who told you that? They sit on the school board, not the selection boards. Learn the decree. And if you want to talk to the councillors, make some sort of summation about how many times the competition has come up. But we're not talking about a tender, we're talking about a special-purpose appeal. That's what I'm talking about, not the selection process. If you don't take my word for it, plus minus it's 100,000 kids, I think we'll agree on that number, depending on how strong the year is, at least in the years they're going to school now. According to my information, approximately 200 children participate in home education, which is much less than 1%. It's two okay. How many hundreds of schools do you want to verify that? I find it absolutely incredible what you're saying here, given the small number of children and the fact that we're going to allow those who are now finishing first degree to continue. I'm sure that doesn't disrupt the system. And maybe the two hundred children, and I don't believe it, will be worse educated than the other 99,800. I just don't believe it! But even if you're right and your blackest fears are fulfilled, it doesn't affect the education of the population. And as a right-wing politician, I trust my parents to know better and better than the Minister of Education, the Member, the Senator, the School Council, the City Council, what is most important to their own child. Have a little faith in those parents, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u37	I thank the honourable Member for complying with the time limit. And now, I beg the de facto Mr Fiala. Then he will prepare himself with the de facto Minister Chládek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u38	Minister, I can address you here directly as a member of the government. I could, of course, return your political and personal attacks. I won't do it. I hope everyone saw it, and everyone who listened to it, that I was talking about things here, I said what's wrong with the novel, what's good, what's to think about, what to discuss. Social democracy responded by starting to politicize, and you started attacking me personally. Anyone can picture it for themselves. It seems to me that our views are really breaking up in a fundamental way. I believe more, as President Stanjura said, parents, but I trust pupils more, I trust teachers more, I trust school directors more. You don't trust them, you want to regulate, complicate everything, and that's what I blame you for, of course. I don't think it's right for you to say that I've come up with some of these things. Yes, we've been dealing with some things, and we've wanted to deal with them, some in a similar way. That's exactly what I described to you in my material interpretation. But some of them are solved in a way I wouldn't dare present. If we're simply adjusting Section 16, and it's very important, and I would also like to modify it, I wouldn't go before the House if I didn't have a very clear idea of what it would cost, how I would finance it. If you have it, it's delicious and tell us. I didn't ask you to do anything else. Again, then. I'm not returning personal attacks. I'm not the one who's politicizing the debate. I'm not gonna collect political points on this, even though I could easily, because I think when you asked me what's behind me as a minister, I'm not gonna answer that, but ask the public, ask the education experts, they'll tell you. But I don't want to collect political points on it. I want us to have a better law than what you're putting out here and suggesting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u39	Thank you for the time limit and now, with Mr Chládek in fact, and then Mr Laudát will be prepared. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u40	A brief response to Mr Stanjura. I did not respond by that remark, through Madam President, to you, I rather pointed out that we here when we want to change the appointment of directors, so that it is not part of this amendment. If you're telling me that I don't know how education works, that's where the parents' representatives are at the school boards. That is why I also said that parents, Mr Stanjur, therefore I also said that parents can influence the course of Czech schools. For Mr Petr Fiala to do his thing. It bothers me when you're criticizing something that's in that law in the same form that you had in that proposal that you wanted to put forward. That's the only thing that bothers me about it. And two, I don't think you trust teachers and schools -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u41	Minister, I'm sorry, you've been logged in for real, that's two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u42	You don't trust teachers and schools because homeschooling, the way you gave it, is mistrust for teachers and schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u43	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Stanjura, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u44	If it were a reading, I'd say: Read 1 and understand text 5! I'd like to ask Prime Minister Sklenák not to disturb the Minister now that I want to speak with him. Or stop my time, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u45	Ambassador Sklenák, please. Then I'll stop your time, and then I'll play it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u46	Thank you. I can wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u47	I ask the Minister and the Chairman of the CSSD Club not to disturb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u48	Thank you, too. Minister, Senator, we really need to listen to each other. You said in your performance, which I responded to, that my parents are sitting on the selection boards. And I reacted that it just wasn't true and that this is how I could... And you're arguing that my parents are sitting on school boards, which I mentioned earlier. I was talking about the selection boards based on your performance, and I insist that parents' representatives are not sitting on the selection boards. And that's it! So you don't have to tell me he's sitting on school boards. We're in agreement, I know about that. I was just saying that if you want to call someone a professor, a long-time rector, and you want to master him for having lay opinions, I've shown you at your show that you're not strong at campfires, either. Not that you guys aren't strong at the junkyards. And if I'm wrong, bring me some, you don't have tonight, send me that decree by order of the composition of the selection committee. [[unintelligible]] I don't mean staff, but structurally. Representative of the Czech School Inspectorate, representative of the founder, representative of the school etc. But the parents' representatives aren't there, and I insist! That's it! If you send me a decree, maybe the text has been updated, so I'll apologize next time at second reading. And we made it clear as a club that we wanted to release it for second reading and we want to debate it. And just for the record, I know you all say that to the Social Democrats. Count how long we ruled. Six years over the past eight years. It's just reality. You keep saying seven or how many. Six years. And of that, the minister who was a member of the ODS was not in government at that time. Yes, we were in the common government, I'm not apologizing for it, I'm not covering it up, but a member of the Civil Democratic Party at the time, when he was a minister, he just wasn't there. That's all. But I'm not making excuses for it. And you will use it as an argument instead of answering how much your proposals will cost the state budget. Either you don't know or you don't want to tell us. I don't know what's worse. I think a) is worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u49	Thank you for respecting the time limit and now please, with Mr Laudát in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u50	Thank you. I'm sorry, based on what happened here before this point, I pulled Minister Zaorálek out and I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt this point now, to discuss the arms trade, and then to go back to continuing this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u51	Thank you, and since this is a procedural proposal, it's a procedural proposal now, so... [[Mrs Černochová also wants to present a procedural proposal.]] But I have to vote on it immediately and without discussion. No debate. So I'm gonna call all my colleagues in the O.R. I'll check you all out and ask you to register with your voting cards again. According to the information board, the number of entries has stabilized. I will just repeat the procedural proposal that has fallen here, and that is the interruption of this point, and after discussing paragraph 107, which is the treaty, the government proposal, the ratification of the arms trade agreement, the return to this point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 69, to which 101 Members are enrolled, of which 83 is the case, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. At this point, I am interrupting this point in the general debate and approaching paragraph 107. I cannot accept a factual point outside the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Černochová. Then with priority rights. You have to define whether you want to give priority rights or de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u52	If you gave me your word, I would define it, Madam Vice-President. I'm performing as--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u53	You are signed up with a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u54	I am acting as Vice-President of the ODS, and I would like to make one thing clear here. You said at 12 o'clock, Madam Vice-President, that the point that I suggested an hour ago to be discussed - because I understand Mr. Zaorálek's reasons for wanting this to be discussed at the meeting today - so you publicly said that the point was included for 12 o'clock for an indefinite period of time. So, in the meantime, here we explained with Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Sklenák Club that it was your mistake that he wanted that point to be designed at 12 o'clock! Please explain to me what's going on here at this point! Why wasn't the proposal I made an hour ago adopted and suddenly it's okay? I feel like the real Chairman of the CSSD Club doesn't know what's going on in his club right now. He doesn't know what one of his ministers wants, what the other minister wants. That is what the debate is going on here, and a very interesting debate and a fundamental debate on the amendment to the School Act. She just broke up. Please be clear and maybe put out a break, Madam Vice-President, figure out what's going on here at the moment and why this is happening. Whether you made a mistake or a colleague of Sklenák. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u55	Madam, if you don't mind, I have made no mistake, I am proceeding in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is a procedural proposal, I shall have it put to a vote without delay, and that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And that's all I can tell you about it. Otherwise, in front of you, Mr. President Sklenák is registered with priority rights, and then I'll give you the floor, of course. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would like us to focus on lawmaking and not on these discussions. But just to clarify: just look, my colleague, through the President, in the tapestry as it was, and it is quite obvious. The point was firmly placed, but at 12 o'clock at first! There were two conditions, that is, at the time of 12 o'clock, so the item was quite rightly opened by the President. Minister Zaorálek has no problem waiting here even after the end of the school law with the contract. But it was simply a request from the right part of the spectrum for this interruption. And since it has been announced that there is no problem with the contract in any club and it will be approved very quickly, we have agreed to the interruption so that whoever wants to take part in the vote can. And then we'd go back to school law. I don't know what's incomprehensible about this, I don't know why we should take a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u57	Before I give the floor to the Member, I just want to confirm this. This proposal has been adopted in this way and I would like us to act in this spirit. You have your word, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u58	Madam Vice-President, if you play what you said here at 12 o'clock and five minutes, it doesn't correspond to what my colleague Sklenák is saying at the moment. And most importantly, I still do not understand why, at the same time or the same content text, which my colleague Laudát just said, I proposed an hour ago why the vote on the ČSSD, the positive vote, did not take place. Why did it happen now? I really feel like the left hand here doesn't know what the right hand is doing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-010-057.u59	Madame, I suggest you object, according to the Rules of Procedure, to my way of leading the House. I would therefore like to continue the negotiations. Opening with this item number
