ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u1	57. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and some other laws /house print 288/ - first reading I have here with the priority right of Mr Mihola, and then I will ask Mrs Chalánková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will not forgive myself for considering after the x factual and after the various interruptions that it might be a good idea to divide my contribution next time, to factor into several factual ones. I'd have gotten to the word sooner. But as one famous Czech adage sounds, who will wait, it will come. I am so glad that this will still fit in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting today. Perhaps every draft law that addresses the school issue is a sensitive matter, which is evident from this debate, which was started a long time ago. It also attracts the attention of citizens, and it often raises considerable emotions. I would say often greater than those laws that we have dealt with for a long time, such as the Service Law. At the outset, I would like to say in this context that the material presented should therefore be as high as possible or at the highest level as possible and should not be left with a number of unanswered questions or questions without an adequate explanation. Yet I will join my previous speakers, who have highlighted the positive -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u3	My colleague, I'm very sorry, but I'm going to ask the honourable House to keep it quiet so we can discuss this in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u4	I join my fellow speakers, who have mentioned positive issues, especially about the change in approach to children's education, pupils and students with special educational needs. I also personally join the Minister, and I also consider the issue of dealing with the proper nutrition of pupils and students, i.e. the question of various machines with sweet food, drink and so on. Now, however, to critical criticisms or observations on the proposed amendment. I will start with an argument that seemed particularly weak and inadequate to me, a proposal that addresses limiting access to information about schools when it argues by compiling - I quote literally - the positive rankings of school success. I believe there is a right to free access to information. After all, it is also anchored in the Constitution. The restrictions can only be reached in very serious situations or cases. I would also like to comment on individual, virtually. home education at the second grade of primary schools with which the amendment initially envisaged. I would like to declare here that KDU-ČSL is for allowing this domestic education. I do not think that in the Czech environment it would somehow go over or outgrown and become an unsolvable matter. I have repeatedly discussed these matters with the parents of these pupils. I admit that even as a teacher with 20 years of experience, I admire them to a large extent, but I would respect that possibility. I am also a little short of some comparison with foreign countries, where it is something normal, not just in the United States, but also in European countries. I'd like us not to be afraid of these comparisons next time. Of course, the testing was mentioned here. I believe that if long-term testing - and now I don't want to open up the debate, whether for a few or many schools, there should also be some conclusions of the testing that would shed more light on this issue. As regards the establishment of a register of pedagogical staff, KDU-ČSL is opposed to this intention, I simply point out briefly. I also draw attention to the outstanding issue of compulsory pre-school education, which is postponed in the material actually without any explanation. Then we also disagree with re-establishing the appointment of school directors for an indefinite period. I think that the new approach is actually a relatively short time here and again, if we wanted to change it, I think that there should be clear ground here and that this should be preceded by a discussion where we should clearly discuss all the pros and cons in the expert plenary. No such thing happened, as far as I know. Despite the reservations that I have mentioned, and I do not want to mention many for time reasons, or I will keep them for work on the committee afterwards, so I believe that the amendment is needed, KDU-ČSL will support it at first reading. I would just like to conclude by pointing out again that we would like to take a closer and closer look at the issues which I have indicated in some of my contribution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u5	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Chalánková. You've had it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will not speak for long, perhaps, unlike some previous speakers. This school law creates many emotions and many responses from the terrain that turn to Sections 16 and 16a. Here already with my previous speakers these two paragraphs have been mentioned. At first, I had information that there was an agreement, to discuss all the places at issue, and that the Ministry had brought to the government such a bill that was not disputed. Then again, I was informed that the government had approved the text, where some things were once again becoming controversial and emotional. Where and how it happened, I don't know, or we don't know, I leave it as a rhetorical question on the air. I don't know. Maybe in legislative technical adjustments to the Government Legislative Council, I don't know. I really don't know. I will not go into detail, because TOP 09 is also in favour of this press going through the committee, and only there will be enough room to discuss specific points of dispute. I am convinced, like all of us, that every child, even with disabilities, with disabilities, or as you say in education with specific educational needs, has the right to the best possible education and development of his personality. At the same time, we also see that there are certain shortcomings and concerns about the terrain, which show that stability could be threatened, the certainty of this whole school sector, which could gradually improve on the basis of experience and expertise from this field. As part of doing good, I say this on purpose, it can sometimes happen, and it appears in good faith that there are also attempts at so-called social engineering. I would like to point that out as a great danger. I will not go into these details, as I have already said. I'm asking for your release to the committees. I will also beg for discussion in the Committee on Social Policy, because we are also dealing with children who come from a socio-culturally disadvantaged environment, and it is certainly a matter that should be clarified, clarified and discussed. I would ask the Minister that we, as Members, should be given - I dare say immediately - a decree attached to this draft law, which should be annexed as an implementing regulation, so that we do not approve the general wording, which then gives additional powers to the empowering provisions as sub-legal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u7	I thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Dobešová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u8	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Let me also speak on the amendment of the school law, Act 561/2004. I think there are many things that have been discussed today that the law is touching. It really is an extensive amendment, which not only affects all the points that have been said here, but I think that we all have a need to say our views on the paragraphs or texts that may not be quite clear to us and which will still need to be discussed here in plenary. I personally very much appreciate again, as my previous speakers, the fact that the Ministry of Education took up the topic of care for pupils with special educational needs. I would just very much like us to think about some of the things that have been said in the paragraph, namely the categorization of the degrees of support measures in terms of the exhaustion of all levels before we achieve the right objective. Now, I've been speaking very theoretically, but let me practically underline it. I am the mother of a disabled son who also graduated from this educational system, and like every mom, I wanted to put my child in a classic elementary school because I didn't want to admit that he was disabled enough to have to be educated in a special way. The idea that my child would first go through all the steps before he found the right one scares me a little, because it could take a year, two or three years. Therefore, I propose that we consider in committee and in subcommittees whether it would be better to combine the individual grades than to gradually walk them all through our measures. I also want to draw attention to the role of teaching assistant. It is good that we say in the law that, as part of the effort to use an assistant, it is necessary for the region to supervise its maximum use. In practice, I have the experience that although my child needed an assistant educator for the entire teaching period, the region, as part of the investigation and optimization of the use of the assistant, gave it to my son for two lessons. The next four should probably be me. So it was up to the legal representative to fund this assistant if he wanted his child to be educated or if he didn't decide to stay home. I was funding him. I'm not sure all the families in this country who have disabled children are capable of financing them. We are talking about social disadvantages here, but there is no mention of disability anywhere, and I believe that this is not exactly the same concept. In the part of diagnosis in pupils with mental disabilities, this diagnosis is linked to the social and cultural environment. Once again, I would ask that we consider this well, because I think that the psychologist, who does an examination in pedagogical psychology counseling, is not always able to go into the family and find out what socio-cultural conditions the child lives in. This certainly belongs more to the gesture of social workers. You mentioned the position of directors. I believe all of you are referring to the fair position of directors, but believe me, the directors are still one foot, I don't quite want to say in prison. And for that, they have a six-year contract, and after six years, as one of my previous speakers here said, if the principal is at the end of his game, it's good to replace him. So it seemed a little paradoxical to me, if the director gives all his powers and the committee no longer seems to have enough power to push the school further, let's call it off. So I thank the Ministry of Education very much for canceling this part and leaving the director for an indefinite period and it will be up to the founder, the Czech School Inspectorate to assess how good the director works and, if necessary, declare an audition or confirm his position for the next six years. I also very much appreciate the extension of the administrative rules to non-public schools, i.e. private and church schools, because I think it is really good for parents in these schools to have exactly the same rights as in public schools. Let me also touch the admission procedure, which will be simplified from the point of view of school directors, but I would like to draw attention here to one thing that may have escaped the Ministry. Schools with a talent test receive students in the guards about two months earlier and those pupils who are admitted to these schools are actually deprived of the opportunity to participate in the admission proceedings for the second in the order, and if they are admitted to this school and they want to decide for this school, they have no chance in the current legal system because it is only up to the director of the art school to issue a registration card or not, because they issued it two months ago. What I really appreciate is the medical examinations of pupils, because it was mainly bothered by the director of vocational schools, when the pupil had to undergo a health examination at the company where he went to practice. It was both time and financially very demanding. So I really appreciate it, and it'll make our job easier. But what this amendment does not touch on and what I would like to discuss, and I am going to make an amendment, is a part of the school board. There's been a lot of discussion here. School councils, I'm sorry, but they really don't have the right function to perform, even if they have a wide representation of both parents, pupils and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u9	Madam, I apologize for interrupting, and I will ask my colleagues to keep your voice down so you don't have to scream so much at the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u10	I'll try to do it without a microphone. So I'd like to get back to my subject. I would like to extend the participants in the school councils from one-third representation to one-quarter representation of representatives, particularly in schools with practical teaching on practitioners and to link the schools with expertise. And here I am following up on some of my predecessors who said that the amendment isn't about the concept of education, and I would like it this time to be about the concept of education. There's still support... [[Noise in the hall, Mrs. Dobešová is waiting for peace.]] Thank you for your attention. There is still support for vocational education, all governments, all ministers, but no one is willing to take the basic steps. And this would be one of the basic steps. The next step would also be the possibility of transferring some vocational schools, which are public schools and have regions interested in optimizing them, i.e. cancellation, to the possibility of operating companies and to greater links with companies that could influence developments in these schools. This will certainly be the subject of negotiations in the subcommittees and in the school committee. I know it's Friday afternoon, and I know that education is on your mind, and I know it's not that important for you to pay attention. Nevertheless, let me express my support for the YES club for this law to be referred to second reading, and thank you for your attention to all of you who have been paying attention to my speeches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u11	Thank you, Madam Member, and now, please, to Mrs Berdychová's microphone. Please, you have the floor, and before you take it, I'm going to ask my colleagues at the entrance to keep them down. But the Member is waiting for her word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u12	Madam President, thank you. I will reduce my contribution because it is almost 14 o'clock and many of you are already leaving the O.R. and our attention is not as it was at the beginning. I, in cooperation with the ASN, which is an umbrella organization of deaf people, and with the Ministry of Education, prepare an amendment concerning Section 16, which addresses the education of children with specific educational needs. Within the framework of this amendment, this paragraph will be extended and it will specify what the deaf need more specifically. You know that I have been acting here on the law on pedagogical workers, when I proposed the integration of an interpreter of the Czech Sign Language into the law. We didn't do it, so we're moving on. We're on the school bill, and I hope we can achieve a successful goal. And I will bring the specifics of the deaf closer to you as part of the second reading of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u13	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Andrle's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u14	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'm really gonna cut my speech short. All I'm saying is that the Dawn movement and I will personally support the negotiation of this amendment or this law, and I believe that this will be for the benefit of our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u15	I thank you, and just point out to my colleagues that we are not done yet, we have the ambition to reach this point. I ask you not to leave the Chamber so that we may be able to vote on the commandments to the committees. Thank you. Now, please get to Mrs Semelová's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u16	Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. There's been a lot of saying here, but let me make a few comments on this big novel. As far as preschool facilities are concerned, where the possibility is given to ministries and other organisational units of the state, it is assumed that this will be possible for employees' children, actually more or less they are company kindergartens, I consider it reasonable given the lack of places in kindergartens. On the other hand, I hope that it does not slip away to being founded in the ministries and other organisations of the children's group, where moms put their children only for babysitting in the morning, but that they will really be pre-school education. As regards the preparatory classes of primary schools, this is where children are placed before compulsory schooling, so today it is for children with a diagnosed social disadvantage, and it is proposed to extend to other groups of children, especially children with a delay. In this context, I would like to point out that we have a network of kindergartens, although inadequate, but they are schools where they are currently qualified pre-school teachers. And here I would see the gros preschool education so that it doesn't shift more and more into pre-school classes. As far as the preparatory classes are concerned, I have a reservation here. I do not know why the amendment to the School Act should extend the possibility of establishing preparatory classes of primary schools for registered churches and religious societies. I don't think this need is appropriate, it's not necessary. Some of those passages I had prepared, I'm gonna skip over to make it short. I have to assess positively the mandatory uniform final exam in the fields of secondary education. I think that the Ministry should guarantee this, and finally about the need and the school's agreement to do so, shows that, even if it was not mandatory, up to 87 percent of the schools have already applied for this single test themselves in the past year. As for the language exam, which could under certain conditions replace one of the exams of the profiling part of the graduation exam, I would appeal here to the fact that the institutions that really ensure the quality of the language exam are chosen, so that the level of language education does not decrease even more. To § 16, this means a support measure for pupils with special educational needs, here was said more than enough. I welcome many of these steps, I think it is good that there are also support measures of the lower level, where teachers can decide on the basis of the knowledge of those children, when there will be no unnecessary paperwork. On the other hand, I regret that there have been changes within three or four days in the sense that the variant, which has been mentioned by the Association of Special Teachers, the Region and others, has been altered after the Government's meeting. Here I think it is necessary to really discuss with experts, because it is not possible for pupils who need to be included directly in special schools or classes to go through the whole Martyria as stated here. I acknowledge the measures against children's improper eating habits. I myself have always been the great enemy of all the school machines where there are overpriced candy, overpriced wheels and other drinks. And besides, it has an impact on the future diet, on the development of the child, so I have to say, it has a big impact on the relationship between children. Because you have kids who can't even afford a decent snack from home, and then you have kids who come to school with their wallets full of wallets, they make good money, and I'm sure it doesn't do any good for the kids. Plus, there's bullying, stealing and so on in this context. So all I want to do is welcome it. On that occasion, just one comment. When we were talking about the Children's Group Act, among other things, we were talking about eating, that the provider doesn't have to give the children lunches, that the moms prepare them at home and bring them to school or to the children's group. In primary schools, you can see how children go not without lunches, but also without snacks at school, that their parents do not prepare them in many ways. As far as the register of teaching staff is concerned, I would like it to be as simple as possible in such a way that schools are not unnecessarily burdened with paperwork, but otherwise the point is that we really will have an overview. Finally, this was reflected in the discussion of the law on teaching workers in what fields we need, which we do not get, which is an excess. It is necessary that this is actually used in negotiations with teaching faculties, with regions and so on, so that it is not just a register for the register. Otherwise, in the future, I think it's okay. If I leave out these other technical matters, at the end of the day only one comment is domestic or so-called individual education. It is allowed at the first stage, there are discussions going on, it was seen around the second stage where the verification is. I think homeschooling should completely disappear from school law. Some cases involving children with health problems can be dealt with in other ways. But let us remember that in the collective, children learn to communicate with their peers, to learn to promote their opinions, but also to accept others' views. He learns to accept defeat, but he also learns to win. These are all things that are irreplaceable and to which the school contributes, which not only educates but also raises for the future. And when it comes to second grade, we require pedagogical qualifications, Master's degree, and aprobation. And at home, I can't imagine a brilliant parent who can handle education that isn't even pedagogical, encompassing a whole range of teaching courses from Czech to chemistry, geography, education and so on. So it's just a comment about homeschooling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u17	Thank you, too. And let me now read the apologies to do all the responsibilities. I have here an apology from Minister Herman since 13.45 for working reasons, Minister Válková 13.45 also for work reasons, Mr Černoch from 14:00 for working reasons, I have here a delayed apology from Mr Fiedler, who apologized for the negotiations between 13 and 14 and is already here. I also have a note here between 13 and 14 o'clock of Mr Vácha also for work reasons, from 13 o'clock for work reasons Mrs Wernerová. I am registering a final application for Mr Beznoska's general debate, but I do not see it in the hall. Therefore, I am ending the general debate. [[14.10 hours]] We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. Before we do so, I ask the appellant if he is interested in the final words. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I will only ask briefly for the release of the Committees, with the fact that the said Section 16, it got there not from the Ministry of Education, but then, during the discussion on the Legislative Council of the Government. I agree that we should amend it with the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u19	I am asking the rapporteur - she is not interested. So I'll call the remaining colleagues from the lobby to see if any of them are there. At the same time, I will check you all out and ask you to register with your cards again. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. I note here the proposal by my colleague Chalánková on the commandment to the Social Policy Committee, which we will vote on afterwards. I do not see another proposal here, so we will vote on the commandment from the Organizing Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, raise your hand and press the button. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 71, to which 95 are registered, for 94, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. This proposal will be directed to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. We will now vote on the proposal by my colleague Chalánková to order this press to the Committee on Social Policy. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 72, to which 96 Members have signed up, for 68, against 14. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. [[Mrs Chalánková is reporting a word from the scene.]] I'm making an exception now because... One more suggestion? Well, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u20	So I'd like to ask if we could vote on an extension, given the debates that have been here. On the extension of the committee procedure by 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-19-ps2013-017-04-012-057.u21	I must say, my colleague, that this is not entirely standard, this was to be said in the debate. But if the House does not object, I will have this motion voted. I see no objection here, so I am opening the vote on extending the committee procedure. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 73, to which 98 are registered, for 17, against 65. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. This proposal was ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Social Policy. I'm done reading this point. At this point, I am interrupting the meeting of the 17th meeting, and I am stating that we will meet next Tuesday 23. 9:00 p.m. Have a nice weekend.
