ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u1	9. Government bill on the abolition of the military retreat of Brda, on the establishment of borders of military retreats, on the change of borders of regions and on the amendment of related laws (law on the border of military retreats) /German press 57/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Martin Stropnický, the Minister of Defence, will present the proposal. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward the main objectives and changes brought about by the Bill on the abolition of the Brda military retreat, on the setting of borders for military retreats, on the change of borders for the regions and on the amendment of related laws. The draft law is presented on the basis of Government Resolution No. 865 of 20 November 2013 as House Press 57. The main reason for optimization of military retreats is to reduce the number of Army of the Czech Republic. For the sake of clarity, in 1993 the Army of the Czech Republic had 115 thousand. soldiers in active service, currently the Army of the Czech Republic has 21 thousand. Soldiers. Due to the real needs of military training, but also to the frequency of training and number states of units, it is necessary to rethink the existing number and extent of military retreats and other training equipment, even with regard to the decreasing source framework of the Army of the Czech Republic. An equally substantial reason for optimization is the settlement of civil rights for the residents of military refuges who, in the absence of a municipality on the territory of a military retreat, cannot vote or be elected to the council of the municipality and cannot own movable property. The proposed changes will solve other fundamental problems associated with the existence of military retreats. First of all, the issue of the life of the population of military retreats, the target state is a state of non-population in the territory of the military retreat, and then almost all restitution claims in the outskirts by direct separation. Restitutional claims within military retreats must be dealt with by redemption or exchange for other land outside the territory of military retreats. The current situation is contrary to the applicable legislation and according to the law property is in the territory of a military retreat owned by the State. However, these restitution claims do not concern church property. It was resolved by the financial compensation of the state under the law on religious restitution. Furthermore, we will comply with the requirements of the surrounding municipalities for access to escapes. As regards the issue of the care of state-registered monuments, changing borders can separate a large part of the declared cultural monuments and transfer them from the territory of refuges to other entities, municipalities, civil associations and so on. The idea of adjusting the boundaries of military retreats has accompanied the army over the past 20 years. The current proposal is based on the White Paper on Defence, followed by a comprehensive and detailed analysis of the General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, which carefully assessed the real, especially the training needs of our army and its possibilities in the field of maintenance and administration of these facilities. The military retreats Boletice, Hradiště and Libáva fully comply with their conditions in all types of preparation, including cooperative exercises, with the participation of all types of troops and for joint alliance exercises. Furthermore, they are commercially most used by foreign troops. For example, last year's Boletics made a contribution to the state budget of 10 million. Crowns. [[15.20 hours]] The Brdy military retreat is primarily intended to train artillery. Due to the area of training areas, i.e. However, only 12 per cent of the territory of the retreat does not allow full training of mechanized units. The Březina military retreat offers specific conditions for basic and improvement training of professionals and therefore it is necessary to maintain it. The bill brings about a change in existing borders. At the military exit of Boletice it is 12 percent within the South Bohemia Region, Březina represents 5% - South Moravian Region, Hradiště 15 % - Karlovy Vary Region and at the Libava Military Departure it is 31 percent - Olomouc Region. The main proposed change is the abolition of Brdy - Stredocesky region military retreat. For training purposes 13. artillery regiment will be further used the crew training ground of 560 hectares near the crew of Jince. The 13th artillery regiment is still a forward-looking crew and I would like to stress that any speculation about its abolition is not true. New municipalities will be allowed to be created or their integration into the territory of adjacent municipalities. This will result in the implementation of the cadastral breakdowns of individual territories based on historical conditions. By implementing this proposal, approximately 42 thousand hectares can be released from the total area of 129 664 hectares of military retreats. Once again: 42,000 hectares out of a total of about 130 thousand. By changing the boundaries of military retreats and abolishing Brda's military retreat, there will be a change in the territorial breakdown of the state, thereby enabling more than two thousand residents of military retreats to implement the constitutional right to self-government through the formation of new municipalities. According to the applicable legislation of the territory of the military retreat, there is no municipality in the territory, its administration is performed by the detachment office, without elected self-governing authorities. The creation of new municipalities in the event of a change in the boundaries of a military retreat allows a law on municipal establishment. The Ministry of Defence, throughout the entire process of preparing for the optimization of the borders of military retreats, sought the greatest possible involvement of the residents concerned and mayors of adjacent municipalities in all negotiations on their future and proposals submitted. These were processed and discussed within the Interministerial Commission of the Ministry of Defence composed of experts from central administrative offices. Representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Czech Office of Landscape and Cadastral, representatives of the regional authorities concerned and representatives of the municipalities concerned participated in the preparation of the material materials as well as in the preparation of the bill. In total, more than 200 meetings were held with representatives of municipalities, citizens and associations. In February 2012, the Ministry of Defence organized a survey among the residents of the military retreats Hradiště, Libá and Boletice, which resulted in a request for the formation of six new municipalities. Preparatory committees were elected to prepare and negotiate the formation of new municipalities. The proposal for optimization also includes an agreement on the transfer of property from the Ministry of Defence's ownership to newly created municipalities so that they can function independently. Work on repairs of real estate infrastructure in total of 200 mil has already been started. Crowns. The creation of new municipalities is de facto the restoration of the original municipalities, which were abolished by the formation of military retreats and became part of military retreats under Act No. 169/1949 Coll., on military retreats without the status of the municipality. The new municipalities will be created from the settlement units, which for more than 60 years managed the army, whose main priority was the operation of retreats and training of troops. The proposal to abolish Brda's military retreat and reduce the size of other military retreats thus means, last but not least, the correction of the injustices caused by the emergence of military retreats and the abolition of municipalities in the 1950s. The way of dealing with the local population, the surrounding administration and the regions is evidence of an attempt to respect their demands and interest in their future. I would add that the proposed bill is the result of complex and long negotiations and is linked with the great expectation of many citizens who have repeatedly believed in the settlement of their civil rights and which the state has failed several times when similar negotiations in the past have ended in vain. Any delay, or even the abolition of the proposal to optimize military retreats, would mean a significant shock to the credibility of the Ministry of Defence and the military, but not only that, a shock to the credibility of the entire state administration. The subsequent reopening of the debate with these people would be very difficult. The draft law was consulted by the Vice-President of the European Commission, the Commissioner for Competitiveness Almuneia in particular in the area of property law and was not found to be contrary to EU law. The bill does not conflict with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic either. Thank you for your attention, so much introduction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u3	I thank the Minister and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u4	Thank you. Madam President, dear government, dear colleagues, allow me, after a very detailed presentation of the law, to present a report on the bill and a few of my comments. One. We have a law before us, which is quite thoroughly elaborate, and several Cabinets have worked on it. I think it was started by Prime Minister Nečas' government, processed from fundamental points of view, continued by the cabinet of Jiří Rusnok, who had already presented it to this House, and now we have the final text. I think that this law is very well prepared, that it has been pre-negotiated in detail and to some extent carries an overload of the complex and comprehensive pre-negotiation. However, I would say that the long-term preparation is linked to the relatively high expectations of what I consider essential in the law, and these are the expectations of two thousand people to reach their own self-government and self-governing communities, namely six municipalities. This means when we discuss this law, and I stress this, we are discussing the future, the self-government, the ability to own property, and so on. Two thousand citizens who could not yet own the property had no self-government and were primarily part of the administration led by the military offices of the military retreat. That means I see it personally as primary. It is not only the ability to own the settlement, but I consider the choice of self-government to be crucial. For the next one. As part of the adjustment of the Ministry of Defence Department's borders, it dealt with restitution and other controversial elements in the territory of military retreats and I think it is also very detailed. The above issue of civil rights is accompanied by a proposal to abolish Brda's military retreat with arguments of overcapacity, inexplicability and inapplicability due to changes in the size and structure of the Czech Army and on the basis of analysis of the General Staff. [[15.30 hours]] I must say that, of course, this is a very legitimate argument, however highly contaminated by the shell, with large supplies of high-quality drinking water and wood, but in my opinion, it is a territory which, to say so - or the closure of the Brdy retreat, I fully respect the opinion of the General Staff and the army, corresponds to the period when the military threw away all the slightest possibilities that could save a few crowns. I hope that the conclusion of this military retreat will eventually end this period. At the same time - because I am aware that this is an issue of the entire law, and I see the main part in resolving the problem of fundamental rights and the possibility of owning those two thousand citizens, I think that there is still a need to open up room for negotiations on Brdy's military retreat by extending the deadline for second reading to 90 days. [[He is turning to the President.]] I'll make a proposal straight away?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u5	I will then ask the proposal for a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u6	Thank you for your attention. Those are my main notes. Otherwise, the preliminary meeting in the Defence Committee reached two conclusions. Firstly, the Committee takes note of the information provided by the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic Mgr Martin Stropnický on the Government Bill on the abolition of the Brda military retreat, on the setting of boundaries of military retreats, on the change of borders of regions and on the amendment of related laws, on the border of military retreats, House press 57. Secondly, it recommends to the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic the inclusion of a bill in the March meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, I have Mr Mackovík here - if that is the case? You squeezed the real thing. So it's not factual? Okay. I am therefore initiating this general debate, in which the President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček has signed up with priority. Then I ask Mr Votava to prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u8	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, for starters, I must say that I am very surprised that we are discussing this bill now, because I still have a coalition agreement in my mind. The coalition agreement clearly stated that the coalition's parties would reconsider the issue of optimization of military retreats. I'll admit I didn't notice any coalition efforts led by the Ministry of Defense for a new assessment. And if the new assessment was carried out only within the Ministry of Defence, I consider it insufficient. Therefore, as this may not be an argument for opposition colleagues, at least for coalition colleagues, the argument should be that what is signed should be respected. This is the first and, in my opinion, quite a fundamental argument. Now, I beg you, in substance, about the bill. I think the rapporteur said it very well here. This is about correcting injustices, adjusting the boundaries of some military retreats, and this is accompanied by a proposal to abolish Brdy's military retreat. And that's the problem. I have absolutely nothing against what the Ministry of Defence is proposing in relation to other military raids, and I fully support the arguments that have been put forward here that there is a need to correct the injustices, it is necessary to give more than two thousand citizens who live in these military raids the right to vote for their representatives. I don't have the slightest problem with that. What I have a problem with, and this is a fundamental problem, is the abolition of Brdy's military retreat. That's why I find it very unfortunate that the Ministry of Defence did not withdraw the law that the government didn't even submit, it was presented by Prime Minister Rusnok's government at that time. And it's unfortunate that the Ministry didn't withdraw the law like other laws in the Department of Defense and tried not to separate the two things. Then the legislative path of this law would be much easier, and there would be no danger that the fate of the people in other military retreats will be influenced by concerns about the fate of Brda's military retreat, while at the same time there would be no danger that those who do not agree to the abolition of Brda's military retreat will be persuaded by arguments that will be used by the very fate of the two thousand people who live in other military retreats. Therefore, I consider it unfortunate, but it is so and we must deal with it somehow. From now on, I will no longer speak to other military retreats, but only to the issue of Brda's military retreat. From my point of view, there are several major problems. The first problem is from the point of view of a major dispute between the Central Bohemia Region and the Pilsen Region, which are both affected by the possible abolition of the Brda military retreat, because it concerns their territory and the division between the two regions of Brda's cancelled military retreat. While the Pilsen Region supports this, the Central Bohemian Region fundamentally disagrees. The same applies to the opinions of individual municipalities. I have personally had the opportunity to speak to a number of mayors from the Central Bohemia Region of Podbrdska, who express their fundamental opposition to the abolition of Brdy's military retreat and use a number of arguments for this. I'm sure the Minister knows the arguments because he was involved in the negotiations with these mayors. And I do not consider it happy that we are voting here on such a serious matter, which will affect the lives of two regions of the Czech Republic, without having a consensus with elected representatives in these two regions on what kind of solution we want to choose. That's the first problem. The second problem is economic. It is argued here that this whole matter will save the Czech Army some 170 million crowns, namely the cancellation of Brdy's escape is about millions of 70. This is a beautiful savings in over 40 billion crowns of the Ministry of Defence budget, but you can see, 70 million against 42 billion, so it is not a fundamental savings. I am quite surprised by the efforts to abolish Brdy's military retreat, and I hope that one day we will find out what the driving force behind the Brda's attempt to abolish the Brda military retreat is because economic savings in this case, in my opinion, are not essential enough to justify such a fierce attempt to abolish the Brdsian retreat. And that's just the expense saved. I ask, and unfortunately, no one has yet been able to answer me what other costs are due to the cancellation of Brda's military retreat. The minister said that Brdy's retreat was intended for artillery training. That's right. Historically, Czechoslovak and Czech artillery trained there. The raid began to fulfill its role in the first Republic. So I'm asking where the artillery will practice. I was told that in other military retreats, which will also not be free, because the cannons - I remind you that 13. Artillery regiment is armed with self-propelled cannon-type Dana, which is no crumb, and such a vehicle, if it moves for example to Doupov, will certainly be enthusiastically welcomed by drivers on the I/6 road, especially if it is the whole column. And I'm not talking about transport costs, fuel costs, etc., but it's also gonna cost. Another economic aspect is what will happen to the crew in Jinka. I like to trust the Minister that the Jinec will not touch that thing. The problem, Minister, is that I've heard such assurances from about seven defense ministers, and it's always been about some crew where it was said to those local "don't worry, it doesn't touch you at all, we're counting on you" just to get another minister to come in and say "the army doesn't have any money, we'll cancel the crew." After all, when the artillerymen of Pardubice moved, the main argument was, "You have nowhere to shoot in those Pardubice. We'll send you to Jincs, there's an artillery range, 300 million dollars worth of barracks renovated, so there's this whole artillery unit going to work, and that's where the artillery should be." Now they say there will be no shooting in Brdech, we move artillerymen to Doupov. I simply wonder how long the crew in Jinka will last and what it will mean for a region that is not well in terms of employment. Plus, the people - both the soldiers and the civilian workers - have some background there, they have some ties. I find it very dangerous. The question is also in the usability of Brda's military retreat. I hope I'm not gonna reveal anything secret right now, because I got an analysis from the DOD after long interventions, because I was looking for the DOD to cancel Brdy's military escape. There is one such table from which I will not quote accurately so that I do not commit anything, but I can say that there is a radical drop in training in the military run-off of Brdy in the last three to four years. While some five years ago, six years ago, all military retreats held on to a very high level of occupancy, suddenly Brdy's military retreat began to plummet rapidly from the point of view of military occupation. It coincidentally fits the decline here until the Ministry of Defence and the then General Staff decided to initiate the process of disrupting the Brdy military retreat. I wonder whether the decline in occupancy and training in Brdech is natural, or whether it is artificial, and whether it was not instructed somewhere, that the troops will practice primarily in Boletice and Doupov or Libová, so that in three or four years it is possible to prove that we don't really need those Brds because no one is practicing there. [[15.40 hours]] The same thing, our Alliance allies, especially those from countries that do not have such a mountain environment and hilly terrain, were very fond of coming to Brd for training and perfecting their skills there. In the last three years, there have been many joint exercises in Brdech. Again, I wonder why that was so. I think both the Minister and the rapporteur were talking about the burden of the field with unexploded ammunition. Of course, the terrain, because, as I said, the whole area served as an artillery shooting range, where shots were shot with 152 mm and larger, so over the time since the first Republic there is a whole series, there are tons of unexploded ammunition, but not at the depth at which pyrotechnic rendering is carried out, but these are heavy artillery pieces, the ammunition can be meters underground and it is no pyrotechnical detachment that passes through there, cannot recover. This means that the risk that we will abolish this heavily affected area, contaminated with ammo, and allow free entry of the population is, in my view, a fundamental security problem. The sum of the sum, because I don't want to talk for long, and the arguments I've heard from local mayors are a number of things, so I believe that the combination of these two things was unfortunate and could be resolved by an elegant compromise, where the government would only put forward the issue of settling property and territorial relations in other military retreats and the military retreat of Brdy could leave aside. It didn't happen that way. I don't think that if the law doesn't come to the end of the road right now, there's going to be some major shock in the trust of the Ministry of Defence or the state administration, as the Minister has been very melodramatically communicating here. It will simply be a sovereign decision of a sovereign parliament that has the option and has the right, and that decision will, of course, be up to all of us whether we prefer the argument that the Minister spoke about, that means having to resolve this matter quickly, save us 70 miles. CZK by abolishing Brda's military retreat, or whether we take into account the arguments of local self-government, including citizens living there, the Central Bohemia Region, and we will stop this thing and try to resolve it again and better. I think it would be no problem for the Department of Defense to re-submit the bill without question of Brdy's military retreat. 95 percent of the injustices mentioned here would have been corrected, and we would have avoided this very controversial decision on the Brdsian retreat. That is why I would like to propose that the Chamber of Deputies return this bill to the plaintiff for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u9	Thank you. Another registered with priority rights, Mr. Member, President of ODS Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u10	Good afternoon. I want to remind you that the defense minister who first suggested it was Alexandr Vondra. It's a good thing it's open today, that every personnel change doesn't mean a complete change of plans. I will not speak for as long as the President of the Chamber of Deputies, I just want to say that it is I that would say strange, perhaps I would use a strong word, perhaps even comical or hypocritical. We had a unique chance to preserve Brdy's military escape. [[There's a laugh coming from the O.R.]] You can laugh about it. We could have had a device there along with our allies. [[Laughter from the O.R.]] I don't think it's funny what's going on east of the Czech Republic. It may seem ridiculous to you, you feel very safe and protected. And the same ones who protested against military equipment at the time, the same ones who, at that time, played very often against the army itself, who had talks about pacifism, peace, as the armies are useless, often the same ones today say "we want to preserve Brdy's military escape." We can all compare ourselves as it is credible compared to. [[unintelligible]] And I do not respond to the words of the President of the Chamber of Deputies so that he does not think so. I joined the debate before, and I didn't know what he was going to say, so that you wouldn't feel that it was my personal encounter with President Hamáček. There's no way that's happening. If the Social Democrats are serious about wanting to go back and renegotiate, and it is not only that their Central Bohemia Governor defends his, I would say justified regional interests, I do not want to criticise that, but we are not here at regional level, but at national level. If they come up with the idea that they want to build something there that will increase the security of the Czech Republic to the future, there could be a substantive debate. But I haven't heard anything like it here. And I want to say that our club will vote for the release of this bill until second reading. The material was actually being prepared for a long time. I don't care if it's been coalically discussed or not discussed. This is a matter of coalition, not of us in the Chamber of Deputies, but I understand the complaint about your coalition partner, but we're not gonna whistle. We think that the bill is okay, that the historical chance has also been missed by the representation of the representatives of your political party, Mr President through the managing lady, and there is no reason to go back and renegotiate. I understand if you're against it. It is legitimate that there is simply some bill of law - that is, the renegotiation cannot be done, either the proposal will be the way it is designed or we will be against it. I can't believe it's going to work for weeks, months or years, and there's going to be a completely different bill. I don't mind if somebody says no and wants to keep a military escape. It's perfectly all right. We as citizens' democrats will support this bill at first reading, and we think that if there are any proposals, we are ready for a substantive debate in committee between first and second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u11	Thank you. Then I have two factual points. First Mr Grospič and then President of the House of Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would like to thank the President of the Civic Democratic Party Club, Mr Stanjur, for actually telling the deep truth here, that, in fact, Brdy, the abolition of Brdy's military retreat was attributed to his party, which at that time was a government party and also had the Ministry of Defence Resort, namely Mr Alexandr Vondra, and that it was actually a revenge to citizens and surrounding communities for rejecting the American radar base. In this context, I would like to remind him that Brdy's military retreat was historically created in the time of the first republic as a space for artillery of the Czechoslovak army, and not as a potential base for armies of foreign states, namely the United States of America, and that the dimension of the training space for the Czech artillery of the Czech army and before that of the Czechoslovak army is a little different than a potentially device which, by its scope, was to fulfil completely different obligations, not obligations related to the defence of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u13	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr. Chairman Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u14	Thank you. I'll try to respond briefly to President Stanjuru. Firstly, it is not that simple, Mr President through Madam Vice-President, to vote either against or in favour. That is why I propose a return to work so that the Ministry can divide the two things, because if we reject it, we de facto pour out the baby and prevent the problem of solving the injustices of other military offenses, which I do not question, and I think it is necessary to do so. If we go back to work, I believe that the Ministry will learn a lesson from this and from this debate here and will no longer present the abolition of Brda's military retreat, but only here will it present material that concerns other military retreats. First of all. Secondly, I don't know why we're bringing up the American radar debate. I have acted in a matter of fact and argued in substance on the issue of Brda's military retreat, its need, its needlessness and cost. [[15.50 hours]] The issue of missile defense, that's something that's a 1997-8 debate, and I can assure you that the American party made decisions based on its own analysis, based on its own knowledge of system testing. Instead of spending money on massive persuasion campaigns and mayors in Brdech promising how they'll have new roads there, they'll have cleaners there, they'll have water pipes, pipelines, and I don't know what everything if someone went to the Pentagon instead, like we did with Ondřej Liška at the time, and he sat down with American politicians and generals, so he would have known long ago that the United States had fundamental doubts about the functionality of the system, about its geopolitical impacts, especially the democratic administration, virtually. Democratic congressmen and senators who were about to take power, and it was quite obvious that the new democratic administration would cancel this project. Except no one wanted to hear it at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u15	Thank you. Then I have a few factual points here. If you don't mind, I'll read the order. Mr Foldyna, then I ask that Mr Stanjura and Mr Gabal be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u16	Madam President, through you, the President of the ODS. I can't get used to the hypocrisy in politics. Every time they talk about something, they think about something else. You are here, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club, pointing out that someone here is mocking at this moment when the crisis is in the east, that we should have a U.S. radar base there. I remember when it was protested, the fundamental arguments were that it was against Iran, and that we should have it here to defend ourselves when Iran's rockets flew at us, and you already, Mr President through Madam President, knew that it was not against Iran, that it was against the United States. It's a bit of hypocrisy, and now we're living to the fullest. If we were less hypocrites, we might save ourselves some trouble in Crimea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u17	Thank you and please Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u18	I don't know why Mr. Foldyna is so upset, we haven't caused any problems in Crimea. Radar is certainly not against the United States of America, as you said earlier in your upset. I think that the citizens' democrats have always been proud that we have become members of the North Atlantic Alliance, and we have always talked about the importance of Euro-Atlantic ties. It's nothing new, no surprise. We believe this all the time that this is better for the Czech Republic than any idealistic talk about common European defence and a common European army that we will certainly not live to see, first. Secondly, I spoke about this, Mr Hamáček, through Madam Vice-President, because the American radar was to be placed in this military retreat, so the connection is there and it is factual. And of course we couldn't, or we could only partially influence the decision of the new American administration. Something else bothered me. That someone, on the topic of national security, warmed up national domestic political soup and the Czech Republic and its political representation at that time did not stand in one row and it was not a match. I'm talking about democratic political parties. I am not surprised that the Communists are against, that is logical, and I am not wasting my time explaining to the Communists that NATO is not the Warsaw Treaty. It's a waste of time. But I think we should stick to this Euro-Atlantic bond, we should do our best. It will be good for democratic political parties to feel the same way. I wasn't talking about this radar at all. I was talking about how those who didn't want a military facility today say they want to keep a military escape there. Nothing more, nothing less. I didn't prognosis anything at the time, I wasn't even in the Chamber of Deputies at the time, but as a member of the civil democrats, I know we've always supported it. We are not ashamed of the alliance with the United States of America and NATO. Some do, I don't take it from them, but we don't. We see more security for the Czech Republic there than somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u19	Thank you. Another one, with fact, is Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I just want to set the political debate straight because I had the opportunity to talk to all three ministers about this in all three cases. Ministers respond to a factual analysis of the General Staff and the Army on the needs of individual training areas and military retreats and, in principle, it is the General Staff, which owns the analysis, without any further debate, whether it was radar or anything else, has identified Brdy as an escape, which is the least suitable for them. With analysis of course it is possible to meritorically argue or critically or anything, but what I mean is that basically all three ministers, and I talked to them about it, including Alexandr Vondra, and the previous Minister Pick, politically implement the decision of the General Staff to abandon the military escape, which according to their analysis is coming as the least suitable for further training. Of course, I repeat, it is possible to argue with the analysis, but it is not the type of analysis that would depend on whether there was a radar or not to be radar, and therefore the suggestion of canceling an exit in Brdy is a reaction to not placing the radar is materially meritorically out of context. And I would like the debate and all the others who are conducting it to take note of that, because I really stress, if we drop the bill, and then I give the counter-proposal to vote, then we condemn those two thousand people to the next two-year period of waiting for further adjustment of the exit borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another de facto Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I was just waiting to see if radar would come back here on this issue. He really has nothing to do with it, and my previous speaker is right about that. On the other hand, since it's been dropped, as a memorial, I'll tell you one thing. This is not surprising for the Communists, but social democracy bears full responsibility for the fact that now that we are back in a state of imbalance, the Czech Republic must be much more nervous than if there were any, and this was a very decent, military facility. I didn't care if it was directed at Iran or Russia when I voted in favour of it and supported the construction of a radar station. For me, it was essential that it was difficult to climb into a country in the current era of the development of a company in which the United States has military facilities. You'll never get away with that again. If someone wasn't here and he's interested, well, let him read the endless performances of today's foreign minister and his often limitless self-control, screaming, etc. That's what we've been through here week after week, both through interpelling and scoring. I think that this - I only think that we really cannot afford and it is not rational for us to have the largest number of territories per soldier. But what I'm missing from the presentation is that, hand in hand, material should go with it to declare the territory a protected landscape area. Thank you for making a little use of the technical notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please, with another de facto Mr. Chalupa. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u24	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to return from radar to the present law. I have a good feeling about this bill, because even though it was processed by previous governments, it is not so-called in this case. the necessary evil when we passed the laws so that we would not cause more damage, so we passed the laws that we thought were not completely right. We think this law is fine. I just want to say that if the Minister and Chief of Staff, as certain consumers of the service, as experts, tell us that they do not need this military retreat, we should take this very seriously into account, and it is in full line with the expectations of taxpayers in this country, not only with the expectations of taxpayers in two regions, but in the whole Republic. As to the question, why are we so attached to this law being passed or referred to for further reading, I have the opposite question: Why is such an effort to maintain this military retreat as a military retreat? And if there's been talk of vehicles and givens, I think these vehicles need to move to wherever the military needs them, and not just where these vehicles are used to going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another de facto Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'll pick up my colleague Chalupa. We've moved here as an expression of Paris-Dobříš from Brd through Crimea and the United States, Iran all the way to Iraq, but I think that's the nature of the problem - and I'm going to say it in a fairytale way. We're in a situation where we have two neighbors and somebody's giving them a beautiful meadow for free. And the two neighbors, at least one of them, argue: well, maybe we can't get a mole out of that meadow. That's one argument. Two: we don't know exactly how to split the meadow. The third argument: it may be better that the meadow should remain a fallow and thus be preserved. None of these arguments are relevant. I remember the time when this country was covered by military retreats and military retreats of foreign armies, and I am so glad that the army - I hope the fighting and proud Army of the Czech Republic - gives us tourists and mushrooms. We should be grateful for that, not making up arguments about why we shouldn't take this beautiful gift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u27	I thank the honourable Member and the last, so far the last, de facto President of the House, Jan Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u28	I want to promise that it may be really factual on my part, but I have to respond. Firstly, we are here to deal with taxpayers' money in a reasonable way, as Mr Chalupa said. That's why I asked the questions. There's 77 million on one side that we're gonna save. So far, no one's ever been able to answer me how much it's gonna cost, how much it's gonna cost to move troops, how much it's gonna cost, how much it's gonna cost, what it's gonna cost to cancel the 13th Artillery Regiment in Jinka, and how much it's gonna cost to move somewhere else. That's the cost that no one has calculated yet, not even the analysis that's inside the drawer and it's classified, it didn't add up. Ad a). Ad (b). Here on the part of the rapporteur, it was said that we were here to politically implement the conclusions of the General Staff. Well, I'd warn you about that. This has been done several times - and please, I do not want to touch on the current assembly of the General Staff, I respect these generals very much, I regard them as experts - but there has already been a political implementation of the General Staff's expert recommendations here in the past. We have material here that needs to buy time. We have four. We're very happy for them. There's material that needs to be bought by 72 fighters L-159. Thirty-five of them are in the hangars. We have material here - and under all this are signed soldiers and experts - that it is necessary to modernize tank T-72 for modernization M-4. It cost billions. So I'm not saying that this is unprofessionally processed. I am merely saying that we must approach such things with great care and very much submit to the critical assessment of everything that the military is presenting to us. That's what we're here for. And the last one to Mr Komárek, who is no longer here, is through Madam President. The difference between the mole and the unexploded ammo is that the mole won't hurt your leg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u29	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Votava's microphone, which is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, what the President of the House said the last time, I'd like to sign it, about the times and other things, but I'll have a slightly different opinion than he does. I'm only going to talk about Brds, because of course it affects me. This also affects me as a representative of the Pilsen Region and I will therefore express the position of the Pilsen Region, the opinion of the Pilsen Region Council, which adopted the resolution on this issue and this resolution is essentially in agreement with what the Minister of Defence is presenting here today on this law. I would therefore like to say that this bill did not come from the initiative of the Pilsen Region and certainly not from the initiative of the Central Bohemia Region, but from the initiative of the Ministry of Defence, if you want the General Staff, on the basis of some comprehensive analysis which has been prepared. I'm not a military expert, so I'm not gonna judge these things. I will only express the opinion of the Pilsen Region, its municipalities, because this issue has been addressed by a number of negotiations which I have also taken part in, by the mayors of the municipalities concerned, who have, of course, expressed their comments on this law, and I must say that they have all agreed to the solution offered in the law. But I don't think it's gonna hurt a little bit of an excursion into the past, just to figure out how Brdy's military retreat was made. I think it's pretty important. After 1918, i.e. with the emergence of the Czechoslovak army, the military administration had an effort to build artillery training ground, which was already mentioned here, that basically Brdy were intended for training artillery. Thus, the final election fell on this very area in about 1923 and the military shooting range formed in the following years to an area of more than 20,000 hectares. During the occupation of Germany, the area of the shooting range was further expanded and the first inhabitants were also forced to be displaced. After the liberation, they were able to return to their homes, and in 1949 a law was passed on military retreats, which thus affected a number of indigenous communities. If I appoint municipalities on the Pilsen side, it is Dobřív, Kolvín, Mirošov, Padrť, Cinnamon, Strašice, Štítov, Těně or Trokavec. At a secret government meeting five. 2. 1952 was then extended to the present form and the entire territory of the Pilsen Region was then incorporated into the territory of the Central Bohemia Region, due to the fact that the military retreat was complete. I'd like to underline that, too. For decades, the border of the military retreat was literally beyond the gardens of the inhabitants of a number of municipalities on the Pilsen side, a number of municipalities that I had just named. Now for the present. 4. 1. 2012 approved the Government of the Czech Republic optimization of military retreats. Logically, it was decided that the military did not need this territory to this extent. The main reason for optimization is to reduce the number of our army, as the Minister of Defence has already mentioned. So if we had some 115,000 soldiers in 1993, we now have about 25,000. I think the minister said 21,000, but that's not so important, if a few thousand less or more. If there are about half a percent of the area of the earth in the surrounding countries, this is more than threefold in our country. I think that says something, too. It has also been evaluated that in terms of providing training, as well as equipment to move troops, but also economic reasons it is best to release, i.e. the army to abandon, the military escape Brdy. We mean leave like a training area. I don't want to argue about this, as I say, I'm not a military expert, so at least it's presented not only in the optimization, so it's presented in the explanatory report. According to this draft law, the division of borders between the Pilsen Region and Central Bohemia respects the boundaries of historical cadastrals of municipalities prior to the emergence of a military retreat. I would like to underline this - yes, this bill, which raises emotions, and it must be said, it is also visible here at the meeting of the diaper, but it raises emotions of course in the Central Bohemia Region, wakes emotions on the Pilsen side, it returns the cadastras until 1949. Perhaps this - not perhaps, but it is also the core of the poodle, even that is the dispute that may be on both sides, both the Central Bohemian Region and the Pilsen Region, is about that. I'm very sorry. I'm very sorry that these emotions are here and that it's also media-built as a clash between the two regions. But it still is, of course. I would now like to quote from the explanatory report on the bill which I consider important and which also expresses the opinion of the municipalities in the Pilsen Region, the opinion of the Pilsen Region, the opinion of the Pilsen Region Council. I'll quote. [[16.10 hours]] At the forefront of its abolition, we mean Brdy, the legitimate demands of surrounding municipalities on its use to ensure the needs of the inhabitants of drinking water, i.e. full use of surface or groundwater, for which their use is assumed to be sources of drinking water. There is a note that Brdy's retreat area is currently approved as so-called. CHOPAV, which is a protected area of natural water accumulation, to protect its territory, i.e. also from floods, security of transport service, etc. This legitimate requirement also implies the legitimacy of the requirement of adjacent municipalities to restore the historical boundaries of the municipalities and the historical borders of the Pilsen Region. I would like to emphasise once again that the return to the original historical borders is important for the municipalities on the Pilsen side in terms of dealing with flood control measures and protecting drinking water resources. I can remember that every year the river Klabava is being flooded, leaving behind great material damage in the space of the village of Strašice, Hrádek, Rokycany and especially Dýšina, Nová Huť. Who knows this place, ladies and gentlemen, so I'm sure my words will confirm that this problem is really there, but it really is, and that the communities want to solve this problem and must address it in the interests of their citizens, their citizens. A more frequent argument against the opening of a military retreat is the fear of some impenetrable development activity, the destruction of a unique nature, of the fact that developers will go there, that they will start to implement their projects there, now I don't want to say exactly cable cars or slopes or anything like that, but this also sounds something like that. I would like to say that the regional development department of the Pilsen Region had an urban study carried out in 2013 for future use of this territory and there is no development construction in new territories, the study corresponds to the upcoming announcement of the protected landscape area. And a protected landscape area should be declared if the army leaves this area. It should be said that the issue of opening military territory and protecting nature and landscape has also been addressed by the Ministry of Environment. In August 2012, the intention to establish the protected landscape area of Brdy was discussed and approved. a large variant, and it concerned not only the territory of your own refuge, but also partly the territory outside this retreat. According to the information, if I have the right information, the Ministry of the Environment - the Minister is not here now to confirm it or disprove it - prepare the materials for the announcement just CHKO, i.e. a certain care plan, the boundaries of CHKO etc., everything that simply belongs to it. End of závěr. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I would, unlike some other colleagues, allow you to be asked to release this proposal to the second reading so that there is an opportunity to discuss this matter further, to discuss it in committees, and of course I appeal and stress again the opinion of the municipalities on the Pilsen side. I don't want to make passions here, bůh forbid, but the opinion of the Pilsen communities or municipalities on the Pilsen side is clear: open a military retreat, allow municipalities to implement their flood control measures to protect their drinking water reservoirs. I'm asking you to release it for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u31	I thank Mr Václav Votav. Mr Miloš Petera, in his proper application, is now in order. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u32	Mr President, honourable Members. I am, as my previous speaker said, from the Plzeň Region, I am from the other region, where the resolution is different again. I'll sign under most of what my colleague says. Of course, we can have an opinion as to whether environmental protection, as was said in the last part, is better CHKO or military retreat, of course both variants are very good. We do not prevent the option of CHKO and the abolition of the military retreat. Here's the basic problem that's emerging, and here it was said that Brdy's military retreat is divided between two regions. We in Central Bohemia see this as a mistake, because as a single territory is created in a protected landscape area, so it is good when the government is under one region and there is one view of the entire territory. Here it was said that we were going back to the historical era from the point of view of the cadastral before 1949. But here it has to be said that this is not quite true, because, as has been said, several municipalities have ceased to exist, it has been demolished by the government's resolution, where there was a military retreat in their place. And these municipalities belonged to the cadastral, not to the municipalities to which it is assigned today. So it's not entirely true. As for water and drinking water. You know, I've spent my whole life dealing with water management, I'm also a forensic expert. Again it is not entirely true, because water and drinking water and even surface water always belong to the state, which does not belong to the municipalities. The municipalities have only land, but the water belongs to the state and the government decides how it will be treated with water. It is not about these municipalities deciding, but it will always be about the state administration. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Now allow me, because, of course, the issue is very difficult to say a few things. According to the laws in force, in particular the Constitutional Act on the creation of higher territorial administrative units, the abolition of military retreats does not change the jurisdiction of the territory, the district and the county, and therefore there is no reason to change the boundaries of the region even when Brdy's military retreat is abolished. This is also a clear statement from the Institute of State and Law of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic dated 23. 1. 2012. Furthermore, in Section 1, paragraph 2 of the draft law, new cadastral territories are proposed, which are assigned to municipalities in the Pilsen Region, thereby changing the boundaries of the region. The explanatory memorandum shall state historical reasons. This is a very vague justification, because five municipalities were legally and physically abolished 62 years ago, and the rest of the cadastral boundaries differ from the borders before the due date of the law. So the arguments quoted here don't quite hold up. Mr President, I would like to see peace here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u33	I would ask you to remain calm so that my colleague Petera can present his contribution to this matter. I see it didn't just take the Middle Středočech and the Plzeňák, it did all of them. Thus, those who are not interested can move their discussions into the foyer and Petera's colleague may continue. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u34	I believe that for protection, as I have already said, this unique location is a good place to manage it from the point of view of the state administration of one region, namely the Central Bohemia Region. We're starting to think that's the way it's been up to now, and I think it can stay that way. Take that there's a lot of trouble. Today we're talking about traffic. In the Central Bohemia Region I am in charge of transport and it is a huge problem that is being transferred to places because it is not solved by transport transfer to municipalities, because of course it is all military roads today and this solution is not. [[16.20 hours]] You may have registered - and a colleague named Hamáček mentioned that costs were being reduced. I live in a place where we disrupted Milovice's military retreat after the Soviet army. And I can tell you that, as it's designed, all the costs that are said to be saved will have to be bailed out by the army, because it's going to be bailed out by 20,000 acres. Furthermore, it will not hold that part of the military retreat will be preserved, as the Minister says in limited quantities, but the rest, if we want to let the public in, we must bail out within a minimum quantity of up to 60 cm. And you probably know and you watched in the media that there was a bomb just below the surface on Saturday from some time. In conclusion, I would like to say two more things. It was said here, and Mr Stanjura said that we cannot look only at certain territories of two regions and their views. But here I am saying the view of a region that I represent and has a million inhabitants. It is a tenth of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. And that opinion is clear - that the military retreat of Brdy - and now any option will be chosen - should remain in the territory of the Central Bohemia Region. So in conclusion, I would like to incline to what my colleague Hamáček says, so that the law can be redesigned. And we have no comments whatsoever, neither do I, about the four things that are there. That can be presented immediately. But Brdy's military retreat has to be renegotiated, because there was a disagreement with one of the five, a disagreement between two counties. And I think that we, too, in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in the Ministry of Defence, should have respect for the fact that we have self-government, and we should also take into account the reasons set out there. I have the possibility that I have already taken part in negotiations with Minister Vondra and others, so I know what I'm talking about. I've been at these meetings from the beginning. And we've always had a negative opinion that a military retreat would be divided between two regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u35	I thank Mr Miloš Peter. The words will be taken by Mr Zdeněk Soukup... [[You can't see it.]] It's okay. It's okay. And Mr. Antonín Seďa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill before us to abolish Brda's military retreat, as well as a partial raid on the territory of four other military retreats. Of the total area of nearly 130,000 hectares of land, which so far includes military retreats in the Czech Republic, it will return to a more meaningful use of 42,000 hectares. Why the doubt about the purpose of military use? To be in Central Europe in the middle of the cultural landscape between the capital and Plzeň, respectively. Karlovy Vary, they chased pandurs, and the ordinary citizen didn't have access, I personally consider it abnormal. Here I am referring mainly to Brdy's current military retreat and also to the military retreat of Hradiště. I therefore welcome the cancellation of Brdy's escape and the harrowing of Hradiště as a first step. Comparable countries such as: Belgium or Holland do not provide such luxury as the Czech military retreats to their soldiers. They're sending them to practice with us -- maybe just to Hradiště. I see the gradual disruption of military retreats as a kind of debt that we have to the landscape and to the people who lived in it at the time. Before I start talking more about the military retreat of Hradiště on the interface of Karlovy Vary, Central Bohemia and Ústí Region, I recommend to colleagues who have laptops in front of them to enter the password Doupov into the search engine. You'll see pictures, period pictures that you'll never see in real life again. The military retreat of Hradiště was created in the 1950s not in a very humane and gentle way. Most German residents have been used to move here. However, not many Czech residents had to leave as well. And then what happened? With my own eyes, I saw documentary film footage of the training bombing of the once two thousand city of Doupov. Cities with their own grammar school, industrial school and numerous monuments. Today, the foundations of his houses in the landscape are barely visible. In a similar way, five dozen other towns, villages and settlements died in the Doupov Mountains in the area of today's escape Hradiště. This territory was no wasteland like it was today. That was farmland. It was a country with a rich cultural heritage. You can imagine that in the village of Valeč. There is an extraordinary legacy of Baroque monuments. It lies on the very edge of a military retreat. It took part of the Waltz cadastral and for decades prevented locals from developing and tourism. We owe a lot to those newly earmarked territories from a military retreat. But they also represent a great chance and great wealth for us. It is paradoxical that nature has been spared by specific use in the last more than 60 years. In most military retreats, a unique bird reservation was created within the Natura 2000 project. These are foreign currencies that modern tourism can benefit from today. Hunger after getting to know the country is here. After the release of a strict military regime in the last 15 years, cycling has spread in the outskirts of the retreat at least on the weekend. The territory of the abandoned soldiers will need to be integrated into the cultural landscape. Once again, it will be used to a greater extent by a person. It will be necessary to build infrastructure at the level of time, supporting the emergence of new settlements and regional economies. There will be new ownership relationships and perhaps employment opportunities. The territory of the former retreats simply awaits major changes. Let's be reasonable and gentle in implementing them this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u37	I thank Mr Soukup. The words will be taken by colleague Antonín Seďa, and Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, the bill on the optimization of military retreats and the abolition of Brdy's military retreat has been discussed repeatedly in the Defence Committee. The reason for this was a number of unfinished comments from the authorities and members of the committee, which ultimately resulted in the proposal to exempt Brda from the bill and leave only a part of the territory of other military trips. However, this proposal was not accepted by the Ministry of Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the Social Democrats support the fulfilment of the civil rights of two thousand citizens so that they can vote and be elected to local authorities. Therefore, we support the removal of the cadastral of settlement units from military retreats and support the formation of six new municipalities - Polná na Šumava, Bražec, Doupovské Hradiště, Město Libavá, Kozlov and Luboměř pod Strážkou. However, another question is the abolition of Brdy's military retreat in connection with the reduction of training areas. I would like to stress that based on a comprehensive analysis of military retreats, crew range and training sites, it follows that if the army intends to cancel any military retreat, then it should be Brdy, even though they are the most advantageous for training e.g. artillery, military air force or combat in closed space. Although I understand the government's efforts to save some 50 miles. Kroner a year, I'm still not convinced it's a good decision. The first reason for this, honourable Members, is that the removal of ecological and pyrotechnic burdens will cost many tens of millions of crowns, perhaps hundreds of millions of crowns. Even after this rendering, there will be a danger for citizens to enter these premises. It's been said here. The pyrotechnic remediation is done to a depth of 30 cm, while the artillery bullets of various calibers are much deeper. After the cancellation of the military retreat, the army for their training will keep about 560 hectares in this area, apparently for training units 13. artillery regiment from Jinc. It is also a question of whether to disturb the military retreat, where military units are dislocated. [[16.30 hours]] Secondly, I do not understand how, on the one hand, the Ministry of Defence is preparing to cancel the escape and, on the other hand, it intends to maintain over 78 km2 with an entry ban regime. I don't have it verified, but it's supposed to be used to establish a state test polygon for unmanned systems around the air launch area between Tok, Hejlák and Jordan. In other military retreats, it is said that it will not be possible to set up because of future utilization. So I'm asking if we know what we want. Three. The latest events in Ukraine will require a more comprehensive view of future defenses within the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. I really do not want to jump in here as colleagues from the ODS on a proposal from the US Republicans to re-establish negotiations on the location of radar, but I am not sure that we will not need this territory in the near future, for example, to place elements of common missile defense or anti-air defense elements of our country, which is currently being modernised. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, allow me one legislative comment on the draft law relating to paragraph 4 (1). It creates a hidden free privatisation, especially of state-owned forest land, which was purchased by the then Czechoslovak State between 1926 and 1928 on the basis of properly concluded purchase contracts. The actual expropriation of property after the expansion of the military retreat in 1952 was carried out pursuant to Section 10 of Act No. 169/1949 Coll., in the form of compensation of material or financial. This was also recognised by the Court in 1995 in the context of restitution proceedings. For these reasons, I personally support the proposal to exclude the abolition of Brda's military retreat from the proposed bill, or to preserve this military retreat for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u39	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Even before Mr Michal Kučera's enrollment, Mr Josef Vondrášek made a point of fact. Please, colleague, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u40	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think this plug might come in handy. We must also consider that there is a quarter of a billion crowns planned for a survey that will only be a collection. It never goes away. And what has been said here is wrong when pandurs ride between Prague and Plzeň, it is better when pandurs go there, for nature, they keep it than when quadricycles ride undetected parts. So I'd like the numbers, the calculations to be complete so we don't just talk about the fact that, as the minister said, one space makes $10 million. That's negligible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u41	Thank you for keeping time. I'll ask my colleague Kučera to wait. With the factual remark of Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u42	Good afternoon. I've been listening to a few debates about military retreats. I would like to thank the Minister for fulfilling his promise, I have tabled this proposal in the time when he spoke about it during the interviews. And I'm fascinated that some colleagues didn't bother to read the explanatory statement on this proposal. You would read there that, by the way, the Czech Republic has a primacy in that it uses 1.7 percent of the state's size for military journeys, unlike other European countries, only 0.5 percent of the territory is sufficient. Which is the first argument. Second argument. If the Army of the Czech Republic, experts from the Army of the Czech Republic, three ministers in a row decide to design this standard, then who of us here is a greater expert than they and who of us, perhaps gentlemen, you are larger experts, because at least you were in the army, they will question the fact that here it is clear that the military retreats of Boletice, Hradiště and Libavá are fully suitable for training the Army of the Czech Republic units in all kinds of preparations, including cooperative exercises involving all types of troops and common alliance exercises. The Brdy military retreat is primarily intended for the training of artillery, but due to the area of training areas does not allow full training of mechanized units. In view of the specific determination of the Brezina military retreat, it is necessary to maintain this retreat. On page 24, if you had read the explanatory report, you would have read that in recent years there has been a significant reduction in combat shootings and that in 2010 fighting shootings were carried out eight days, in 2011 only four days. So please let the experts on this matter say their opinion, which none of us please do not question, because which one of us was even in those Brdech to see what it looks like. [[Timeout alert]] Excuse me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u43	Madam, I'm tolerance alone, but your time is up. Once again, I have a factual point, from my colleague Antonín Sed, and then from my colleague Novotný. Then perhaps, finally, a colleague of Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must say through your help to my colleague Černochová that I have not only read a thorough explanatory report, but also an analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u45	Thank you. Now, Mr Novotný. I'm sure he'll bring us closer to the situation in another military retreat. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u46	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I must agree, of course, that there are a large number of military retreats in our Republic, that there is a large area, but please, it is also necessary to remember when we transfer these military retreats to the authorities, that the people who live there also have the right to ensure that the transition is smooth and secure. Read Section 10, which states that what currently worked there means education, transportation, garbage removal, etc., will be secured by the army for nine months. Nine months. Those who did mayor or something like that in nine months, you know well, before the mayor even gets elected there, before the authorities even set up there, they're nine months away, and those communities are gonna be safe. It was said here that 200 million dollars was spent on communication. What in God's name is that? That's a few crowns. Get over there and see what kind of communication they're in! That's amazing! Soldiers keep the best there is, chase, woods, etc. And municipalities get what's left of them, including broken roads, unsecure education, health care, etc. So, of course, I can't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u47	I thank Mr Novotný and Mr Michal Kučera is now duly signed in. I already called him in, gave him my word. And then one more point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u48	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I understand the reasons for the government, with which it introduces the Act on the abolition of the military retreat of Brda in particular from the point of view of optimization of military retreats and analysis of their need for the Army of the Czech Republic. But let us look at the abolition of Brda's military retreat in terms of environmental protection. We must realise that Brdy is a unique landscape total on our scale, which has been preserved in this form to date mainly because of the existence of protection, which was provided by the military retreat. And I ask, how will the conservation of nature and landscape be ensured after the abolition of a military retreat? Will we see a development raid that turns the preserved nature of Brd into a huge carnival? Will we rely on the territorial plans of municipalities, which may not always respect the social interest of preserving this unique landscape unit? I believe that if we want to interrupt Brdy's military retreat, then after the date of the announcement and the extent of the protected landscape area has been clarified, which will take on at least part of the guarantee of nature conservation in Brdy's military retreat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u49	I thank Mr Kučer. Mr Josef Vondrášek, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Stanislav Mackovík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u50	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as a soldier in the basic service, and as mayor living in Brdy, I would like to promise my fellow mayor, Černochová, that I will write her a fairy tale, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u51	Thank you especially for keeping time. With a factual remark before Mr Mackovík, Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u52	Hello, thank you for your word. I have a general remark which does not concern only this law. We are part of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and our speeches should not reveal where we are from. We're here to defend the state's interest. So I would very much like to ask colleagues who are performing and, in fact, logically lobbying for their particular electoral area, because there will be some elections again, so that we do not continue in series of individualities and try to talk about the interest of the Czech Republic. I'm not saying whether one or the other escape should be preserved, because I do not understand. But we are Members of the Republic, we are no longer Members of the Plzeň or, in my case, Brno. Republic!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u53	I thank Mr Pavel Blažek. Mr Stanislav Mackovík will take the floor and Mr Stanislav Grospič will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to speak with a proposal that has already been made here by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček, which means that the bill is to return the petitioner to the recast, so the KSČM club is claiming this because the law has a number of shortcomings. As has already been said here in the previous debate, there are things that do not respect the opinion of one region, and that is quite significant, the Central Bohemia Region, there are things that do not respect the transition to a protected landscape area. There are things that basically don't solve the protection of the territory after the army leaves, and that area can basically become an unguarded environment that will be devastated. Also in the accompanying report, in the explanatory memorandum, there are indications of how much it costs us to maintain the operation of an existing military retreat. I doubt the figures that are there because I believe that there are also the costs of operating the department that is there so far, and the actual amount, let's say, about 7 miles. to the given space, it is much lower than the one mentioned there. Another thing that is there is that this military retreat is applicable to virtually all types of troops that are still left in the Czech army, including the Air Force. In the explanatory report, I did not find a detailed breakdown of how we would cope with the age-old military burden that is there, that is, revitalizing the territory, removing all the mines and all the ammunition that remained there. This is not at all detailed, including the economic analysis that should be there. I think it would be really appropriate to redefine this law, to respect the views of the two regions concerned, and then to come back to the House with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u55	I thank Mr Stanislav Mackovík. Mr Stanislav Grospič will take the floor and Mr Jiří Zimola will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I would first of all like to say that I have a conflict of interest, because I am from the Central Bohemia Region, although not directly from the Brd area, and I am very specifically aware of the developments that take place around the Brd and the Brd Military Departure. As ourselves and as Central Bohemia, we probably do not have a significant problem with the bill proposed here in the Chamber of Deputies, but we nevertheless consider the unilateral decision to abolish Brda's military retreat as unhappy and unbalanced with a number of question marks. I would not like to argue with the question that is also being discussed here, which is perhaps a question for the representative of the Ministry of Defence, to what extent Brdy's military retreat is the easiest in terms of cancellation for the Czech state and how much it will cause the least complications, given that relatively large territory, which is also a significant source of wood and water from the point of view of property law, will not cause complications to third parties, hence other costs in terms of settlement, but can potentially bring profit in terms of efforts to place various developers and certain projects that will hack into the unique nature of Brd and the Brd Massif. In this context, we also find it most difficult to translate the draft law on the establishment of the protected landscape area of Brd, which is being discussed here, and the maps and intentions of how this protected landscape area might look and how much it will then touch life in the municipalities are constantly changing significantly and the results are quite uncertain. So, on the one hand, there may be a potential "marginal investigation in terms of the Ministry of Defence's costs." This will be offset by a very disproportionate burden for the Czech state if it wants to revitalize the territory, i.e. to rid it of the ballast of ammunition, because the space has a relatively long history, was used mainly by the artillery of the Czech army, and potentially open it to the public on a wider scale than it is today, and this leads to the possibility that it is already partially open to the public today and that some routes are made available for cycling, so it will bear a great disproportionate burden for the future. I think that disproportionate in terms of savings as they are built in the Ministry of Defence's explanatory report and link them to savings in connection with the abolition of this space. I don't want to potentially anticipate solutions here that may be looming in connection with the negotiation of this law. I think that my support has priority to return this law to the petitioner for completion, but also, if the Chamber of Deputies had not found the will to return it, it certainly would have extended the time limit for the hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u57	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. Mrs Jana Černochová's point of view. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u58	I wanted to ask too much. Let's stop haunting by destroying nature. Let's admit it here and say it out loud. Which one of you guys sucks in there? Which one of you guys goes to the chase? So let's just say it here. And please don't make excuses for the fact that it won't open, that it will be destroyed because there will be greater public access and that nature will somehow be devastated there. It doesn't. Today it really serves on special allowances for a few chosen. And I would very much like to go there as a citizen of the Czech Republic, not in a year, but in two or three years to look and see nature, which you are so scattered about, how amazing it is. But it's amazing and available only for someone. For you, maybe in the Central Bohemia Region. She is not available to me as a Prague Member and I would like her to be in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u59	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. By your means, I would like to say to Mrs Černochová that this is just a matter of more interest to Brd, and then she will find that the substantial part of Brdy's military retreat today has been open to the public for several years and that it is not potentially impossible for a person to visit Brd space. I've been there myself several times. Perhaps it can be said that regularly, I have a certain personal bond with the Brds. [[16.50 hours]] And in this discussion, I think that the nature that we often talk about here and bend it in several pejoratives and on various other occasions, precisely thanks to the protection and protection of the entire space by being designed for the needs of the Czech army, is provided by the protection of nature the highest, which no protected landscape area can currently secure at the level of Czech legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u61	I thank Mr Grospič for his time. Mr. Colleague, also with a point of order? There's a better electronic application. Please, another factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u62	I'll be brief. I would turn here to experienced matadors to tell me how Mr. Kocáb managed to achieve that Russian troops had left our territory, because they also may have taken up perhaps ten times twenty times the territory we are discussing here, and they have left. That means, if God forbid the troops were here today, we'd be discussing that they can't leave because we don't know what to do with nature, we don't know what to do with unexploded ammunition, etc. I was recently in Prášily, this is in Sumava, where I was on the bike path where I went, because there was no snow, and everywhere there were tables "attention, unexploded ammunition" in German, Czech, English and made a blue line. I don't know when the army ended up there, but I think it's been at least 20 years, and it works. So far, I haven't found a thank God case that someone stepped on a grenade, they're not gonna blow up ammo. Our engineers go to Bosnia where they go to help our friends deminerate, so I'm sure there's room and resources to mine our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u63	I thank Mr Hájek. I'd tell him what's going on in Sumava. I won't. With a factual remark, Mr Jakubčík. Maybe he'll answer for me about Sumava in Dustily. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not talking about Sumava. I've been talking about Sumava a lot, but it's true there's no problem with Dusty. Question Brd. I spent almost 12 years of my life on Brd, when I used to go there as a professional soldier, where I dealt with ammo, I just dealt with this. Yes, it's true there's a lot of unexploded ammunition. On the other hand, it is true that all the engineers of the Czech army are currently working and mining there. There's a bailout. That's another thing. I strongly support this bill. I am a Member of the Pilsen Region and I am concerned, as my colleague Votava said here, that the municipalities that are there, who are interested in being in the Pilsen Region, should be in the Pilsen Region. For many and many reasons. Mr. Votava spoke of it again. Furthermore, I am bound by the resolution of the Plzeň Region's representative. That means I strongly support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u65	Thank you. And before I give the floor to Mr Jiří Zimol, I will announce my apologies. Mr Robin Böhnisch also apologizes for this afternoon's meeting for health reasons, and Minister Richard Brabec also apologizes for the meeting. Mr Jiří Zimola will now take the floor, Mr Jiří Pospíšil will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, allow me, although I realize that we have a rather long discussion on this subject to delay you and to introduce you in a few minutes to the position taken by the South Bohemian Region on this matter, on whose territory the military escape of Boletice lies. I stress that the South Bohemia Region has actively negotiated and participated in the present form of the law throughout the negotiation of the bill. During several meetings of the Committee of the Ministry of Defence for the Optimization of Military Departures, things connected with territorial issues, practical issues of performance of the separate and delegated powers of newly created municipalities, as well as issues of activities of newly created municipalities, elections to municipal councils etc. were discussed. It can be acknowledged that they participated in such a difficult task by both the Minister referred to by the central administrative authorities, whether it was the Ministry of Interior, Agriculture, Defence, the environment, finance, local development, higher or lower local authorities or other bodies concerned, including the preparatory committees for the formation of new municipalities, and last but not least, several of the mentioned negotiations took place with the people of military refuges. Thanks to this, we managed to create a bill that affects both the issue of the abolition of the military retreat of Brda and the optimization of other military retreats, which is the topic of the South Bohemia Region and Boleticek. It is undoubtedly not necessary, given the needs of the Army of the Czech Republic, such an area of military retreats is currently not necessary on the territory of the Czech Republic, which was originally dimensioned to another form of the Army of the Czech Republic and to perform other tasks. Of course, the needs of military retreats have changed due to developments in the last 20 years, especially in connection with the membership of the Czech Republic in the North Atlantic Alliance. Therefore, the intention to optimize military retreats is certainly necessary and socially beneficial. The issues associated with this are diverse: ensuring the financing of municipalities or the addition of settlements to existing municipalities outside military refuges, ensuring the existence and functioning of self-government in newly emerging municipalities, defining the cadastral territories of newly emerging municipalities, supplying these municipalities with basic raw materials, water, electricity, gas, etc., transfer of assets to or management of these newly emerging municipalities. Not an unimportant question is also the changes in the borders of the regions, although this issue is not related to the South Bohemia Region, and therefore to the military retreat of Boletice. These problems are now being addressed by the draft law. The South Bohemia Region made several major comments during the negotiation process, which, however, also concern other military retreats as a result. In short: The provisions of the municipality administrator in the proper election of the municipality's self-government should be enshrined directly in the law, including the reference to the relevant regulation of Act No. 128, Municipalities Act. The property transferred to the ownership of the regions should be in the appropriate technical condition. This is mainly about communication, and it would therefore be appropriate for both the body of communication and the land under this communication to pass to the border. Demand that the pyrotechnic cleansing take place everywhere and not only on the territory of the most discussed military retreat Brdy today. Or a requirement to allow construction of buildings in the public interest as well as for local authorities, not just for business entities. It is fair to say that most of our region's comments have been granted, and I would like to thank the petitioners for that. However, there are several issues, my dear colleagues, who should not escape your attention, and it is then up to you to consider how crucial these matters are and how much the law in this form can either be allowed to continue reading or to return it to work. What's the big deal? I really see the most fundamental problem in the fact that the original promise of the Ministry of Finance is not fulfilled, which in the initial stage of negotiations declared the willingness to create a guarantee fund for newly created municipalities in the territory of current military retreats in the sense of pre-financing the necessary activities of the municipality. It is true, and it was mentioned here by my colleague, Governor Novotný, of the Karlovy Vary Region, that the Ministry of Defence subsequently took on the guarantee of certain activities for nine months, and thus partly assumed the commitments to facilitate life in the new municipalities for the Ministry of Finance. But please note how difficult it will be to start all activities in the new community, what will be needed in the early months and perhaps years, and that it is therefore irresponsible to these new municipalities and de facto regions, because there will be the first complaints of the municipalities and their inhabitants to address the matter only this way. [[17,00 hours]] I am afraid that this threatens the very existence of new municipalities, as it may be problematic to motivate anyone to exercise a representative mandate in these new municipalities under such financial conditions. All of this, taking into account the fact that the result of the negotiations on the transfer of state property to the newly created municipality - I apologize, but in the case of the South Bohemia Region it is Polná in Šumava - so that this negotiation ended as one big compromise. The state didn't want to give any of the interesting property, logically, and the preparatory committee of which the community also logically wanted everything. Resumé is such that the newly created municipalities will be the outdated housing fund, obsolete water management infrastructure, several possible interesting areas in the intravilion of municipalities, a few are forest in a better case. And the hopeful expectation that they will receive around 10,000 per capita in the framework of their budgetary determination of taxes. On the expenditure side after nine guaranteed months of the Ministry of Defence, however, unpaid invoices for the maintenance of local roads, not to mention their necessary repairs, there will be electricity bills for public lighting, the operation of the municipal authority, the costs of operating the water infrastructure, in the worst case also invoices for solving some emergency situations on them and mainly the maintenance of the housing and non-residential fund. Let's not be illusions about how all current apartment users will be willing to buy these apartments. If so, it will be at such a price, from which de facto the municipality will have nothing. If the municipality determines commercial prices, it will buy apartments with tenants a variety of speculators and create a social problem. And there are many examples of this from quite recent history that I am not exaggerating. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, once again, I understand that I understand the efforts of lawmakers to get rid of unnecessary property and, as the governor of the region, I rejoice that I am increasing my region's size in a non-expansive way by 2,840 hectares. However, I am expressing my concern here that by rejecting the state's position on a certain starting-up financial package for new self-government, it will not create a prelude for various speculators who will de facto fail the municipality for financial assistance or for interesting property promises. The regions, and I believe that other regions concerned, are also prepared to help new municipalities with administration, to conduct methodically in the management of property, economic aspects, in the development of budgets in other matters, but it is not possible, it is not possible for the state to get rid of its problem and it went to the burden of other, usually higher local authorities. This happened quite regularly earlier in the last few governments. I think it is time to leave this practice and create really correct relations between municipalities, regions and the state. Please remember these words in your subsequent decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u67	I thank Mr Jiří Zimol for his speech. Mr Jan Zahradník, then Mr Jiří Pospíšil, with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I have some experience in preparing a similar material that we are discussing today, because the South Bohemian Region, between 2004 and 2008, dealt very seriously with the idea of abolishing or reducing the military retreat of Boletice. The negotiations with the military were quite promising until it gained quite a powerful ally in all possible nature conservation organizations. Once again, there was this opinion that was mentioned here today, as if under the military administration, the nature is doing the best it can. Even then I heard such an opinion, such a concept - military management of nature conservation. And that's what I always laughed about, because the argument that the whales are doing the best when tanks are running and their vegetation is being spread in this way, that's what I thought was really absurd. I agree with Mr. Governor and Mr. Zimola that it is necessary to ask the State very strongly not to leave the municipalities without funds, if any. I think, therefore, that if I follow the debate that is going on here, and that debate is, of course, meritorically directed towards the problem of Brdy's military retreat, and we will vote, as it stands, the vote can be fairly balanced. None of us can bet on how it ends. But I would like to intercede for the vote on Brdy's escape and its abolition in any way, let us not reject, together with him, the idea of reviewing military retreats, which are further part of the law. And these are all the other retreats that are mentioned in the law. In my opinion, the material is very well prepared. It is quite understandable and I think it also offers quite a good potential for the future for regional governance, for the management of our country's territory. I think our army has an abundance of military space, and the idea of reducing this territory is, in my opinion, fundamentally correct. Therefore, I am still intercede again to consider this law responsibly and not to tie it up only and only with the military retreat of Brdy and its abolition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u69	I thank Mr Zahradník and for his indirect reply to Mr Hájek's question of how long it has been reserved in Prášily. Now, Mr Jiří Pospíšil, Mr Jan Volný will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also take part in this debate, not only because I am a Member of the Pilsen Region, but mainly because I have watched very closely as a Member, but also as a member of the Government of the preparation of this material, which, as has already been said, began to prepare and, in principle, prepared by Minister of Defence Alexandr Vondra. And you know that he was neither of Pilsen nor of the Central Bohemia Region, and therefore the material can also be considered objective and material, which can be considered as a material that deals with the problem that might have been abolished in the future of Brdy's military retreat. I really want to make a brief statement only on the subject of Brdy, because I am often from the position of deputy and minister and I must say that the proposal that lies before you today has my full support. It is processed completely professionally, factually, on the basis of several years of debate between representatives of self-government, state administration experts and on the basis of a debate between individual ministries, especially between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. In short, and well, I do not come out here from the title that I am from the Plzeň Region, and therefore I defend the option suitable for Plzeň, but I am acting out of the title that the variant which is proposed here and which seems to suit the Plzeň Region in quotation marks is appropriate, in my opinion, because it protects the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic, those who live in the Rokycany district, and further defends, let's say, the rights of citizens living in the part of the Plzeň-South district. It seems logical and correct to me when Brdy's military retreat is lifted, to resort without any emotion and debate, who is from Central Bohemia and who is from the Pilsen Region, to such a solution that will best protect the interests and rights of the citizens of the Pilsen Region. And it needs to be said here, and I stress that the experts have assessed that for the citizens of the Czech Republic who live in Rokycansko, the most appropriate and the best solution is if the original restoration of the cadastral of villages in Rokycansko occurs, because only such restored historical cadastrals can guarantee citizens quality life in this area. It has already been appointed here by Mr Votava, with whom I agree on this matter, and I will only repeat this: It is clear that only the original historical cadastrals can provide enough drinking water for citizens in Rokycansk. On the other hand, even within the original historical cadastrals, it will be possible to face the dangers of various floods, which unfortunately have been growing in Rokycansko in recent years - see problems associated with the Klabava River for example last year. The topics of the transport service and the topics of the region's development have already been mentioned here. [[17.10 hours]] I therefore beg you, ladies and gentlemen, if you are following an emotional debate here today between Members of the Pilsen and Central Bohemia Region in quotation marks, by extension the debate that has just been going on between the Central Bohemia Region and the Pilsen Region, come out of the solution proposed by experts and central government authorities after several years of debate. That's what I think is the most appropriate and honest solution. It is certainly more honest and more appropriate than the material to postpone and to continue artificially prolonging the debate that has lasted for several years. In that matter, in my opinion, there's nothing left to solve. The debates were held, the ministers gradually visited incriminating territories within a few years, the Ministry of Defence discussed with the Ministry of Interior, the material was discussed several times in various governments with the same conclusion. With such a conclusion as to restore the original cadastrals, to restore the original border of the Pilsen Region and to ensure that the rights of the citizens of Rokycanska and Pilsen of the South are properly and adequately protected and respected. That's my request, please. And I am not saying this, as I have already said, as a Member of the Pilsen Region, but I am saying this as a person who wants the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic to be adequately protected. I say this as a member of the central legislature who knows which solution can protect citizens' interests sufficiently. Let me do one more thesis. I believe that, in addition to this proposal, the government will have to deal very quickly with the emergence of a protected landscape area, so that, in particular, those natural parts of the territory are sufficiently protected and preserved. It is a myth, please, and I want to say here that it is necessary for this reason, for reasons of protection, to preserve the entire military retreat of Brdy within one, i.e. the Central Bohemia Region. There's no reason for that. We have examples that we can name here, when other protected landscape areas spread out in more regions. In short, a form of state protection within the CHKO is a completely different form of public authority than a certain administration or self-government of a particular territory. So please, the argument with CHKO and the unity of the Central Bohemia Region is false and false in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to extend this debate any further because all the arguments have been made here recently and have also been made here in plenary. I am only asking you very much, and that is the main reason for my speech in this debate, which often carries signs of emotionality, do not let yourself be drawn to some emotional arguments and let us support the solution that contains the government's proposal. It is a solution approved by three governments, approved gradually by three defence ministers, worked on it for several years, this solution was sufficiently discussed. As I have already said, this solution is the only solution in relation to the Brds that can protect citizens' rights sufficiently and unambiguously, either in Brds or around Brds, and have the right to provide them with, say, sufficient regime and protection against floods, to provide them with drinking water, transport service, etc. I therefore beg you to support this proposal in the form that the Government puts it forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u71	I thank Mr Jiří Pospíšil. Mr Jan Volný will now take the floor, Mr Karel Šidlo will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, fellow Members He hastened to say it here, basically, as I wanted to say it. I'm just gonna make it a little more specific. I may have been one of the few of you who took a look at Brdech, and I was part of that meeting with the mayor. I went there thinking that as the former mayor and the current mayor of the village, which lies on the border of a protected landscape area, I would be able to help create the future of this region and I would be able to say some advice regarding a protected landscape area. I was appalled that, in fact, the only objective of the opposition party there to discuss the absence of a military retreat was that this landscape be spared and protected. She didn't care how it was gonna go down, she didn't want it to be a military retreat. It's basically even today's debate. I was appalled by the fact that someone might think that the Department of Defense with its budget will finance the maintenance and quality of the landscape area. After all, there are completely different institutions and completely different systems. It was basically the only argument of those mayors who defended the maintenance of a military retreat - to keep us here nice. I'm surprised we're using the argument here that cleaning this space would be expensive. It may not be cheap, but we don't want to leave this area polluted for another five, ten, fifteen years. It's gonna have to be cleaned up anyway, whether it's a military retreat, or whether it's a CHKO. I'll give you an example, as Mr. Pospíšil suggested here. Slavkovský les, an incredibly beautiful protected landscape area, which is situated on two regions, colleagues, and on four districts. The fact that developers would drive in there and start building some nonsense buildings, I personally have land there, I have an old car accident I want to repair, and I've been supplying new and new projects for a year to fit into a protected landscape area. It's really odd stuff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u73	Ambassador, I'm gonna cut you off for a little while and ask for some peace. I would like us to be able to give our speeches in peace, and those who are interested in discussing something other than the government's bill, let them pass their discussions outside the Chamber. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u74	It seems to me that this discussion is starting to create for 35 permanent residents - yes, 35 permanent residents - who live in this area, a complete pasquil and a complete patvar, which will be a military retreat without soldiers and it will be a protected landscape area without tourists. The only thing I see positive about this, and for me as a young and new Member of instruction, how few people can do such an incredibly strong lobby, so that the clear thing, when the Ministry of Defence wants to cancel an unnecessary escape, integrate it into a perfectly standard structure of self-government, and we are discussing it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u75	I thank Mr Volný for his speech. The words will be taken by Mr Karel Šidlo and prepared by colleague Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Members of the government, my fellow Members, allow me to add to the spectrum of information and arguments that are here about the interference of the Brda military retreat and the change in the borders of other military retreats of the Czech Republic, one information that has not been mentioned, even if it has been announced by the rapporteur. He mentioned a letter from the citizens of the Pilsen municipalities, which is adjacent to Brdy's military retreat. Nearly two thousand of them are signed under this letter. Signatories that actually brought it all up are citizens of Mirošov and representatives of Míšov. And these are the two communities that are directly affected by this. Let me quote this letter to make everything public here, because I will also fulfill a certain commitment that I have given to these citizens. They are from our region, and they wanted you to be informed of this by all those who will be involved in the decision-making of this crucial matter. So let me quote: "We below signed citizens ask the Government of the Czech Republic to reconsider our position on the abolition of the military training area Brdy. At the same time, we ask Members of the Chamber of Deputies not to accept this intention and not to vote to abolish this military area. We therefore submit this requirement because it cannot justify the economic costs of operation and maintenance of the military training area. This space is fully free of restitution claims, unlike other military areas, where considerable amounts of rent are paid, and yet it is not considering abolishing them. Unlike the leaders of the Department of Defence, we claim that this space allows training of all the elements of the Army of the Czech Republic, including aircraft. In recent years, other NATO armies have also used it to their satisfaction, which according to the information, has paid a considerable amount of money for the lease. [[17.20 hours]] We ask that the area be kept in military training mode and we propose that any conservation of the situation be maintained, at any time in the future, by the State to deal with this area according to the needs for the welfare of all citizens. It is a unique natural area in the heart of the Czech Republic, which performs an important function of water management, supplying drinking water in a wide area including Příbram, Rokycan, Hořovice and other medium and smaller villages. No less important is the impact on landscape formation, microclimate formation and protection of protected species of animals and plants. By narrowing the training area in the state and stockpiling it into smaller areas, the devastation of these spaces will be inevitable because nature will not be able to recover as it has been so far. All training military spaces are paradoxically the most protected territories in the Czech Republic with preserved nature and unique plant and animal species. We do not believe that the creation of a protected landscape area will really protect this territory from the efforts of developers and various lobbyists to build here recreational facilities and other buildings, similarly declared necessary for the general public. Be sure to preserve this unique territory to our descendants while there is still something to preserve." Finally, allow me to make one more comment, because my colleague Votava here spoke about how the mayors agreed to the bill. I must stress that 2 000 citizens of the municipalities of these mayors have just signed the opposite and handed it over to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u77	I thank Mr Karel Šidl for his speech. And so far, Mr Václav Zemek is the last member of the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, we have heard a number of arguments here for and against, actually this law was originally about changing the boundaries of military retreats, but it turned into a debate whether to cancel or not to cancel Brdy's military retreat. There were various arguments from the military area, there were cited by various experts who, as well as evaluated the need for a military departure of Brdy, also evaluated for example. purchase of pandurs and purchases of CASA aircraft. I'm not gonna judge that. I would like to give myself a glimpse of a man who has been engaged in the long-term conservation of nature and landscape. I've been in this area for ten years professionally, so allow me this slightly different view. [[It's busy in the hall.]] As I listened to the individual outputs, I didn't notice that anyone wouldn't want to protect the territory in any way. Let's get out of this. And now we have a few options. Of course, the territory is worth it, especially if it stays solid. Let's say what we want, if we compare from the point of view of valuable natural sites military retreat Brdy, military retreat Libá, military retreat Boletice, so the last two are e.g. for setting up a CHKO more suitable than a military retreat Brdy. Who was there, I've been there several times, so I'm sure he knows most of the territory is made up of spruce monocultures. From the point of view of the valuables or diversity of species, Brdy's space isn't valuable enough to be declared there. The only valuable sites there are paradoxically, and here I will respond a little to my colleague, the Zahradník, the permanently damaged areas, where artillery grenades are currently falling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u79	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask my colleagues for peace again. We've got the last logged in, some of the people from the scene are still reporting, but I'd like us to finish the hearing in order. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u80	Thank you. I'll get back to it. Paradoxically from the point of view of variety of species, the most valuable are the permanent damaged areas. And if we shut down the military space and the army leaves and the areas are not damaged, even the rarest species that are present in the Brd area will disappear. Besides these aspects, there's another thing. Most areas are protected areas of natural water accumulation. If we somehow split up the territory, we're gonna take some precautions, I don't want to say developers, so we're gonna lose this territory again. And what's more valuable than the sources of drinking water that are dwindling in our country? Look at how many new warehouses and new halls we're pulling over today. And here we are going to lose another part of the territory. There's been some argument about flood protection. Here it must be said that even if we transfer the territory or the cadastrals to the municipalities, the municipalities will not decide anyway, that is what the river basin manager decides. And it's always better that whoever decides it is a state than some private subjects. That's a long-term experience. For these reasons, I will vote in favour of my colleague Hamáček's proposal to get back to work, and today I will not support this amendment to go through the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u81	I thank Mr Václav Zemek. Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek has now signed up for the debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u82	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been a long one, drawing attention to a number of problems. I don't want to repeat them. Allow only the brief opinion of TOP 09. We believe that every decision must have its strategic priorities. This means the first decision is to answer the question whether or not the military retreat of the Czech Army needs or needs. If it does not need, and there is no doubt about it, then it is absurd for us to keep it for the needs of the Army of the Czech Republic, because military retreats are set up for this, and the problems that have been raised here and which we do not underestimate at all are, in our view, solvable at the next stage of the legislative process. In any case, we will support the release for second reading. However, we believe that the time limit should be extended, and I would like to propose an extension of the time limit to 120 days. What bothers us the most is the fact that the entire time that the previous governments, in one of them we were involved, prepared the abolition of Brdy's military retreat, so it was always prepared so that it would be prepared in parallel and submitted a legislative proposal to establish a protected landscape area. There seems to have been some kind of dyscoordination here and that it is most likely that this proposal can be presented, which, of course, cannot be the fault of the current Minister of the Environment, will be delayed, but this is also, in our opinion, solvable, for example. by considering, at second reading, the appropriate delay of effectiveness until the date before the legislation on the protected landscape area can be approved. Nor does anyone doubt that municipalities in the area of financial support will need financial support for a transitional period. Mr. Zimola spoke of it. I just want to point out that no one has ever promised a fund. That it is a matter of government and regions and municipalities to agree, within the framework of an existing subsidy programme, to grant subsidies to municipal authorities, the corresponding amounts that appear in the budget for this purpose. It is a matter of agreement and it is a matter of the relevant costs of extraordinary costs incurred by the municipalities. But to change budgetary legislation and to establish any funds I would consider absolutely counterproductive. This can be addressed within the existing budgetary structure. So once again, we take very seriously the whole series of objections that have fallen here. None of them can, however, be a reason not to approve this law. They can only be a reason for us to deal with them at the next stage of the legislative process, and therefore the TOP 09 Members will support the release for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u83	Thank you to President Miroslav Kalousek. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking who's still checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It is. I can see from both the Minister and the rapporteur. Please, Minister, with the final word as a petitioner. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it was probably an exhausting debate, but I'm sure it wasn't entirely uninteresting. I'll try to answer a few questions. Although I could imagine as a title: The Czech Army does not want anything after a long time. It seems a shame not to use it. That's the first half. And the other half: a lot of citizens, I think, want nature. It may seem too trivial to you, but maybe sometimes she's overdressed from the other side again. [[17.30 hours]] There were questions like what the driving force was. I don't know about any other driving force but the fact that I'm trying to keep the military from spending so that we don't leave her what she doesn't want, and to allow it to be used by citizens. X-times has been explained where they will practice artillery that movements are part of the exercise that the army has the means to do it. X-times have been explained how to phase the decontamination of the environment. X-times have been explained that those and those citizens will not have a problem, virtually. their children, with the fact that they don't get to school at Brdy's retreat, where no child is even compulsory by school. There were a number of things. But, you know, I'm a little sorry about the fact that many of you here said that the preparation and the debate was serious, that it lasted a long time and that it actually covered all the problems. And some people said it was happening about them without them. I don't know which one's true. I put it out there knowing that I've done the best I could in the last two months, knowing the work that my predecessors have done on it, and that it's also worth something, and knowing the investment, not just ours, but other devices. And the job was just obvious and honest. No draft will be completely perfect and none will take into account, process and address every single small aspect. But I think that the general interest in this whole thing clearly prevails - it is this simple - the general interest in the military not having an escape, which does not need us to look for substitute arguments as to why it is or is not true. It's a small turn. I confess to you that I am a little concerned when the competence of the Chief of Staff needs to be questioned. And that's not because he tamed me in two months, but that's a guy with something behind him, and there's x people who really don't need to make up some secret or whatever motivation for their actions. I think there's one thing left behind. Entering those retreats is an exception. The exception for those who live there, the exception for those who may be working there temporarily, and then the exception. And that's kind of the fungus exception. And I can tell you that there are several thousand exceptions, that it is within the jurisdiction of local mayors and, of course, the administration that the Military Forests are carrying out there, and that it is certainly not uninteresting to grant those exceptions. You know, bomb squad references-- I'm sorry, but those are the people who have been through Afghanistan and who are just there to detect these things. It's a tough job, it's a dangerous job. They maintain the exact standards that apply. So talk about it like the job's sloppy or how much it's gonna cost... We know how much it's gonna cost, but that's no reason not to. In addition, it is made and would be maximum done in the course of training even in the future. So, you know, I feel like whoever wants to beat up a dog... it's a shame. That it's a shame, because it's a big deal to me, and I'm not from either or from the other region. So I believe you'll consider it objectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u85	I thank the Minister for the final word. Now, the rapporteur's final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u86	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I wanted two points. First of all, we have not commanded, and so please, the Commandments of the Defence Committee. Secondly, I will support the proposal already formulated to extend the deadline between first and second reading to 120 days because the real interest of 2 000 citizens requires that we have the opportunity to find a compromise and not agree to the law and start all of this again. I saw all the strong objections, I heard them on the committee. A compromise solution is needed. Consider the 120 days or deferment, and especially for this reason, I would ask that we support the law until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u87	Thank you, rapporteur, for the final word, but your comments on the extension of the deadline are irrelevant at the moment, because it is an extension of more than 20 days and we must have the agreement of the appellant, so I rather expect the Minister's petitioner to agree to the extension for the Government or not, because otherwise it would not have been possible, but Kalousek knows this very well. Before we vote - I don't need it right now, because it has to be discussed, of course, and as far as the defense committee is concerned, it is already proposed. So I'm gonna ask you one more question. But, Minister, if you're ready for that extension right now... I would rather not open the debate until later. But as you wish, you can. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u88	Yes. It's that simple, yes, 120 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u89	Okay, I'll take that as the plaintiff's approval, and so we can proceed to the individual items that are to be voted on. I will ask the rapporteur because I have not been directing the whole point to check if I am putting all the proposals to the vote. In the debate, there was no motion for rejection, but a motion for repayment of the proposal to the applicant for completion fell, and then the proposal for a hearing fell within a longer period with the agreement of the applicant pursuant to Paragraph 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on Rules of Procedure. First, then, we will deal with the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. But first, I'm going to check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the situation has settled, I will begin voting on the proposal for the recovery of the proposal for revision. It'll be vote number 18. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of returning the bill to the appellant for revision. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 18 of the presence 178 for 72, against 94. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. There was a proposal in the debate on the Defence Committee. This proposal was also submitted by the Organising Committee to the Chamber of Deputies. So we're going to be dealing with a motion to discuss the defence committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, I see. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your motion for the commandment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u90	I would suggest ordering the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u91	Yes, thank you, the environmental proposal. Who else has a motion for a commandment? It's not like that. We will vote on these two proposals. First, the Commandment of the Committee on Defence in the vote number 19, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 19 of the presence 178 for 176, against 1. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the draft commandment of the Committee on the Environment. I have begun voting number 20, and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 20 of the 179 present for 166, against 2. This proposal has also been adopted. We will now vote on the time limit for committee discussions, which has been extended to 120 days with the agreement of the appellant. I have begun the vote on order number 21 and I ask who is in favour of extending the time limit for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 21 of the present 180 for 174, against 3. This proposal has also been approved. I note that this proposal has been ordered for consideration by the Defence Committee and the Environment Committee, the period for consideration has been extended to 120 days. I thank the representatives of the plaintiffs to Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, thank the rapporteur, Mr Gabala, and I conclude this point. On the next item, I'm going to ask my fellow Vice-President to replace me because I'm going to be the biller.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-18-ps2013-007-01-006-009.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to discuss this point.
