ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u1	49. Government bill amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts (the Environmental Impact Assessment Act), as amended, and other related Laws (the House Print 299) - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you first of all in this evening, although not as advanced as yesterday, for the decision to include this point. I really appreciate it. It's a crucial point. I'm gonna start off a little untraditional. I came to the Ministry of the Environment at the end of January of this year and about a week after I came in and I did a review of what is burning as much as possible, so I found that in mid-January the European Union or the European Commission shortened the deadline for transposition, which has been postponed for a long time, by the EIA law, the transposition so as to agree with the EIA European Directive, to 1. 1. 2015. [[18.30 hours]] The original term was 1. 1. 2016. I took over the project at the moment, and I was appalled when at the first meeting it turned out that thirty officials from eight resorts would sit there, those officials being completely arguing with each other and not going to any end. In April 2014, on a nice Friday afternoon based on our unofficial information from Brussels, I found that a so-called reasoned position was already written, which was to be presented to the so-called infringement commission on Tuesday, and the issue of this opinion at the time of issue would stop the drawing of European funds to the Czech Republic worth approximately 100 billion. Crowns. These would be, among other things, European subsidies or funds for all transport projects. I dare say that it was quite a Hussarian piece that Věra Jourová and Mr. Secretary of State Prouza and others managed to turn this danger away and put the Czech Republic back into play, because the Czech Republic had, of course, a reputation in Brussels that promised for years that it would finally bring something together, but it still produces cat-psies or nothing at all. For this reason, I dare say, although it is clear to me how many comments and suggestions come about how this amendment will stop all investment actions, which is certainly not true, but the truth is that the European Commission has long been blaming us and objecting to the failure to comply with the EIA Directive, or the fundamental differences that exist in our existing EIA Directive compared to the European Directive. These differences were mainly in the area of the bindingness of the exit from the EIA process, when the requirement that the EIA process and the EIA opinion be in the form of a binding opinion, the wider possibility of so-called consultative public participation, for example in the building procedure, the wider participation of environmental organisations or organisations, which took part not only in the EIA process, but in particular in the territorial and construction proceedings as participants in the authorisation procedures, the possibility of judicial review of the negative conclusion of the detection procedure, that is to say that in a specific case the EIA process will not be carried out at all, or the automatic suspensive effect of the actions against the decision issued. The amendment was prepared for several months by hundreds of people, not only by all the departments concerned, which is about eight resorts concerned, but also by the Confederation of Industry, Economic Chamber and many others. I dare say that today is one of the most discussed standards. There were several seminars for her, including in the Chamber of Deputies. There have been repeated memoranda for this. And believe me, I am well aware of what this amendment may have and will have an impact. At the same time, we have clearly promised, and forgive me the word that this amendment will be a mere patch, a patch that will heal the biggest objections that the European Commission, the Czech Republic, has long held against us for the imperfect transposition of the European directive into our legal order. And I stress that in this amendment we have played a number of things that are not there and which the European Commission has also objected to, but we have managed to explain. Then, of course, in a closer debate, I can comment on them if there is any interest. Among other things, 350 essential comments were received in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure before the government hearing and all were settled, i.e. the amendment went to the government without conflict, and the government also unanimously approved it. This means, I dare say, that this is really an amendment that should be addressed in 2015, and we today together with the Ministry of Regional Development, which should be a sort of gesture of a new solution, we are working intensively together on - workingly I call it - a unified authorisation procedure, i.e. a system similar to that of Austria today. I deliberately say a similar system, because according to my information, the European Commission does not like the Austrian system too much, which means we should definitely not go blindly, but it is a system that should ideally be from 1. 1. 2016 to replace independent processes, today very time-consuming, very bureaucratic, i.e. separately EIA, independently territorial management, independently building proceedings into one whole, into one process managed by one building office. This amendment should be addressed as a major amendment to the construction law and this is how the Ministry of Regional Development is working on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, but I am certainly ready to discuss this issue in order to release this amendment to committees where, of course, I expect a big debate. However, it is quite clear today, and the European Commission has made it clear several times, and I have the evidence, in writing, that there is a room for manoeuvre, but then there are things that are very likely to be inconvenient for the European Commission. In other words, we are in a situation where the European Union is clearly telling us: 'If you want our money, accept our rules, if you do not accept them, you are unlucky'. With this position, we've entered. I took part in a number of meetings both in Brussels and in the Czech Republic with all the organizations concerned. Again, I'm ready for your questions, but in this sense, please, let's take into account the situation in which we find ourselves. Let us not talk about any dictation, but simply the Czech Republic has not done anything in the long run, and now we can talk about whether and to what extent it is beyond the framework of the European directive. We have also asked for the opinion of the European Union's legal service, but unfortunately we have received the answer that this service is not provided to Member States, that legal service works for the European Commission. This means that today we are in a situation where I am ready and we are ready to answer your questions very closely in the committees, but at this point, I ask you in this situation, given that it is basically ex ante consistency, that is, the previous condition, among other things, for drawing European funds from this period and from the new period, is even more monitored by the European Commission than the Service Act, I dare say, so I beg you to release you for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u3	I thank the Minister for the clear introduction of this law. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u4	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has quite emotionally introduced us to the amendment to Act 100. It is a simplified law on environmental impact assessment. You all know what the problem is in our densely populated country with the construction of individual transport, energy, or civil buildings. The debate itself, which preceded the proposal for an amendment to this law to the government, was already very turbulent. The views that appear in this area and which are often contradictory, and it is far from that there are environmental activists on the one hand, and on the other hand there are energy and development lobbies, there are many. The executive itself presented several options in public debates as to how this matter should be dealt with in the future. Since we are facing enormous European pressure, as the Minister here says, it is likely that this amendment will be valid for quite a long time. Although the government tells us that within two years I suspect it will present a comprehensive amendment to all the laws involved in this, it is really necessary to treat this amendment by setting conditions that will apply for at least several years. In this example, I would like to state how different the view of the so-called EIA is. I'm sure most of the company wants us to build highways. The moment an environmental activist appears on the site and ties himself to a tree somewhere, the whole society or most condemns it until the highway is built on the property of the person, because then the environmental activist in question wears warm soup and slaps it on the shoulder. [[18.40 hours]] I would recall some basic parameters of this law. I'm going to make the most significant error that the Commission has accused us of. In particular, the lack of bindingness of the outputs from the EIA processes and possible changes in intentions during subsequent authorisation procedures have been identified. This is typically a territorial and construction process. The fact that the individual provisions of the EIA Directive should be applied not only to the EIA process but also to the subsequent authorisation procedure in which the intention is definitively approved, which does not ensure the current legislation in force. The Commission has called into question the lack of public participation in the follow-up proceedings and, at the same time, has ruled out the insecurity of early and effective judicial protection for members of the public concerned. I would like to draw attention here to the deadline and comment on the timetable presented by the Ministry. It sounded from the mouth of Minister Brabec. This means that it is an ambition for this law to enter into force on 1 January - it began to apply on 1 January 2015 when the relevant legislative changes must be effective. The timetable presented to us by the Ministry is very ambitious and I believe that we will be able to discuss it this way and approve it, although the debate is likely to be very turbulent, and as we have seen, in particular, in very simple laws or amendments such as the amendment to the Waste Act, it is likely that this amendment will be burdened by a whole series of amendments. The dates we discuss and submitted to us by the Ministry, so the Ministry has an ambition to discuss the amendment in the Chamber of Deputies and approve it in September 2014. Discuss the amendment in the Senate and approve in the Senate in October 2014. Submit the law to the President of the Republic and declare in the Collection of Laws in November 2014 and the effectiveness of the law would then be from 1. 1. 2015. I will just briefly mention the areas in which the EIA law is being amended. These are in particular the following areas: it is the binding nature of the outputs from the environmental impact assessment process in the verification binding opinion, the introduction of a consultative form of public participation in authorisation procedures, the participation of selected members of the public concerned in authorisation procedures and public access to judicial protection. It is an amendment to Section 61, respectively the repeal of Section 91 of the Construction Act and the extension of the information obligation of the authorities deciding in subsequent proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, in the discussions that preceded the presentation of the law, I have noted the ambition to discuss this amendment in the Committee on the Environment, as a guarantee committee, in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, in which I first note Mr Urban's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not envy the Minister for trying to pass through here and cursing something that would mean that this will comply with the European directive and, on the other hand, will not cause even greater problems in terms of construction investments in the Czech Republic. I think we need to thank him for trying, for this approach. On the other hand, I think it has to go to committees, two of them have already spoken, probably taking it to other committees, but I don't want to anticipate that. I'm just worried that if it was approved in this form, we don't really need the European money, because we have nothing to spend it on. So let us try to redo this somehow so that we can fit into this narrow corridor, which means that we will rewrite 80 percent of some European directive, so we will comply with some transitional period in the European Union, while not stopping construction in the Czech Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u7	I thank Mr Urban. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr. Jan Zahradník, joined the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u8	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is little evidence of how important a law we are discussing and how significantly this law can affect our economy. Where is the Prime Minister, where is the Minister of Industry and Trade, where is the Minister of Finance, whose departments will surely be affected by this law? Where are these gentlemen? They're not here with us. The Minister of the Environment presented this proposal as a proposal that puts out a fire, as if it were already on fire with us and we came running with the pumps and started to put out. I don't think there's a need to be like that. Above all, it must be said that this amendment, which the Ministry is proposing to us, goes far beyond the criticisms addressed to us by the European Commission. We include at our national level such provisions which are not required of us at all and which will significantly extend bureaucracy. Consider, at random, the problem of determining the extent of buildings that will have to be included in the assessment process under the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the EIA Act. New industrial zones and projects for the development of industrial areas are included there without determining their size. Simply any such intention will have to go through that difficult EIA assessment process. Or, for example, a parking lot or garage must have a capacity which, according to the law, represents 100 standings for the whole construction and then undergo the EIA process. Or the intentions of urban development, especially business complexes, shopping centres, other centres will be subjected to the EIA from a built-up area of 3,000 square meters. In Austria, mentioned by the Minister, it is 150,000 square metres, 1,500 parking spaces. They're much less strict with each other here. There are no such thresholds for the complaint letter sent to us by the Commission, which the Commission does not prescribe to us. On the contrary, it says that Member States can set these thresholds themselves. Of course, we set them more strictly than we have to. Another major problem that we can find in this law is that the action that the so-called public concerned may bring has suspensive effect. This is something that will significantly prolong and also cost building preparation, approval process. A separate chapter is public participation in the EIA process. In this amendment, which is adapted to the requirements of the European Commission, non-profit organisations, civil associations, are divided into two types. For some previously established non-governmental organisations engaged in environmental protection, with a history of at least three years, they can do anything, those are all-powerful, and then those ad hocs for the project itself, at the site of the established non-governmental organisations, which must obtain 200 signatures. It is a clear concession to non-governmental environmental activists, non-governmental environmental organisations. This will give them an exclusive and privileged position without having to convince the public, the citizens in that place, that they really represent their interests. Those old, well-trained non-profit organizations, non-governmental organizations, will be able to speak almost into everything. They'll be able to block almost everything. [[18.50 hours]] These organisations may refer to the conclusions of the so-called the follow-up procedure, without having previously been parties to the proceedings. They may enter in the process of ongoing proceedings. This too is something that we can easily call the creation of a pro-corruption environment. Just nonprofits, NGOs, environmental activists who are shielding themselves by protecting the environment can, therefore, deliberately enter the proceedings, appeal even if they were not parties, based on the fact that they have had more than three years of history. So this blackmail mechanism will certainly cause many problems for both public and private entities, and all major strategic projects will certainly be severely paralyzed. The impact of the adoption of this amendment is tragic. It basically means stopping new building permits. The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic estimates the damage that this amendment would cause, as follows: the loss or failure to create 15,500 jobs directly in the construction sector and 30,000 in the whole economy. Six and a half billion crowns loss of unrealized buildings, if we include additional multiplier effects, it's double, 13 billion crowns. And by not projecting, we will not prepare, we will not build, so we will not be able to draw, so our colleague Urban has already made that clear. We will not be able to draw, we will lose approximately 179 billion according to estimates of the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic. Crowns. The Minister is threatening to lose 100 billion. I understand that, that's right. But more importantly, what's more important? Losing our traditional industries? The dampening of construction, one of the key sectors of our economy? We must all realise this before we vote for this law. That means we're more papal than the Pope is again, as we often do. I think I said that winged phrase once before. It already has a statement in that European newspeak, they call it gold-plating. So we're the realizers of that gold-plating. Plus, we're looking at a fundamental contradiction between ministries here. On the one hand, the Minister of the Environment desperately calls for the adoption of this law. The Minister still calls for local development Věra Jourová again to step up the development of the economy, to unlock the building authorisation system so that we can design, build. So we don't have any troubles that are already this big, considering the Public Procurement Act. You may have heard yesterday a debate between the contracting authority and the supplier of an important underground building in Prague, both expressing a great deal of desperation about what caused them the Public Procurement Act, which was also adopted in some holy enthusiasm to prevent all the injustices of the world. In this House, we have dealt with this on many platforms. I have the feeling that the Committee on European Affairs was, at least I think, the first body of the House to deal with this law in April this year, before it was delivered from the Ministry. At the time, the committee dealt with this because it was as if the required standard from the European Commission had come to us. And that is when we adopted a resolution that I would like to quote here, which was adopted cross-cuttingly across all the political parties in the committee: "The Committee on European Affairs expresses serious concerns that the draft amendment to Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, will significantly limit the process of public buildings in the Czech Republic. At the same time, it asks the Government to take account of the comments made by business operators on the proposal for this amendment.' Given that the Chamber of Commerce has, of course, submitted its comments, but it is also already desperate and proposing amendments that are essential, which fundamentally change the wording of the law. There was a seminar in the House. Many of us Members were present there. Not at the whole seminar, but many of us went through the seminar and watched the presentations, we watched the performances of our colleagues and colleagues. And we've noticed a cross-cutting voice: it's a bad standard! It will stop the development of the Czech Republic! Why are we accepting this? However, we are confronted here with the Ministry's proposal, i.e. with a significant scare, that if we allow ourselves not to accept it, then thunder and lightning from the Olympus of the European Commission will fall upon us. Those who support the adoption of this amendment, and the Minister mentioned it, speak of the fact that they may be aware of the tragic consequences, but they still speak and usually have such an unhappy face. They say it's a patch. When we get better, when we get up, we'll buy new pants and replace the patch with a proper skirt. Well, I don't know, gentlemen and ladies, I mean, I don't know if the Ministry is going to fix this patched economy. I'm worried that nothing like this is gonna happen. Because we know that the space that environmental activists have earned will never again be allowed. They'll still dominate their demands for the law. And any other version that tries to fix this patch will be even worse. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have no choice but to reject the amendment, to stop being afraid of the European Union. I would like to ask an ANO member of the government movement to appeal to his colleague, Minister Brabec, to break free from the influence of environmental activists and order his ministry to prepare the law properly, so that it does not harm the Czech economy. I therefore wish to propose that we reject this law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u9	I thank Mr Zahradník. I'm registering his motion to dismiss this bill. I now have Mr Pilný's factual comment, then President Stanjura and Mr Laudát with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I, like my colleague Zahradník, am very sorry that this is billions and it is here, and I doubt it very much, 88 Members. That's very bad. On the other hand, we have to realize that sometimes we act like we're in a playground here. Yesterday we saw that when someone stepped on somebody's pussy, they wouldn't lend us a bucket. There were a lot more MPs here yesterday. Another law that will not be discussed at this meeting is the Public Procurement Act, which creates another huge block in how public buildings will be built. If we go this way, we're not going anywhere, but we're really not going anywhere. [[19.00 hours]] I agree with Minister Brabc that this law must be discussed. But thanks to what the House will actually do, I predict that it will also work on the Wednesday when the Economic Committee meeting was convened, so time is also limited. We're gonna have to cut the meeting in half, and we're gonna have time to discuss it. So it's a huge complication, if we want to make the legal deadline, we're gonna have real problems with it. So we're really doing our own problems, and this is about a billion. We really should be less infantile about these things. It's absolutely necessary. Otherwise, I don't think we should reject the proposal at first reading. It's part of the committees, we've discussed it, we'll discuss it again, there may be some modifications, but we just have to discuss it. The motion to dismiss is absurd and will do more harm than good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u11	I thank Mr Pilný. I have two further factual points, first Mr Benešík, after which Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u12	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zahradník and, after all, Mr Pilný have opened one interesting discussion, more general. We often complain that the European Union wants us to implement something that we do not like. The question is whether our representatives in various institutions of the European Union, who are involved or to participate in what we have in the Czech Republic, such as the House, will come to us, so if it is in our interest. I am not the only one who thinks that our representatives - and there are not enough, we have European Members, we have the European Council, the Council of the EU, the Economic, Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, etc. - actually fulfills what they have. There are those whom I have named, defend the interests of the Czech Republic and try to ensure that the legislation that comes here and which we then have to suffer to accept in order to avoid infringement is in the interests of the Czech Republic. So I am too much in favour of appealing to our representatives and, as far as possible, to unite the position and procedure across the political spectrum in influencing European legislation so that we do not have to cry and complain here afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u13	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Mr Fiedler is also registered with a factual remark, followed by Mr Zlatuška with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u14	Good evening, colleagues, Mr President, again very briefly. We're here to discuss how this meeting was going, how her program was changing. It was said here by my colleague Pilný, through Mr President, that when we trampled on his little granny, he gets mad that he won't lend him a bucket. It's just such a pout on purpose. But why do they arise? You know I'm one of the newcomers, there's a lot of us here, so it's nothing special, and the way this meeting goes on, the mess going on, the moving on, that's really beyond the edge of the load. I have a specific question for Minister Brabec. I'll show you first. I think we agreed to this point, or we agreed to this House, to include yesterday in the agenda of today's meeting as an extremely extended point. Minister, how long did the government know that this had to be discussed, that the term was on fire? Didn't the government know that before this meeting? Is that what the government found out yesterday? Because it's a logical question, I'm sorry. If we approved this yesterday as an agenda for this meeting, or for this day, then perhaps the government could have known that in advance and it could have been planned before the beginning of this meeting, on the first day of this meeting we could have put it as a solid point. I don't think you're gonna deny me that, Mr. Secretary. And I'd like your reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u15	I thank Mr Fiedler. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that if we are complaining about European legislation, how it is pushing us and that we are supposed to do something here against this, such a complaint would only be possible if we consider ourselves complete dorks who are the only ones in Europe who cannot put pressure on European legislation. As far as I know, they're stopping everywhere else, they'll deal with it everywhere. Even the public contracts are doing much cleaner there without the amount of money stolen from us. I think it takes a little bit of trying to do it right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u17	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u18	I would only react briefly to my colleague, Zlatuška. Yes, it is exactly what those countries can negotiate in the European Commission. Here I support my colleague Benešík's position. If they can negotiate rules that are favourable to their industry, they can, of course, build. If they negotiate rules that are stricter than they should be, and let's face it, who negotiated those rules, that it was the government of the ČSSD, then of course we can't build, we can't build money, we can't draw finance. So it is really about what we can negotiate with the European Commission and then how we can implement the rules into our legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u19	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would rather have a question for the rapporteur. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't think I understand. I would ask the rapporteur. Is that what you are saying, Mr Vice-President, that in the European Union within the EIA, each country has different rules? [[Voices from the diaper: Yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u21	With Mr Kučera's factual comment, Mr Novotný's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u22	Yes, they do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u23	That was a really effective point of fact. Mr Novotný with a point of fact, then Mr Benešík with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u24	Maybe I'd say it a little bit more kosher and set an example specific to one area of our lives. I would recommend, through Mr President, to Mr Zlatušek, that, if he visits Brussels in the near future, he become familiar with the functioning of transport in this city, which should be the European Union's display closet, at the same time, with the various regulations in this area that work in our country, and that Brussels has the same rules as our countries, or they are a little more equal. Yes, European countries have different and very often much more liberal rules in many areas in which we have adopted and are still willing to adopt the toughest possible and imaginable rules.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u25	Mr Benešík, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Again in general. We also often hear complaints about how difficult it is to ask for funding from European funds. But we actually complicate matters very often on our own. If the applicant for an investment action is to document a building permit or something like that, then it really depends on the Czech legal order, how he works on the building permit. And the fact that, for example, working on certain matters in our country is much more complex, but our fault than in Ireland or Lithuania, for example, is our problem. So let's keep in mind that we often complicate matters here ourselves, but even more often, bad Brusel serves as an excuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u27	Thank you, Mr Benešík. I do not see any factual point at this time, so with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u28	I think it's a good thing there were so many facts, at least I can respond to some performances. First, Mr Pilný, if I may, through you. You're right, but we're done on the seventh day of the meeting, and I've been negotiating with your club bosses since this morning, and I'm still not set up for tomorrow, and there's still no proposal. And it's 19.09. I take it as self-criticism, not opposition. [[unintelligible]] We've never been through a change of schedule in the nine months we've been through. You're dictating the whole thing yourself - point shifts, flips, things like that. I really think that, given the seriousness of the problem, undignified participation is mainly by the members of the government. There are far fewer members of the government than the percentage of Members. Even though there are 90 of us, there would have to be about seven ministers sitting here to make it about the same percentage. And I'm sure it's seven resorts that should be interested in that. I think the minister said eight resorts are handling it. But there aren't eight resorts here, and I don't know if it's handled by the Ministry of Culture, who sits here honestly. So there are seven of the Minister's colleagues missing. And don't think of it as cheap criticism, the point is really extremely serious. And don't be angry, and you can't blame the opposition for the seventh day of the meeting at 7:00 p.m. [[19.10 hours]] Discuss for yourself whether all the points that have been so far have been more important. Of course, when we perceive it and look at how points rank, it is clear that some ministers have more influence and rank their points elsewhere than other ministers. But it's not our business, it's yours. And if you said we had infantile behavior or behavior sometimes, then maybe I'd use a sharper adjective to see how our meetings work, but I won't use it. I don't mean dirty words or pejorative words, but I'd probably use the word amateur. Constant changes. Even our rapporteurs, as in every club, are club correspondents other than the Houses, simply don't know. We don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, we don't know if it's going to be next week, if it is, if it's going to be committees or not, etc. Now, don't even think of it as a criticism, but rather a statement of facts. And now for the proposal itself. It really bothers me that we are afraid of the European Commission, which has just been appointed! It is as if we are afraid that the past government will do something to us, for example, Jiří Rusnok, because the government of Jiří Rusnok has an opinion on something, now there is a new government, but Parliament will be afraid, because the government of Jiří Rusnok has promised something or promised something to someone or had its legislative plan, which has not been able to deliver, etc. So the logical question is: who, how many times, who, what, and what result he discussed in Brussels. And we are simply failing in these negotiations as a state in the long run. I say long-term, so I am not just pointing criticism at this government. I am from the Moravian-Silesian region, where we have heavy industry businesses, and right across the border we have the same businesses from Poland. And let us try to tell and compare the conditions, at least some of the conditions and exceptions that the Czech Republic negotiated when joining the EU before 2004 and which the Republic of Poland negotiated. For example, Polish companies, Polish steelworks, Polish smelters do not have to meet strict emission limits. Don't be! This means that it is a direct competitor of our businesses, they have much lower costs. Of course, the crap that crawls out of their rocks, thanks to the prevailing wind direction, is coming to us. Each government tries to negotiate a change with Polish ministers, and while Polish ministers are friendly, they act but do not move away. And we negotiated a reduced VAT rate on diapers for a transitional period. But I don't want to do that. Just compare what is more important for the state and for the country's industry and economy. Yesterday I last heard of a lower VAT rate on diapers, and I could ask the exact same question. We said it wasn't possible, but the government, and there's a government statement that they're gonna try. So I think we should focus our energy here, and not on diapers for children, but even if: the same question - not for the Minister of the Environment, I would probably ask someone else, probably the Minister of Finance, or I don't know exactly who, when, with whom, what and with what result he discussed in the EU. Did we discuss the reduced rate? What did they tell us? We also know that the UK has negotiated a zero rate of VAT on medicines, and this is not possible under the current directives. But it can be negotiated, or it can't be negotiated. And we, very quickly as the Czech Republic, gave our votes when choosing the head of the European Commission. Look at how Polák turned out to be our neighbours in the choice of European functions and how we did. And this was an opportunity for us to negotiate, perhaps, for the support of the new head of the European Commission, that they would give us back that year and we would have 12 months more for the difficult debate that awaits us. In our opinion, the proposal that we have on the table will seriously make the conditions worse. And if the government says it wants to boost investment, we partially support it. We're just saying it's not meant to be a debt, but otherwise it's a reasonable plan, so I'm afraid along with some of the previous speakers, I think it was Mr Urban that we're gonna stop the investments eventually. I have two specific questions about the Minister and then two proposals. The first question is: I did not quite understand exactly what the fate of the requests for a territorial decision will be, which will be interrupted under the transitional provision. I understand those who go into reporting mode. And secondly, if we understood the bill correctly, the fact that someone filed it in court has a suspensive effect. So let's imagine that you're going to start construction, like traffic, somebody's going to bring it to trial, and at that moment, according to the bill, you have to stop working immediately. I don't know if you can even preserve the building, if it's not a lawbreaker. In our opinion, the way it's written, it won't! It says the court has to decide within 150 days, but here we will lose the legislative clash and the court. I don't think we're able to force the law to decide within 150 days, and we're not able to force the law to do that at all. I can't imagine! It would be nice if that were the case, I would be the first in favour, but how is it practically going to work if someone stops construction and the court doesn't decide in the first instance within 150 days? Or will he decide in the first instance, and someone will appeal? And many of us have experience across the Republic, across the political spectrum, when, for ideal and ideological reasons, someone is hindering the construction of transport infrastructure, industrial zone, factories, as well as cycling routes, and children's playground. It's just when someone makes a decision, they just do it. And that is why we are concerned, and that is why we think it is better to reject the proposal, to continue discussing it, because we really need it, and to really talk in Brussels about getting back to the debate that year, because the term is gallows, basically impossible today. And for the next time, it would be really good for all of us to have such important laws if there were more of us here. I've heard again that we're going to propose a reduction in deadlines. You can, you can, you can say it, but is it really so important and it makes sense in such a complex law? Hurry up and make a quick call to Brussels: have we got it yet? After all, our new Commissioner will be a member of the Czech Government. No doubt he knows about the problems. I think that even her ministry logically had to and participate in the agenda not only in the EIA but also in the fact that we really need to change the construction law. And I think we can only give one chance to those opponents in the whole trial. And I don't know how it's linked to that - we talked today about one of our regions not having the principles of territorial development because of a judicial decision. First chance. Then zoning plans, whether regionals or individual cities. Another chance. Territorial proceedings, building permits. There are a great deal of points where opponents can enter your hearing process, and I agree with my colleague Zahradník - the Minister is shaking his head, but I think the Minister is listening to these voices too much and is retreating too much and respects their voice too much. They are well organized, they are well heard, they have excellent PR policy. I don't mean that ironically, but I mean that as an award. They are excellent lobbyists, they are able to organize such e-mail raids, articles where opponents are ridiculed, scandalized, slandered, etc. But those who try to develop territories, whether within the Republic, the region, the municipalities, or the cities, are often not heard and simply solves the problems daily. And we fear that this bill will make the position of the others worse and, on the contrary, we will improve the position of the first ones. And if by chance - it is very likely that the coalition has a majority - the motion for rejection has not passed, we propose that, in addition to the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on European Policy should also deal with this, because it has a relationship with Brussels and our MEPs in the EU, and of course the economic committee, which I therefore consider more important in this bill than the Committee on the Environment, because I think that the voice should be heard and the opinion of the whole sector of the economy, and therefore the opinion of our economic committee should be taken into account. Thank you for your attention even in this late afternoon or evening hour and minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u29	Thank you to President Stanjur. Mr Ivan Pilný, Mr Gabal, has made a point of fact. I'm sorry, Mr. Gabal, the written application here comes first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u30	Good evening again, dear colleagues and colleagues. I, through Mr President, agree with the evaluation of this meeting by President Stanjura, and I will easily add amateurism to that, because that is what it really was, although it has created room for me to have a good dinner in a pleasant society. And now for the trial. [[19.20 hours]] It really isn't. We came in ten minutes after 12:00, and it wasn't because the minister was neglecting anything. The process is a long time ago, and the European Union, do not be illusioned that something will happen in exchange for European Commissioners or MEPs. There are concrete official processes, where officials advance step by step and simply lead to self-locking. I have dealt with this problem very intensively, as have many of my colleagues from YES, so I know exactly what I'm talking about. In the end, we will see it here very soon, because here we have also concreted ourselves with the state administration and killed open proceedings, so we will have a bureaucratic apparatus that will behave in the same way as in Brussels, and we will see how this is going to run regardless of how MEPs or ministers are going to switch somewhere. It is simply an official bureaucratic scary process that is very difficult to stop. And we have to, unfortunately, because these impacts are serious, both negative in the form of European subsidies and in the negative form, as it will turn out for construction in the Czech Republic, but we have to deal with this. I do not anticipate how this will turn out, and, of course, I anticipate that this will be directed to an economic committee, which I also consider to be crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u31	I thank Mr Pilný. With another factual remark, Mr Gabal, followed by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u32	Good evening. Mr President, government, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to name the situation. We are not as afraid of the European Commission as we are of the civil society. So let's leave the European Commission and let's talk about whether or not we want to let the public speak into serious lines and other buildings. I think it is necessary for Members of the Moravian-Silesian Region to tell themselves why the more educated population is leaving this region. Why it begins to stagnate life expectancy, why it stagnates even more in neighboring Poland. Why yesterday's housing subsidy to residential hotels and the concentration of excluded localities is in this region. See if it has anything to do with the emissions and all these phenomena. Why this county is among the three worst in crime. See if it has anything to do with the environment. And if by any chance, in this case, some civil associations that point to air quality are not right. Of course, what Mr. Exheitman the Zahradník said to you. Yes, civil society complicates construction. I think that if civil society were stronger in Russia, there couldn't be Olympics, and if the Olympics weren't, we probably wouldn't have the consequences today. So we will abolish civil society, remove its influence, chop it off, or learn how to conduct dialogue in a way that fits the European standard. This is where it makes sense to debate the European environment. And as part of complaining about the European Commission, through you, I am done now, Mr Pilný, what if the Commission starts acting according to how we behaved towards our previous head of state or the ODS towards Brussels. [[Time warning]] I guess we'd look a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u33	I thank Mr Gabal. Mr Stanjura, Mr Novotný, followed by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u34	Mr Gabal demonstrated a classic political unfair attack. He's protesting something I didn't say. I didn't say any of that. He speaks so fundamentally: let us abolish civil society, we are afraid of civil association. And I really love it when the problems of the Moravian-Silesian Region are solved by someone from Prague and is smart - sorry - like a radio. The way it is with us. We have experience with the fact that not our citizens are giving us in these buildings in our region, or those comments are giving us, and there I stand on their side that those who live in that place have the right to express themselves. And the children's playgrounds, and the bike paths. But those who live so far away, it's not just with us, it's also with D8. And if you want to hear a beautiful example, first I want to tell you that the village with the purest air in the Czech Republic lies in the Moravian-Silesian region. The purest. You can hear me well. But if you want to hear an example of what is being solved from Prague and what is being solved in the place, compare after 1989 what has been built in the Krkonoše Mountains, where people from Prague and its surroundings mainly go skiing, and how the protectors of beautiful mountains in Jeseníky took place in our region. Incomparable! We built nothing because the civic association, especially from Prague, solves Jeseníky, and does not solve the Krkonoše Mountains. But it was my speech against those who did it for ideological reasons. Not because they live there, and the possible construction threatens them or their families or their housing. On the contrary, I am on the side of these people, but I am against those who do this across the Republic because they have some ideology and head of head and often against the opinion of people who advocate their opinion in that place. Go see the D8, I'm not talking about the cave that has been blocked for years and years by people who don't live there. And the people who live there are telling every transport minister, that's what they told me -- for God's sake, just build it. That's what I'm talking about. [[Time warning]] Not those who live there and have legitimate concerns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u35	With another factual remark, Mr Martin Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u36	Have a good evening again. I want to share with one of my relatively recent fresh experiences with one of the forms of civil society in my country. In our town, we wanted to build a tram track, environmental transport, one of the most ecological ones we know at all. At the same time part of this construction was the revitalization of a long, decades of problematic brownfield near the city center. Finally, we managed to build this tram line from Swiss funds. It is one of the few tram lines that have been able to be built in the Czech Republic in recent years. Against this ecological transport revitalizing brownfield in the heart of the city, various environmental associations strongly protested, because it was said that he lived on that territory, although no one had ever seen him there, especially protected by the fridge. I know that if I read this bill, if we had to wait and put the whole thing on trial at that time, this line would never stand and no new tram line would have been built in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u37	I thank Mr Novotný. With another factual remark, Mr Jan Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u38	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, civil society is something that we have built on some kind of pedestal and what we are doing. Perhaps rightly, but I think that the true civil society is first of all a municipal government, and that is the communal community of people who live in their community, who are able to take care of it, who are able to repair the chapel, organize a friendly neighborhood sitting, and who also want to avoid dozens of trucks going through their village all the time, because the neighborhood could have long ago become highways that prevent the other part of civil society from happening again. I wanted to warn against those professional environmentalists, those professional environmental activists who are currently defending, and again, I call them professionally, all these important worthy buildings. That's what I meant when I warned about environmental activists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u39	I thank Mr Zahradník. Now, after factual remarks with priority rights for the TOP 09 and Mayor's Vice-President František Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u40	Thank you. It's a big policy, so a few notes. I'd start with President Pilný. We showed complete willingness. Under his leadership, the Economic Committee has already organised meetings with those who are facing the Public Procurement Act. From left to right, a hundred percent of Members have offered to be very helpful, we will make a political cover to bring parametric changes quickly, which is what everyone is able to do with an ensemble like this in a week. [[19.30 hours]] That's all. That was sometime in March. Now here comes the novel. What, then, is the Minister's priority over this amendment? If it's such a priority, maybe she could have found time to be here. Or at previous meetings, why did she do it - a technical amendment, if we now implement a completely fundamentally new European directive, significantly liberal. Then why didn't she turn to this tech through an MP proposal? We were offering her to do it from the opposition, from the coalition, because of course it will be associated with great political pressure. So here I have no remorse. As far as Professor Zlatuška is concerned. Well, like in a lot of cases, he's always good, and we know a lot of political Mohicans who stand up and say something here. And no one's supposed to discuss it that way. Of course, if he knew the reality of large buildings, or even small ones, not only lines, but also reconstruction of monuments, he would have to know that even in the most sophisticated and sophisticated countries in Europe, exactly the same processes are happening as in the Czech Republic. The members of the Economic Committee would certainly tell the story of the Gotthard Tunnel, where the deadlines are extended, are far from over, the price is already rising by a third to 12 billion francs out of eight, which has approved the popular - for Mr Okamura: a popular - Swiss referendum that there are exactly the same excuses in raising - to geological changes... or not excuses, it is probably not appropriate to use, but additional fire measures, and we did not know this and we did not know that. The professor doesn't seem to know what's going on in the construction of a new Berlin airport. We've never had a cowgirl like this here before when I take only the famous ones: the collapsed gigahala at another French airport, the crash of the fast construction of Polish highways before the World Cup, an attempt with a Chinese supplier - total bankruptcy. So please, if we're gonna make a fool out of ourselves... Now to your own law. We will also encourage it to be rejected in this presentation in the first reading. Obviously, the coalition has the strength not to do so, so much I would join Mr Pilný's motion to get it to the Economic Committee. I'm just pointing out, if the result is really going to be applied, for example, on so much of the D1 motorway, I think the children of the country are rebelling. Even near the section near Prague, the brňák appeal to me to punch a colleague Stanjur here, so it will end in complete chaos. Because if a court in the middle of construction stops it by some preliminary measure, I don't know who's gonna pay the damages. Of course, I would distract colleague Stanjura's concerns that the contractor of the building is always obliged to bring it into some preserved safe state where further and further damage is caused. However, not many people will be able to get it up and running after such an event. So that's another thing. Another thing is that, in one form or another, and it will eventually have to pass in some form, we will approve this law, so it will place great, significantly greater demands on the Ministry of Transport - if we are only talking about line construction - not nominated by experts who may well deserved to be in a graduate company or have a driver's license, but really people who have long thought about what to do with this country. Because if there was a proper minister, a number of carambols - probably construction would move, because a normal minister would make a schedule after about two or three months and order massive preparations. Prep the detaxed so that it doesn't happen that we actually have money, but we don't have anything to build. That didn't happen, and someone didn't do it right away. Because putting out fires when I want to build this, and there's a political interest, it's too late, and of course very easily in the chaos of landowners, or whoever's doing some good throwing a pitchfork into it. There's been talk of justice here. Of course, if such a law is passed, it will be even worse. Absurd situation - Prague has the principles of the territorial plan dropped by the court, but does not drop the territorial plan, so the zoning plan applies, but the principles according to which it was drawn up are invalid. And I think there's a poodle core in it. In the chaos of how the state administration works, how old-timers or negotiators work territorial decisions, building permits, then, of course, whether individuals or various initiatives quite lightly, especially when some officials are connected with these initiatives or those interests, so they also like to make formal mistakes, on which everything then falls. So I think that this should be strictly written in the law, when and under what conditions there is no going back. Members of Schwarz and the YES movement have already been answered by the rapporteur. Yes, yes. Yes, it is for Members of the Yes. Whoever negotiates has it. Yes, the rules, I say, yes, yes. Exactly what my colleague Kučera said. And that's what's magical about it. And then, by closing my speech, because time is fading, I would have said the very last thing. No state... What's the magic or the poodle core? In any country in the world that is in a community, and we are in the European Community, there are not as many whistleblowers and complainants in Brussels as there are from the Czech Republic. So if they are building and having similar rules in Poland, then believe that in the Czech Republic - and this is also about drawing and fine-tuning and stopping the Transport Operational Programme that has happened - the clouds of these things have happened on the basis of giving their own people and warning to Brussels. I'm not saying we should cover up anything, but Brussels' approach today is, if there's civil discontent, there's probably something wrong and we'd rather not put money there. That's the final opinion. So it's just another one where we're hurting ourselves, because then these people can end up on those trees or those imperfect roads with their health bruised, or they'll even lose their loved ones. So that's another thing we can't do anything about. Anyway, I'm saying something's gonna come through here, and it's even worse when one of those key resorts is headed by a bum. Really, this republic can't afford it, and it's awful - then it's going to cost a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u41	I thank Mr Laudát. With a factual remark, Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to warn all the MPs, opposition and government, to turn this into the very opposite government policy. This is a serious matter, my friends. If it were adopted in the form in which this law is proposed, for example, we never built Hyundai in the Czech Republic. Some say, maybe he shouldn't be standing here, there's too much car industry. But if he's accepted, I'm telling you, we're not gonna build Temelín, we're not gonna build a fifth block in Dukovany, we're not gonna drain electricity from Temelín, we're not gonna build a lot of corporate investment here. What this republic needs as salt is investment - foreign and Czech. Without this, the development of the Czech economy, the development of the economy and the standard of living simply will not occur. I think that we must all try, regardless of who the opposition is and who sits in government benches, either reject the law and seek other solutions in Europe, or redesign it so that it is at least a little acceptable to the economy of the Czech Republic. I wasn't just talking about European money. If we accept that, it's a vicious circle. If we don't have it, we won't get it if we have this law, we won't spend it. But it is not just about European money. [[19.40 hours]] It is really about investing other than European money. I think it is extremely important not to mess around with government opposition policy and try to put together, if possible, something that will be acceptable to citizens of the Czech Republic, to industry in the Czech Republic, for the investments that we need as salt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u43	I thank Mr Urban. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura, Mr Pilný, Mr Podivínský, followed by Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u44	I completely agree with Mr Urban. I think that in my performance and my fellow zahradník, we avoided the criticisms of the current minister, who was given the solution - it was not a criticism or a minister or a government. More like pointing out the problems in general. And we think it's a better way to throw it away and find a better solution together. If you choose the other path, we're prepared to find a better solution for the other way, so that the law is better. And it really isn't just about the European money, because we hear the huge amount, but when you compare GDP or the state budget and private investment, it threatens a much bigger sum. And now I'm not saying we should resign to the European money. No way. So we're not going to play the line here as if we're going to have a political or exclusive government versus opposition, that's what tax laws or social laws are for, which I think is exactly where we have to meet politically. But here we have to find a solution, and then we can argue about what we're going to build. If we don't find him, we're not building anything. And it doesn't matter who has what electoral program at the level of the community, the region or the state, because they won't be able to realize it anyway. So I welcome it. And for our club, I'm saying that we're going to take part in these expert debates, whether on this proposal or on the new one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u45	I want to add amen. With another factual remark, Mr Pilný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u46	I'll be really brief. I think that the proposal is so serious that it really requires real discussion on individual committees. Very detailed, very detailed about the individual things that are there. In this composition here in 98 people, when we give general opinions about what it does and doesn't do, it just isn't enough. I'm gonna try to appeal - now I'm gonna say a terrible cliché - across the political spectrum. Let us maintain common sense and submit this proposal to a professional discussion where we will deal with the individual details, not the general statements that are made here from this counter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u47	Thank you, Mr Pilný. In addition, Mr Tomáš Podivínský, with a factual point, followed by Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u48	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, this is indeed such a serious matter that I cannot imagine that responsible Members would be able to break the law. A lot of people have done a lot of work on that bill. And it is not true that no one negotiated in Brussels. If you were there in Brussels and negotiated officially in ministerial positions or others, you know how hard it is. And that there are no white lambs sitting there, but that sometimes they are really ultragreen rams, I apologize for that, and that it is often very difficult with them. So I'm interrogating myself for all these suggestions so we can all work hard on this bill here. And not only that, but to involve all our MEPs. Because even this will be a very important component in having a reasonable EIA law here, so that we can build and yet not be destroyed by our nature. And please distinguish between ecologists and environmentalists, these are two very distinct concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u49	Thank you, Mr Weird. Mr Bendl, followed by Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u50	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to thank Mr Urban, because we see it about the same way, with the difference that we believe that it is so complicated to redo this complex standard in committees that we are more inclined to return to the petitioner. And that doesn't mean that we're not willing to participate in any teamwork on that standard, if we're asked to do it, so that it goes to the House in some modified version, because we agree - and I wanted to thank you for that - in that, as it is written, it will slow down the Czech Republic even more than it's holding it back today. I just agree, and thank you so much for the words. It is true that - you will probably agree here, even though you have noticed when you calculate how many coalition MPs there are, if all the opposition has checked out to you, we will not be able to do anything. Because there is such a significant standard that there is no coalition 67 Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u51	I thank Mr Bendl. With another factual remark, Mr Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would follow up on what my fellow Member Bendl said before me about how we are discussing what is at risk here. Colleagues and co-workers, remember how the business law was discussed here. We have to, we're gonna redo it on the committees... Have you forgotten what happened here? And from the debate I'm hearing here, from the arguments that are falling here, I'm starting to get the impression that we're going crazy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u53	I thank Mr Fiedler. It's been a long time waiting with Mrs Pěnčíková's proper application. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] She's obviously happy that it came to her. [[Smile present.]] Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u54	Good evening, I think everyone's happy. I'm gonna make this show really short, because what I'm about to say here is completely unnecessary. After more than an hour of debate, it's clear to all of us that the EIA is not a problem, but it's a fuck-up, pardoning this honorable room. [[The noise in the hall, the smile and the applause of some present.]] What Mr Urban said here, if I were wearing a hat, I would, through the President, cut off because he read my thoughts and said it for me. I agree with every word he says. What was said is just facts. With the EIA, as it is presented, we are not going anywhere at all. I'm not here to name the reasons. That's been said many times. I wanted to propose today to interrupt the discussion of this point, because I have intervened with the Minister on documents relating to communication between the Ministry and the European Commission. We consider the documents extremely important so that we can make a proper decision as to whether or not the EIA should look like this. Telling us that all the demands that are there are purely the demands of the European Commission is kind, but if I do not have the arguments in my hand, I cannot make proper decisions about them. But I finally decided not to make the proposal because, in a way, I understand the Minister's need for time. But now I'm gonna push him too. I'm gonna push him to release the documents and make them available to all of us so we can get to know them properly and make the right decision. There was a motion to dismiss. Since this law is necessary, I don't think rejecting it will help us in this situation. That's why I'd rather return the amendment to the recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u55	I apologize, Madam - I prefer to go back to redoing - means that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u56	Okay. I'm making a motion to return the amendment to the recast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u57	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Martin Novotný, followed by the Minister with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u58	Mr President, colleagues, I may be a little bit mediated in my reaction to the words that Mr Podivínský here has said about what negotiations have been going on and that it is not that this has not been done. In recent years, I have had such a personal experience that I have fought the European Commission for years, one of its bodies, in the water sector. After eight years, I won this almost futile fight as mayor, and my city was then given the truth. Unfortunately, I also won this fight after eight years because, regardless of our political affiliation, none of the Czech Prime Ministers of the time supported us. In neighbouring Slovakia, I don't know if at the time he was in power I think Robert Fico, I say this regardless of his political affiliation, in the same area the Slovak Prime Minister hit the table, said that Slovakia's position was such and such - and behold, he managed to achieve completely different conditions and legal disputes that we had for years, which cost us hundreds of thousands of crowns and threatened millions of damage, Slovakia despite having the same problems, did not solve. [[19.50 hours]] I mean, this law is so significant that it goes beyond even the stress level, and that it is a law that is a test of political leadership. And unfortunately, it is symbolic that by the time we start discussing it, the Prime Minister, who should hear it most from this House, is not here at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u59	I thank Mr Novotný. Two more factual points, Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Podivínský, Mr Birke - three. prosit, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u60	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to a colleague of Podivínský because I refuse to be emotionally blackmailed. Then I want to have a calm sleep and a calm conscience. This bill will have negative fatal consequences. And for one example, I've already told some of my colleagues, pointed it out. The coalition here has pushed hard through our objections and warnings through the amendment to the Land Purchase Act, if I cut it short - Mr. Prachař. It was preposterous. We've alerted him here, many colleagues and colleagues have warned him that it's wrong, it's fatally... There's no analysis yet, but do you have any idea how much damage this guy's caused? [[There's restlessness in the room.]] It concerns only the state, however, the media, as she wrote about it, probably did not explain enough, so today people, even in municipal investment, believe that it will concern them, so not only did purchases stop on the state, but they also stopped at the level of municipalities and regions. Or maybe there's a lot of problems with that, because everyone says they're gonna wait for the 16 times that. And this is going to be another version of this law. I feel emotionally blackmailed, I just reject this emotional blackmail. That's really, really dangerous. A colleague of Urban. I didn't quite understand how he would behave in the vote. It is always a policy and the opposition has a comfortable position, social democracy had in the previous period, when there was a terrible dumb thing - energy labels - and even though we were already in the phase of the European Union's inflation, yet the opposition did not give us a helping hand and said: declare it, you have government responsibility. I would point out that we have now come to a similar model example. And the very last thing. My colleague Zahradník, Stanjura and others, Mrs Pěnčíková - hat down, which I do not have, point out here that he thinks that in terms of infrastructure construction, this example is wrong. Then I ask why the Department of Transport and Minister Prachař, who I do not know again, where, when it is a fatal matter for him, this law, gave a positive opinion on this, because here it was said... [[Time warning]] Sorry. Last sentence. Because here it was said that the government decided unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u61	Mr. Mr. Podivínský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u62	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to make strong reference to Mr Laudát's statement that I am blackmailing someone. I'm not blackmailing you! I beg you to make this very strong. Especially not emotionally. Especially not Mr Laudát, for whom I really have absolutely no feelings. I can say that with all my responsibilities here. Your way to Mr Novotný. Indeed, the EIA has been done a lot, and it is not true that the country's top officials have not been involved, Prime Minister Rusnok has been involved, President Zeman has been involved, among other things, of course. It's worked a lot, a lot of bureaucrats, and there's really a lot of work to do. Let's not throw this under the table, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u63	Thank you, Mr Weird. Mr Birke, Mr Pfléger after him, Mr Vojtěch Filip. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to have any cheap speeches right now, and I am not going to disrespect the political situation and the political issue that is very serious. I listened to you all very carefully and basically answered my question, which was about a year ago, why I actually ran for the Chamber of Deputies. And maybe this is one of the reasons. I've been mayor for four years, it's going to be four years in 14 days, and these are exactly the moments when the mayor of the city, the mayor just doesn't know what to do - land, construction, environmentalists, various civic associations and so on. Let me be very polite, and I think that I appreciate the words of the President of the club, through you, Mr Vice-President, Mr Stanjura, who has made it clear that he is ready in the committees, in the expert discussion that was discussed by the various committee chairmen, to ask you on behalf of perhaps all the mayors, not just those who are here in the House, so that we can simply put it on the committees for a technical debate and perhaps ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Industry to shout more, because they are also concerned. That's what's important, and that's what I'd like to ask you to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u65	Thank you, Mr Birke. Mr Pfléger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u66	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to draw attention to one important thing that has been said here several times, but no one has stressed it. If we drop the law or return it, we will not receive the euro from the European Commission since 2015. So I recommend what Mr Birke said, send it to the committees, discuss it in the committees, make comments about it, change makers, and build up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u67	I thank Mr Pfléger. Mr Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u68	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a procedural proposal to interrupt this item in October and, at this time, between the end of this meeting and the beginning of the October meeting, we will hold a seminar on this law, because I believe that this bill cannot be recast in committees in a way that is consistent with the conditions of the European Union. And I suggest that until then, even in that seminar at the Ministry of Environment, they prepare a comprehensive amendment that can be discussed! I propose to vote on this proposal without debate, as the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u69	I will do so without debate. It's a procedural proposal. I have a request for everyone to check out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr Filip's proposal to interrupt this item until the beginning of the October session of the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a serial number 235 vote. 97 Members and Members are registered, for 32, versus 59. The motion was not accepted. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. I beg the Minister's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to thank you for a number of constructive proposals and believe that I am very well aware of the importance of the standard. I dare say that I am a minister who knows his standards, can almost memorize them, I could almost speak about the EIA somewhere, however much you can believe that this is not something that I can speak about easily. I know the situation we are in, and I promise you on my honor and on my conscience that we will be most helpful, as the Ministry of the Environment on all committees we are prepared to discuss everything to the brink, we are prepared to consult things in order to find a compromise. I don't want to comment on all things right now, I don't want to hold back, I'm happy to discuss it with every one of you who asked those questions. Just a few notes. I don't succumb to green activists, I'm neither green nor blue. I'll prove it to you. Unfortunately, what Mrs Pěnčíková has proposed is a question for lawyers, because I have evidence from the Infringement Commission, we have clear e-mails that clearly tell us "this is our request." Agreements with the European Commission in respect of the suspensive effect of the courts. I have to consult with the lawyers if we can, because there's a running infringement. We can't use it officially. I have to consult with the lawyers, don't be mad at me, some things are very serious de iure. So I certainly don't want to make any mistakes. We are prepared in committees with the full power of the Ministry both legal and professional to deal with you. Believe me, it is not for complex amendments, because the key things that bother you, and I am partly certain to identify with you, at least on some of the things that I think are really going beyond that framework, so they are in a few paragraphs. It's not for a total change. That means it's definitely not a business law. I believe that this can be dealt with in these committees. What might complicate our situation a little - foreign models fell here. Slovakia fell here. Ladies and gentlemen, Slovakia, for our misfortune, currently has a completely new EIA law approved within the European Commission, which is far more liberal than what I am presenting today. Anyone, a natural person, from any area, may express themselves there. We've got the law far more shaved. And the European Commission is telling us - well, why does it bother you if it doesn't bother the Slovák who are doing exactly the same at the moment and are your brothers? It's hard to say, because here we have a lot of blackmailers who unfortunately abuse it, have racketering and take advantage of it. In some cases, of course, these are absolutely regular efforts by the civil associations, and I follow up on what Tomáš Podivínský said. Yes, it's true, we have environmentalists here, we have - well, I don't want to be someone else - environmentalists, and I'd just use an even worse word. But please take it that the problem of this state, he is not so much in that standard, because Europe uses a similar standard, with a great opportunity to express itself to the public. He's in the courtroom. Because that court will decide in three months or in four months, and it's done. And he'll decide on objections in one trial. It's been ten years here. But it's not about normal. This means that we have entered the European Union, we must accept something. It's harder to say that unfortunately what works elsewhere doesn't work for us. And I would like to emphasise once again that I believe that, within those committees - and for Mr Urban, by your means, Mr President. Mr Urban knows me, we've known each other for a while, he knows I can communicate very well across. Of course, I know the industry's comments. I know them very well. We're communicating about it, just like we're not in control. I think I can communicate with the wide range. I know where the dog is buried. Now it's just that we can dig him up - we can dig him up, but it's important that we can push it through. Because it's not that we're afraid of someone. I have a clear message here: you will do this, and you will not have European funds. Yes, there will be a new European Commission, we can renegotiate. I'm a pretty decent negotiator, but I have to say, I've never had a gun like this at my sleep - armed. With it being said - either this or nothing. This is a situation, please. But it's no remorse for Brussels either. Yes, we are reaping fruit that, of course, was born, or ripe years before, and now it's all fallen on us. But I'm not making excuses. It's our job. So I would like to ask you, in spite of all the reservations you have, and at least partly rightly, to have this expert debate - and I am ready for it, and we will do everything we can to convince you that we will really get to what the compromise will bring, and it should really only be for a year, we are working with the MMR on a comprehensive standard, as I have already said, to release it to committees and give it a chance, because otherwise we are going to have a really big problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u71	I thank the Minister. The rapporteur's final statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u72	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to make a very brief statement. I just want to say that even under the impression of today's debate, I have to say that the Department of Transport is presenting a standard here that is not completely finished. [[Transportation? Environment.]] There's definitely no match in that... Department of Environment, thank you. It presents a standard which is not completely finished and at least there is no agreement on it with the Coalition Members. And we have faith that the standard that is not entirely perfect is going to be worked out in the committees. I'm afraid we won't be able to complete the standard in the committees. We, in these committees, are going to make this standard, and we are going to make amendments to the amendment. I personally think that the debate that Minister Brabec is now offering us was to be held before this amendment was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. Minister Brabec told us on that schedule that he's been working on that standard since March. So I think that the objections that were raised here by the Coalition Members could have already been incorporated into this standard. Indeed, after this discussion, I am inclined to return the amendment to the petitioner for completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u73	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before we vote - the general debate has unfortunately been closed. [[Thank God.]] Mr Laudát with priority rights for the TOP 09 and the Mayors. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u74	Thank you for the floor, I won't be holding up much longer. First of all. The Economic Committee has made it clear, and now I do not know whether we even have a resolution on this, or whether it was merely a general agreement, a proposal or a resolution, that we are asking that this amendment be processed to a minimum and that it is merely based on the requirements that are supported by the law of European law, not by the e-mail requirements of officials from Brussels. First of all. Two. Minister, such things - and also for other departments, my recommendation, please try to endure. Cyprus was in a very difficult situation before it was accepted into the European Union. He wanted it not to be a tax haven and to comply with the European Union. Do you know what they did? They hired top European experts from a well-known Austrian economic college in Vienna, giving them an assignment. They have designed this task to be more or less a tax haven and to comply with European law. And they're authorities that don't even allow themselves to be kicked off in Brussels. And when it came, they wrote a script, including the paragraphs, as it should sound, they came, they started the kafrat politicians, so the processors told them in Parliament during the discussion: You know, either you approve this as a whole, or we're not responsible for it and you're probably gonna burn. It is a question of whether you should not have gone this way, to hire the authorities of European law, to put an assignment in such a way that it really is what can be done - when it's messed up by officials, attorneys from the Ministry of Finance or others, it's for all the ministries, so then we get into the traps that you're clearly getting us into. Not by my own fault, I don't blame you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u75	I thank Mr Laudát. I would like to inform the others that the general debate has been closed and we will proceed to the vote on the proposals that have been tabled. The first was Mr Zahradník's proposal to reject the proposal, then Mrs Pěnčíková's proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. The Minister has something to do with this. [[To discuss in plenary:]] I apologize if we are talking about the proposals on the commandment to the committees, after that, if the proposals for rejection fail. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u76	I would like to ask for a reduction in the time limit for the committees to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u77	Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u78	And that's exactly what's going to degrade the whole debate about how we're going to work on it, how serious it is, how we have to do it. [[With emphasis:]] He's demoting! You can vote it off. We can't block it. But then don't talk about how we're gonna do this together, how serious it is, how you have to judge it. It's just not possible! They're gonna sit on committees that have a lot of other things to worry about, not just that, and you want it sloppy in 30 days! That's all you're suggesting! So just keep talking about how we're gonna do it. We can't do that in 30 days. You can vote for it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u79	And now we're really going to vote. First of all, Mr Zahradník's proposal to reject the proposal. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on Mr Zahradník's proposal to reject the proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 236. 98 Members of Parliament signed up for 27, versus 61. The motion was not accepted. We also have Mrs Pěnčíková's proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I declare this vote confusing, and I declare you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on Mrs Pěnčíková's proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote 238. The application is 98, for 32 Members, against 58, the proposal has not been accepted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Committee on the Environment and I have noted the proposals for discussion here to the Economic Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u80	I have yet to note the proposal for discussion in the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u81	Does anyone else have any other proposals besides these four committees? He doesn't. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. First, we will vote on the commandment to discuss the Committee on the Environment. I am opening the vote on the commandment to discuss the Committee on the Environment. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 239 vote. 97 Members and Members are registered, for 94, against 1. The motion was accepted. Next, I have a motion for a commandment to the Economic Committee. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who is in favour, raise your hand and press the button to order the bill to the Economic Committee. Who's against it? It's a 240 vote. 97 Members and Members registered, for 95, against none. The third proposal is a proposal for the commandment of this bill to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which I have launched a vote on. Whoever is for the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 241. 97 Members and Members signed in for 92 against none. The final proposal for the commandment is a proposal for the commandment of the Committee on European Affairs. I am opening the vote on the commandment of the Committee on European Affairs. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 242 vote. Registered 101 Members, for 93, versus 1. We have also ordered this bill to the Committee on European Affairs. The Minister also proposed to shorten the deadline by 30 days, and I am opening the vote to shorten the deadline for discussing this bill by 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 243 vote. 104 Members and Members are registered, for 32, against 49. The motion was not accepted. Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, just one last sentence. I would like to ask when the final cc of concrete in the Czech Republic will be ceremonially laid, if Prime Minister Sobotka could invite us in on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-25-ps2013-017-07-008-049.u83	I note that the deadline has not been shortened and we have ordered the bill to be discussed by the Committee on the Environment, the Economic Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and the Committee on European Affairs. I end the first reading of this bill and end today's meeting on the 17th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm interrupting the House meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Have a good night and have a good evening.
