ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u1	101. Draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for the year 2013 / House printing 189/ The SAO's opinion was delivered as press 189/1 and I welcome the President of the Supreme Audit Office, Mr Miloslav Kala, among us. I ask the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš to take the floor and present the proposal. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the State Budget for 2013 has been approved by Act No. 504/2012 Coll. as a deficit with a deficit of 100 billion. Kč. Total revenue was budgeted at 1076,4 billion. CZK and expenses in volume 1176,4 billion. Kč. In relation to the Act approved by the State Budget for 2013, the total actual revenue was increased by 1.4 % and expenditure was not spent by 0,3 % of the budget. The implementation of total revenue to 101.4 % represented an excess budget of 15.5 billion. CZK, which was influenced by overcoming non-tax income and other income in the amount of CZK 25,7 billion. CZK, with a tax loss of 4.6 billion. CZK and loss of income from social security contributions in the amount of CZK 5.6 billion. Kč. The amount of non-tax income and other income mainly affected the revenue from the European Union's budget and the contribution of 6 billion. CZK from the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic to the income of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. Year-on-year total state budget revenues reached were 40.5 (?) billion. CZK, this is 3.8 % higher than in 2012 when revenues rose the most. [[unintelligible]] The tax quota increased by 0.5 percentage point to 33,5 percent of GDP in 2013. It was mainly influenced by the amendment to the VAT Act, which increased both tax rates by 1 percentage point to 15 and 21 percent. Furthermore, the increase in excise duty rates on tobacco products, or the reduction in the refund of mineral oil tax on persons using these oils for primary agricultural production, from 60 to 40 percent. The total expenditure of the approved state budget was 99.7 %, saving the budgeted amount of 3.2 billion was achieved. Kč. This was achieved mainly in the field of non-investment purchases and related expenditure, including interest expenditure on state debt. Expenditure includes drawing up entitlements from unused expenditure declared in previous years when claims of 90,4 billion have been reduced during 2013. Kč. Situation of claims on unused expenditure between 2008 and 2013 as at 1. 1. 2014 reached 146,6 billion. CZK and it was CZK 13.4 billion. CZK higher than the condition at 1. 1. 2013. It is mainly about the means which are or are to be covered by the European Union's resources. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. Annually, the total actual expenditure of the state budget increased by 20.7 billion compared to 2012. CZK, that's 1.8 percent. The share of the total expenditure of the State budget for GDP in 2013 was 30,2 %, while in 2012 it was 30 %. The share of mandatorial expenditure in total expenditure was 57.1 %, which is 0.4 percentage point more than in 2012. The resulting 2013 state budget deficit of 81.3 billion. CZK 18.7 billion. CZK lower than the legally estimated volume and by 19.7 billion. CZK lower than the deficit declared in 2012. The share of the declared government deficit in GDP in 2013 was 2.1 %, which is 0.5 percentage point less than in 2012. Reported State Budget Deficit for 2013 of 81,3 billion. CZK proposes to deal with financing items as follows: issued sovereign bonds of 78,6 billion. CZK, received by long-term loans of 4,9 billion. CZK, change in state financial assets accounts, increase of CZK 2.2 billion. Kč. The settlement of the state budget deficit resulted from Act No.504/2012 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2013, and the actual structure and level of individual sources of cover for the resulting deficit. Madam Members, I ask you, on behalf of the Government, to take note of the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2013 and, at the same time, to agree to settle the State Budget deficit for 2013, as stated in the draft resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Before we proceed on this point, I would inform you that Mr Adámek apologizes for today's meeting from 12 p.m. for work reasons, Mr Gabal also apologises within 10 p.m. for work reasons. I would also like to inform you that your emails in line with the promise have been sent to you a short schedule of the 10th meeting and will continue to be done. As soon as this material is modified according to the current situation in the morning, it will be sent to you immediately thereafter. I hope it will contribute to a better orientation on the House programme. [[9.50 hours]] The Committee on Budgets has discussed the Committee's resolutions on this material with the participation of the rapporteurs. The budget committee resolution was delivered to you as press 189/2. The SAO's opinion was discussed by the Audit Committee and adopted a resolution delivered to you as press 189/3. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and his President, Mr Votava, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and, where appropriate, the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, government. I would like to introduce you to the budget committee resolution. I will no longer comment on what the Deputy Prime Minister said about the state final account numbers, but I will only introduce you to the budget committee's resolution in my intelligence report. But I advise that I will then report with a brief contribution to the debate. The resolution, then. Resolution of the Budget Committee of the 10th meeting of 4 June on the Government's proposal for the Czech Republic's State Final Account for 2013, print 189. Following the opening interpretation of the Deputy Minister of Finance and after hearing the reports of the Committee's rapporteurs and following the debate, the Committee discussed at a joint meeting with the Committee's rapporteurs the resolution of the Committees on the State Final Account for 2013 and notes that all committees recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve or take note of the chapters, headings and financial relations of the State Budget to the State Funds under the commandment of Resolution No. 217 of April 29, 2014. (b) The Security Committee recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to maintain, at least, the level of expenditure of the approved budget for 2014 in the preparation of the draft State budget for 2015 and the medium-term outlook for 2016 and 2017 for the Security Information Service and to address the possibilities of financing the construction of the data centre." The Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, secondly, after discussing all the chapters and the Government's draft State Final Account for 2013 as a whole, including the Government's motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the 2013 State Final Account, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolutions: Chamber of Deputies I. Notes 1. the State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2013, which shows revenue, expenditure and overall deficit for the State Budget in 2013, as stated in the press, 2. the results of the budgetary management of local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions in the Czech Republic for 2013 - again, as indicated, in the amount of revenue, expenditure and surplus, 3. state of state financial assets of the Czech Republic as at 31 December 2013 - as indicated, 4. information on the main results of the management of the state funds of the Czech Republic for the year 2013 according to the data provided in the F draft of the state final account, 5. information on the status and development of the state guarantees referred to in the D-book of the draft state final account, 6. information on the status of the funds of the organisational units of the State referred to in the F-book of the State Final Account, 7. information on the privatisation process and on the state and use of funds held in special accounts for 2013 pursuant to Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund, II. agrees to settle the deficit of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2013 by funding items, as stated in the press, III. empowers the chairman of the committee to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution - which I have also done. I thank you for your attention and report to the debate, as I said at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u5	Thank you. And I ask the rapporteur of Mr Koníček's inspection committee to inform us about the committee's deliberations. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Audit Committee addressed the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the 2013 State Final Account of the Czech Republic, which you have as House Press 189/1, at its meeting on 11 June and adopted a resolution in which it takes note of the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the 2013 State Final Account of the Czech Republic and asks the Minister of Finance to submit corrective measures to the Audit Committee adopted and prepared by 31 August 2014 on the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the 2013 State Final Account of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, and I would be the first to give the floor to the President of the Supreme Audit Office who has asked for the floor. Please get out of the car. It is followed by Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Let me introduce you to the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the Government's proposal for the Czech Republic's State Final Account for 2013. I present this opinion to you in accordance with Section 5 of Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on Supreme Audit Office. I would like to inform you that the drafting of the opinion was based on the submitted press 189, the final accounts of each chapter of the state budget sent to the Supreme Audit Office by their administrator, the approved audit conclusions of the control actions and other knowledge of the control and analytical activity. The result of the 2013 state budget management was a deficit of 81.3 billion. CZK, which is 18.7 billion. CZK better result than expected by the Act on the State Budget, and by almost 20 billion. CZK better result compared to 2012. In particular, a lower deficit was achieved by failing to meet budget expenditure of 17,56 billion. CZK if expected revenues are exceeded by 1.17 billion. Kč. In addition to the collection of value added tax, budget revenue and transfers received were mainly due to non-tax and capital revenue, for which the budgeted amount was exceeded by 10.8 billion. Kč. On the expenditure side, capital expenditure was not spent by 13,6 billion. Kč. As part of the 2013 budgeted revenue proposal, other revenues and transfers of an extraordinary nature, namely revenues from the sale of frequency bands, revenues from the Czech Republic's State Forests, revenues from the privatisation account, were to a greater extent than in the previous year. However, only income from these extraordinary revenues was made from the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic and at a reduced rate, i.e. 10 billion. CZK from the privatization account. The decisive share of the reduction in the debt ratio in 2013 was the change in access to the provision of funds to exclude the risks associated with the financing of the state budget deficit and sovereign debt. One of the main problems of reducing the general government deficit is the deficit of the pension scheme, which is part of the general government deficit. Until now, these mandatory expenditures have not been allocated the resources that will be needed to cover this deficit in the coming years. As regards compliance with the commitments to the European Union, the draft State Final Account does not provide information that they would be violated. With regard to the use of funds from European Union funds, the draft State Final Account focuses on the figures of the amount of funds drawn up and in which areas these funds have been spent. Whether they have been used optimally, the draft state final account does not evaluate. The audit work of the Supreme Audit Office and other sources shows that there are significant shortcomings and reserves in this area. [[10.00 hours]] What should be stressed is that the total amount of contributions to the European Union budget in 2013 reached 41.7 billion. CZK and received a total of CZK 125,7 billion from the budget of the European Union during 2013. Crowns. So the net position was 84.1 billion. Crowns. In the light of the information provided in the draft State Final Account and in the light of the findings of its audit and analytical activities, the SAO points out: In order to assess the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the expenditure spent, the methodology is missing, the evaluation carried out in the final accounts of the chapters cannot be used to compare the level of management of individual organisational components or to manage public expenditure. Two. A number of measures taken to prevent tax evasion and to make recovery more effective, have not yet been reflected in the reduction in tax defaults or in the increase in the percentage of outstanding payments. Three. The decrease in capital spending by more than 11 billion. CZK compared to the reality of 2012. We also draw attention to the fact that the decrease in these expenditures in absolute amounts occurs in absolute terms as well as in the share of the total expenditures of the state budget. This decline has been taking place since 2010. Come in. The situation of claims from unused expenditures of previous years is constantly increasing, which we consider to be a risk for the implementation of the state budget in the coming years. Claims on unused expenditure amounted to 146,6 billion. kronor to 1. 1. 2014, in which there are claims from unused profiling expenditure of 130 billion. CZK and claims on unused non-profiling expenditure of 16,5 billion. Crowns. For the next one. We draw attention to the low implementation of the budget of expenditure under the programme funding, which is linked to serious problems in this area, in particular the extension of construction deadlines, the increase in construction costs, the lack of quality assessment of investment projects and the calculation of economic efficiency. Next point. We draw attention to the high number of budgetary measures implemented, especially in certain chapters of the state budget, to the permanent decline in the collection of personal income tax from self-employment, which confirms the long-term inefficiency of the collection of this tax. The management of the contributions for breach of budgetary discipline is marked by a high administrative burden not only on the state administration but also on the beneficiaries themselves, so it cannot be concluded that the management of these contributions is economical and efficient. For the next one. For sustainable fiscal development, what austerity and growth measures will be taken in this area will be crucial. The share of government debt in gross domestic product increased further to 43,4% at the end of 2013, despite a slight increase in government debt. Furthermore, the amount of government debt expenditure is constantly rising and reached 57.8 billion in 2013. CZK, that is almost 5% of the actual expenditure of the state budget. In view of the constant reduction in the level of privatisation revenues, the implementation of environmental guarantees may pose a future risk to the expenditure side of the state budget. We also draw attention to the significant risk of the automatic disappearance of the co-financing commitment from the European Union budget, thereby increasing the eligibility for the financing of the project with a possible significant impact on the state budget in the following years. Finally, in carrying out control actions, we repeatedly identify shortcomings in the underlying documents for drawing up the final accounts of the State Budget chapters, both in the field of accounting and financial reporting. Now let me introduce you to the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Office. One. To carry out an evaluation of the possible negative effects of reducing capital expenditure on further economic development and the management of the state budget. Furthermore, evaluate the function and risks of creating and drawing entitlements from unused expenditure. Three. In the case of small privatisation funds due to the state of the small privatisation process, propose a procedure as to how these funds will be dealt with further. Four. Not to use expenditure budgeted in connection with the service of state debt through budgetary measures in other chapters of the State budget, i.e. Chapter State debt should not serve as an additional possible reserve of expenditure. To make the draft State Final Account more consistent with the assessment of legislative changes, in particular in the tax field. Six. Pay more attention to the drawing up of national funds' budgets due to significant differences in the implementation of budgeted amounts on the revenue and expenditure side. Seven. The draft State Final Account should also include information in part of the data on state financial assets on the amounts receivable from the return financial assistance provided, equity holdings and securities owned by the State and managed by chapter administrators, which the Ministry of Finance is obliged to register outside the State Financial Assets. Finally, the last recommendation that the draft State Final Account should include selected data on public budgets also in ESA 95. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the attention you have given to the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the draft State Final Account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Another party to the debate is Mr Votava. Mrs Hnyková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In short, I would also say a few words outside my news report. I realize that we are essentially closing an account here with no innkeepers, as I would say, because today there is a completely different political representation sitting in government benches after the early elections, which did not prepare the 2013 budget, which did not work with it, and therefore is not responsible for the outcome of the state's management. Of course, there are former members of the government who have participated in this and are Members today. I'm sure you do. In my opinion, the results of the 2013 budget are at first sight, according to the actual amount of state budget deficit achieved, perhaps commendable, at least some do so, fighting in their breasts - but I would say if. In fact, despite the deficit that has fallen, it certainly is not. Compared to the planned state budget deficit of 100 billion. The state budget deficit decreased by almost 19 billion. CZK 81 billion. CZK, but more than two thirds of this savings were investments. Of course, this unplanned, but all the more realistic restrictions could not be reflected in economic performance. Gross domestic product repeated a year-on-year real decline of another 0.9 percent and the Czech Republic as the only one in Central European space recorded another year of economic decline. That's real, that's real. That is why I, like some, do not rejoice over this result. For the sake of completeness, I will add that this decline was, of course, a 12 billion loss of revenue against the approved state budget. CZK and for entire public budgets almost 17 billion. Crowns. Overall, there was a further increase in restrictions compared to 2012, a year-on-year decline in demand in the range of about 30 billion. CZK, that is 0.77 of gross domestic product. The question of what can we learn from this development for this year and next year for drawing up budgets for next year. Above all, the inertia of restrictive budgetary policy was extremely high in right-wing governments in the Czech Republic. This is a clear absence of a clearly formulated pro-growth economic policy. Policies that could clearly guide budgetary resources to measures with the potential to promote economic growth. And switching from supporting restrictions to promoting growth, so this is definitely the main task of the current government coalition. I would say that economic growth is therefore a priority of all priorities. [[10.10 hours]] The question must also be asked why, for example, investments have been saved in a situation where the Czech Republic has once again dealt with floods and the need to remove flood damage. Why the so-called plan was saved at a time when a number of resorts are affected by hidden debts and it is only a question of when it will start to be visible and when it will start threatening the quality and scope of public services. In a number of resorts, this has already been expressed, for example in health care. The decline in public investment is a key problem in the management of public budgets in recent years. The reduction in investment expenditure did not take place for the first time in 2013, it was not the first year. Also in 2012 investment expenditure decreased. And reducing these expenditures can also be seen as a relatively serious danger for this year and next year, especially because investment restrictions are reflected mainly in the launch and preparation of new buildings. The very specific result of this development is also the perspective for this year, which is not expected to be passed on to the use of new sections of motorways or reconstructed railway lines. Yet this year should be a reflection of the bottom for the construction industry, and this is what the results of the last four months of the year, when some recovery takes place. Thus, growth measures aimed at investment must also go to the aid of our construction industry, which is not exactly in a happy situation. Its capacity decreased by a third compared to 2008 and had to leave 50 thousand. People out of the field. Achieving savings - and I am asking you to put it in quotes - last year precisely in the area of investment in the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure must be seen as a step that weakens the economy. However, it must also be stressed that the argument that these investments are often a source of inefficiency cannot be underestimated and that is true, and the current government will have to deal with this. There is also a fact behind the low use of these investments, and it must be frankly said that the selection procedures for new buildings are being extended, and this further slows the smoothness of the construction of transport infrastructure. The development of the budget in the first quarter of this year was actually very favourable and can be expected to a large extent, if, of course, the assumptions about economic growth are confirmed, that it will be better on the revenue side than was foreseen when the 2014 budget was approved. I therefore believe that it is already necessary to address the very serious issue of how to deal with funds that are very likely to be selected beyond the expectations of the approved budget for 2014. In my opinion, it is not for the government to allow a repetition of last year's situation, when the actual budget deficit ended up against the planned deficit at a significantly lower level, but most of this decline in the deficit was precisely a reference to the failure to meet the planned investments. Investic as a factor supporting economic growth. It is, of course, also about including some supporting and mainly feasible projects in the next year's budget. In addition to supporting investment in the development of transport infrastructure, this project could also support the construction of social housing. The benefits of the project for the construction of social flats consist in its high multiplication in relation to growth and employment, the possibility of variability of the project in relation to regional needs and individual social groups, the possibility of using the project as a remedy for social impacts of deregulation of rents in socially endangered people and in causing pressure against sometimes criminal practices in the residential environment. So that's one possible theme, one possible pro-growth factor. So I wanted to point out briefly that the correction of the situation left here by previous governments will only allow us to grow economically. And a key instrument of this policy must be the state budget, which must include significant pro-growth measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next envoy is Mrs Hnyková, Mr Koníček will be prepared. And if you'll excuse me, I'd be quick to read more apologies. There has been an apology from Mr Votava since 12.30 and then there are two excuses from Mr Šincl. In fact, the first is information, canceling its original apology from today's meeting from 10:10 p.m. and apologizing only from 12:30 p.m. Well, that is an apology, and please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good morning. We have heard the report on the 2013 final account here. However, I cannot remain silent about some of the things that have been said and are closely related to this budget. [[There's a constant noise in the O.R.]] When Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs discussed and approved the Committee on Social Policy, we learned from the petitioners that no one was really responsible for it. You may have heard it in your respective committees, too. The current government says we've been in for a long time. And those who have designed it and answered over time are not here either. What can we do? We're paying for mistakes, and we're all paying for the amount of deficit we have here. And responsibility? It's really imaginary. She was, and I'm starting to feel like it's gonna continue. After my introduction, I will return to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' budget and focus on the chapter Taking benefits in material distress. It's been said. They are paid on the basis of Act No. 111/2006 Sb. The approved budget for material distress benefits was 7,500 million in 2013. Crowns. The budget was adjusted during the year and increased to a final amount of 10 622 416, so there was an increase of 3 122 416 throughout the chapter. I'm gonna stop by the kind of benefits, and that's a housing supplement. The fact for 2012 was 1,673 919 and the fact for 2013 was CZK 1,140 453 higher. Mr President, could you make peace here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u13	Yes, I'm sorry. We all know who the sinner is, and he'll do better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u14	Thank you. I don't want to scream, but if it does, then it sounds like it. And where did these funds end up? People who abuse the social status of people who are in material need and enrich themselves at their expense. That the rents they set up for them were so outrageous that it cost us so much money last year. And believe me, this money could be used in another chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to increase the salaries of social services workers who are the worst-rewarded group of workers among civil servants. But that's not the point! It is better to support those who enrich themselves with human misery than those who honestly care for the elderly and the disabled! I held a seminar here about people I called the people who care about others, or the position and remuneration of employees in social services. At this seminar we wanted to draw attention together to the long-standing issue of remuneration for social services workers and their salary, which is currently 7 121 CZK below the average in the Czech Republic. For demanding care they are rewarded for care at bedside with an average of 16,000 gross. [[10.20 hours]] I know this subject is not interesting to journalists or some of you. Everyone cares about social services when they need them. At that point, he's interested in quality and accessibility, but no one's asking how these workers are rated, who take care of old and sick people and disabled people. Believe me, we don't know when we're gonna need social services because we're gonna stay dependent on the other person. This can happen to you immediately, for example after a car accident or when you are hit by a drunk or drugged driver and you are severely injured and possibly confined to a wheelchair, or you may be affected by a severe illness. I understand that the numbers and information on salaries in social services will not be of interest to the general public. That is all the more we should be dealing with this issue, as this segment of services is significant and irreplaceable in our lives. And I repeat and return to an average salary in the welfare sector, which is far from being paid in the non-business sector throughout the national economy, as I have already told you. It cannot be argued that there is insufficient resources in the state budget for salaries, but they need to be properly managed. Less money has been provided for social care in the Czech Republic than this sector would deserve. Although our society is getting older, social welfare has been largely neglected in recent years and the legitimate claims of providers have been seen as draining money from the state budget. I hope that the new government will be better managed and that it will find funds to raise salaries for social services workers. Thank you so much for all of them and for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u15	Thank you, Madame, and Mr Koníček, a colleague of Mr Laudát will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my report, I said that the Audit Committee asked the Minister for information on the adoption, if any. the measures planned to remedy the facts set out in the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the 2013 State Final Account. I would like to ask the Prime Minister from this point of view that the Government as a whole should also address the position of the Supreme Audit Office. Because, Prime Minister, it is not possible for the same shortcomings to occur repeatedly in the opinion, and the government has done nothing about it! I also want to turn to you all because the House is the body that controls the government, and if you look at the last two sides of the opinion, there are shortcomings in the content and scope of the final accounts of the chapters under the provisions of Decree No. 419/2001 Sb. The table is quite extensive, and it shows that a large number of chapters have a problem handing over to the House a draft state final account that would comply with the decree. They're handing over incomplete materials to the Ministry, and we're saying yes to them here in the House. Try to look at that table, members of the government, so that the next final account is at least formally in order, and the rest of you, so that you have the inspiration to watch out for next time. And I would also like to ask the Minister of Finance what he will do with the 2012 State Final Account, because although the last House was presented as a press 1010, it only discussed it in committees, but the new House does not have such a press, and the Ministry of Finance lacks the House's approval to settle the deficit for about 100 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u17	The next envoy is Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few comments. To Mrs Hnyková. I think there is quite a clear responsibility for this year's state budget. Whoever voted for him here in the House is equally responsible. You can't make excuses for the shortness of time. I suppose if you're joining the firm, you're supposed to be qualified. This should be all the more so if someone joins as a minister or an MP, so before that he should read not only the Lidové noviny, Law and other slices, but he should also prepare himself a little bit, otherwise he is extremely irresponsible. So those who voted in favour of the budget are responsible. No one else. And the briefness of time does not excuse, there was a certain space for changes and adjustments. If you can do that, at least fast changes, immediate changes could be made here. If you can't, then you're going to have something to eat, and then you're not going to be surprised what Fischerův's government has prepared. Today's Friday 13th, so I don't know if it's gonna be a happy message. It's the last budget that's gonna be about 80 billion for a long time. The deficit that we're dealing with here. I rather wanted to respond to the chairman of the budget committee. So once again, because the Social Democrats have been playing this place for years, years, and, of course, a thousand times repeated lie or manipulation becomes the truth. The Czech economy is a small open economy, highly export oriented, even more than 80 percent, and every schoolboy already in primary school should know that rules in this case are decided on by economically strong countries and entities, not weak ones. The rules of international trade, export, are not decided in the Czech Republic. The whole developed world, starting with European states and the EU, was hit by a crisis in 2008, which was probably the biggest since 1929. Please, the previous period cannot be compared to what happened after 2008 and is practically happening until today, even with a certain, whether temporary or longer-term mitigation. Therefore, deficits cannot be compared. For me, at the moment of the economic boom, when the finance minister was the current prime minister, it was criminal to cover the axe and make hundreds of billions and bigger deficits. You're blaming us on the one hand, or the Nečasův Government, indebting, on the other hand, that investments weren't going to work. So I'd ask you again, and you didn't tell us where to take it. We could do much rougher restrictions, deficits would be smaller, but what would you say next. And I'm not sure we can keep social peace in this country. Today, we're gradually approaching 2% growth, and yet you're closing an axe of 100 billion. The Minister of Finance spoke yesterday about the fact that some important sections of the Ministry of Finance and apparently other members of the state administration are humanely undersized, so officials will be recruited, etc. etc. To this day, whether it was in Brussels for the convergence programme, or yesterday for a simple raise in the vote on increasing the medium-term budget expenditure framework, I did not know where the investments were hidden there. With enormous pressure, and unfortunately not only political but also media - that was social democracy, a little warmed up the soup and ODS - you have set up a number of big unnecessary expenses for the future. I think it would be very useful to remember that in time, or I'm telling you now, in time, what a fatal error was to cancel, for example, with Cards. In vain we are here - maybe later - not my issue, but maybe someone should have explained to you how you could save on IT, what cloud structures are. Perhaps the chairman of the Pilný Economic Committee would be much more qualified here. [[10.30 hours]] You guys just set up systemically other mandatory expenses with your irresponsible behavior, by doing politics emotionally, you don't count my giving-dal - now I blame those sitting here in the past period. And as far as motorways or heavy infrastructure are concerned. Sweetheart, when you look at the world's most dynamic land, the prosperity takes place somewhere else. And those who were on a study trip in Switzerland might have noticed what dynamic countries and the prosperity we envy here and which one of the parliamentary parties wants to have mediated here, the Dawn Party. When they showed us the pie distribution of public spending in Switzerland, you might have noticed that about 16 percent of the income went to social affairs, whereas the dynamic investment resorts really multiplied. There's the key to prosperity, but you're doing politics here - you're giving, handing out, handing out for next year. However, it is Friday 13th and I say, there is the last good news, for a long time here we will discuss the state final account, which has a deficit, I think, about 82 billion. Crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have one point of fact here. Mr. Pilný. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u20	Hello, honourable members of the government, Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues and colleagues. Now that I've been mentioned here, I'd just like to briefly evaluate the period of past governments. The crisis is not just a crisis, it is also an opportunity. I'm sure the past governments didn't use it. And when a well-known American investor says that only when the tide falls does he know who was swimming naked, he's right. It is a good thing that a strong finance minister is holding the register, so it should be in every business that is to be prosperous and also in every state. And it's not good when he sets a strategy when he determines some vision of where the state or society is supposed to go. In the last government, we had a very strong finance minister who held the register, but there was no one to set up strategies and visions, so all the things that were mentioned here about IT, like with Karta, were just black holes. It's not because with Karta is wrong, but the way it's implemented was wrong. There was no one here to run any ICT strategies anywhere else. That's why we turned out the way we did. It's nice that we've held some level of deficit or state debt, but this country hasn't gotten anywhere at all, and it's finally time to change it and create visions and strategies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And before I give you my word, Mr Kalousek came forward with priority rights. [[to Mr Urban]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing against visions and strategies, Mr Pilný is undoubtedly right about this, but I also have 20 years of experience as such visions and strategies take place in political and social practice. So let's stick to ordinary numbers. We're discussing the state's final account. In this extremely difficult and unprecedented situation, Nečasův' government has made fiscal efforts, saving at an average rate of 1.4 percent of the structural deficit per year. I quote that from the official material of the Treasury Department, signed by Andrej Babiš. We saved 1.4 percent of GDP a year. It is absolutely legitimate to discuss whether this pace was too fast, if it should not be slower, or whether it was too slow, or whether it was just right. The leftist opposition has been very hard on me that the pace has been too fast and that it has unnecessarily strangled the economy. Mr. Chairman of the YES movement in the election campaign has been harshly accusing me that it was too slow and that I was not actually saving any money. Economic history will judge that. The fact is, the pace was 1.4 percent a year. I thought that this House would continue to discuss how fast or slow this pace should be. I didn't think there was going to be a discussion about the direction being reversed. That, after approving the budget of Rusnokův and Fischerův's government, which I could not support because it was unnecessarily wasteful from my point of view, with a structural deficit of 1.4, I expected that the government, which introduced the investigation into wine and talks about the investigation three times a day on TV, is holding a monster-media press conference that at least 1.4 will go at a pace - and now the legitimate debate is - half a percent a year, a percentage a year, three quarters a year. I confess that in my worst dreams, it did not occur to me that the government decided to increase the structural deficit for 2015 by at least half a percent. That means at least 20 billion. Now, at this point, you're planning a structural deficit higher than you approved of Rusnokův's government, because you said that's all we have to do, we're here now, we have to see where we can save money, and then we're gonna do the proper budget for 2015. So now it looks like you're gonna propose 20 billion. worse structural deficit than Rusnok, and we are at the beginning of a political debate. I'm afraid it'll be a percentage when he's done. And I very much ask the Chamber of Deputies as a sovereign to pay attention. I am indeed willing to take as a regular and legitimate view that I should have reduced the structural deficit more slowly. There will never be a clear answer to that. A slower pace would have its advantages and disadvantages, a faster pace would have its advantages and disadvantages, and I would respect the much slower pace of the government's structural deficit, which has a mandate to do so. But what cannot be respected is the increase in the structural deficit when the economy begins to grow! Please pay attention and don't put this country back in that situation where someone will have to drag it out again with enormous political costs!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u23	I apologise, Mr Urban, for one more point of fact, Mr Karel Rais is still on the list. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u24	Good day to you. I have nothing against the process of monitoring and reducing state expenditure, but I think it would also be good to define the initial state, and we have heard the initial state. This government and the government's Garnith are essentially carrying some kind of inheritance, and that's 50 billion. debt services that we have to fire for nothing every year. We heard it basically in the contribution of the Chairman of the SAO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u25	Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Pavel Plzák is here and, after that, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u26	Thank you for the floor. In my case, this is really a technical remark. According to recent developments, we should attribute or add to the deficit of the previous government and the 80 billion. Czech Export Banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u27	Thank you and with another factual remark, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u28	Just two very brief comments on doktor Plzák. Methodical changes are precisely the textbook cases from which the structural deficit is cleared. It is purified from economic cycles, from exceptional cases, from methodological changes. That is why we are monitoring the structural deficit and not the overall deficit. That is why the structural deficit is the only fair indicator in fiscal compact. [[10.40 hours]] A note to Professor Rais. I'm afraid it's a misunderstanding, and I'm offering a consult. The burden of the debt service chapter is logically borne by each government every year, and we have managed to reduce its overall amount thanks to austerity policy. If we were to act as if we were to increase and reduce the structural deficit, you were not now inheriting 50, but 100.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u29	Thank you. The Minister of Finance and Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš are entered into the discussion with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, it's hard to argue when someone is permanently demagogically lying. [[Laughter and applause from the right side.]] The best finance minister in the history of our country, Mr Kalousek, forecasted this in April 2013, can be traced in the convergence programme, a half a percent higher structural deficit than we do. Minister of Finance Kalousek forecasted a deficit of 120 billion for 2015. - and we say 100 billion. What the Minister boasts is that he forgot about 2009 when he predicted the growth of 4.5 and was minus 4.5. A deficit of almost 200 billion. And the deficit last year - how was it achieved? Well, first they cut civil servants' salaries by 10 percent across the board, froze pensions, even right-wingers raised taxes. I'm right-wing too. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] I don't understand why the right is raising taxes. Thanks to the YES movement, taxes will not increase in this country. In fact, we should look at how the deficit was achieved last year. Maybe I'd still like to explain the absurdity of what demands are for you to know, so that the citizens of this country know. When a normal company issues a final account, everything is in that account, even understatements. And our politicians, our public administration, made up so-called claims. Claims, that's because it's actually going next to the budget. I never understood that. This means that it is actually the unused money of those resorts that reached 140 billion from 2008 until 2013. It's just that there weren't any claims before, so every resort used it at all costs, because the philosophy of the state administration is to spend it. Spend as much as you can. Then they invented claims, so they didn't rush it anymore, so the claims are 140 billion. And yet it is mixed with European funds. It's about 100 billion there, so actually the Ministry has a budget, and next to that, it's entitled. And if anyone touched that right now, they'd spend it fast. So the philosophy is completely different. Now let us go back to the budget and the deficit last year, as it was achieved. It was achieved by not actually investing here anymore. It shall not be invested from 2010. Mr. Bárta stopped our highways, there aren't even bought out the land, there's no design here, the ŘSD is in decay, the Czech Railways are in decay with a debt of 28 billion, ČD Cargo. So that was actually achieved at the cost of not investing. I don't understand that this state hasn't even calculated that we don't have kindergarten. We're actually starting from zero. We don't even have places around big cities for primary schools where we're writing a new program. I don't know what my colleagues, typical representatives of the post-revolutionary era, were doing here. You've seen Mr. Laudát here. He's qualified, he talks about everything, he's qualified so that he was once a member of the ODS, that he participated in a great reconstruction of the Municipal House and a great reconstruction of the Congress Center, and then he signed a contract with IDS, a company that controlled the Blanka tunnel. Total tunnel. I mean, the Prague, the Blanka tunnel, the subway to Motol in 20 billion. And those trams from one of the country's former CEOs cost us 70 billion. And Mr. Laudát has a contract there. Monopoly contract. And Mr. Laudát here lectures on how we should do it. That's really smiling. We took over the country in the state that someone was talking about the BIS. Yeah, BIS - supposedly 40 seats missing. I don't ask what the BIS reports are when the BIS says every year that organized crime is growing - and some of the representatives sit in this House - into public administration. What do we do if we can't even make notes and when we read that someone is stealing from state firms, there's nothing we can do about it? And let's look at the authorities that are supposed to be here to actually keep an eye on the redistribution of our taxes. Financial office, which was run by the best finance minister in the history of the Czech Republic. Totally out of concept. The biggest tax haven - Prague. Yes. In our country, taxes don't pay much. What was the philosophy of the financial office when I asked? Well, client-friendly. So the tax jurisdiction of the Financial Authority is not entirely republican. That is why everyone moved to Prague and in Votice there is tax control once a year or two. Outside Prague control is of course very common and does not actually come here at all. Now we're looking for the new financial director of the Prague Financial Office. It's supposed to be life-threatening, they called me colleagues. Let's hope we find him. Let's take the customs administration as our great finance minister ran it. Carousel stores where companies operate directly from the budget. They just didn't reverse charge, they just didn't set up a VAT pairing at the entrance and exit, what we're gonna do, and it's gonna take two years. They just didn't put in an electronic sales report like they do in Croatia to collect taxes. It doesn't work here. We can talk about employment offices. Yes, I sat with Mrs Hnyková yesterday, I met Mrs Žitníková about six times. I've visited hospices, nursing homes and facilities for disabled children. There you see politicians who went there before the elections, who took pictures with disabled children and promised them state money. I didn't take pictures with them, but I gave them the money out of my taxed money. Yes, they should definitely get more. But we have committed ourselves to bringing this country, which we have taken over in total decay, into a balanced budget. So how are we supposed to do that now that everyone rightfully wants to raise the salaries that Mr. Kalousek and Nečas took away from them? How are we supposed to do that? How are we supposed to start building if there's nothing prepared? The money Prachař came up with the idea of buying land off the highway. Twenty-four years after the revolution, we don't even have the fucking D1 that Štrougal opened! We don't have the Lovosice - Ústí motorway, we don't have the highway on Linz, we have Vienna, we have Wroclaw. They've been dealing with Havránková for 18 years. That's the result! People like fellow Laudát - this is a great motivation for why I went into politics, because it is not possible for the same people who have nothing at all to talk about this country. We deal with everything. The army wants more money. Everyone wants more money. And we inherited some kind of budget. Who ran state firms? Was there any exercise of shareholder rights? No. Management ran our policies. All they did was push for their interests and their various funding, and now somebody's finally starting to manage. Mr Kalousek could tell us about PrivCo (?) how he drove it when we sued Volkswagen for 18 years and now we're gonna lose 310 miles. Crowns. Why did he employ the criminally prosecuted Radek Šnábl, who was supposedly the greatest arbitrage genius, and then made contracts with the office where his wife works, where the criminal report is filed. [[10.50 hours]] As you've been running environmental contracts, tell me. Why isn't it in the budget? Biggest supertunnel planned - ecological contract. Yes. How was it done? Well, we all knew how it was done. When I came to the ministry, I asked: 140 billion for ecology? Well, if it's 4 billion a year to split up, how do you do it? Well, sometimes people would go, and they'd go, "I'd do it, like, an environmental accident." Gentlemen of Antoš, the Zím, these are all the former subordinates of the Minister who were involved. Now the owner of Sokolov coal was behind me. There's a $300 million environmental contract in place. Well, I wonder, maybe you can do it for 74! The Treasury. Yes. You're talking about the budget. Just clicking. Like me, I see how we actually do it. Why do we not have liquidity management of the state online? Why did we put 4.6 billion in the Treasury, and what do we get out of it? Some kind of booking reservation? It is interesting that we are presenting a deficit of 100 billion next year. In 2014, the deficit will be about 100 billion. Next year, too, 100 billion. That's 200. And 2013 debt at the end of the year will be equal to debt 2015. That means, even if the deficit is 200, the debt will remain the same. Why? Because when I came to the ministry, we started issuing bonds economically. We have also started investing in euro coins, which will make some additional revenue - 150 million. Let Minister Kalousek explain how it was at the State Representation Office in property matters. Why haven't we had five and a half thousand properties piled up in the CRAB since 2012? Why isn't it centralized? Why did you make contracts with the mob of justice? With Dr. Kučera and Vesecka? No filling! And other contracts. And that's what we're spreading. And the citizens of this country will see how it's done here. That's not a pose, those audits. If someone here is 16 billion on contracts that have lasted since 1993 or 1995, and the supplier hasn't changed, well, that's very interesting. I'm sure we need to talk to the SAO - an absurd debate about competences. Yeah, let the SAO publish everything. I'm sure I'll be happy to take action on the basis of the SAO's recommendations. I don't have a problem with that. We also have to say from an investment point of view - the Public Procurement Act, how it works, how the EIA works here, how we actually have problems at the UOHS. Yes. So there's so many problems at once, and we've clearly said, and unfortunately, we have to deal with everything because there was no investment here at all. That's why the deficit is so low last year. Because it wasn't invested. Money was coming back. The money was going back into the budget. That's ridiculous. And now we actually want to do everything at once. What Mr Laudát and Mr Kalousek are saying here is really smiling. All you have to do is track down what they forecast. And especially the state in which the previous governments left us this country. And for me, it's really a start. And I don't know who can expect anything more specific from us in five months than we've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I have four factual points here, and then Mr Kalousek is signed up with priority rights. With the first point of fact, Mr. Adolf Beznoska is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I only wanted a few economic data, but after this speech, at least one sentence. I'm far from telling anyone what speeches in the House are supposed to look like. That's why I'm free to quote one Mr. Ivo Rittig's twitter. I'm sure you know that name. I've never met that man in my life. In his Twitter post, he says, "Andrea, you better keep your mouth shut after all we've been through in 15 years." [[Storming applause for ODS Members.]] I took the liberty of just reminding myself of this. To get back to the economic data... Of course, the situation where the economic crisis and the deficit of 80 billion last year came, that is, at a decline in the economy of 0.9 percent. Growth is expected for this and next year, which will be above 2% of GDP. This means, we are really talking about the fact that if we were to load 1 percent of economic growth, which is roughly 15 billion, 2 percent is 30 billion, and if the deficit is another 20 billion higher than it was last year, then we can't talk about setting up some austerity measures here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. With another point of fact, Mr Michal Kučera is registered. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would also react very briefly to the speech by Minister Babiš and also follow up on the quote made by my colleague Beznoska here. You know, Minister Babiš, your party colleague Minister Brabec said about you in a diary that you came from another planet. I really have to give him the truth after this speech. You really sound like an alien in here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u35	Another point of fact is made by Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I think Mr. Babiš here has shown what your vision of society is. I don't understand why they're suing in Slovakia. I think with every speech, with every performance, with what he says and does, he proves that his practices before 1989 were so hard on his skin that he couldn't even get rid of them after 20 years. [[YES Members are laughing]] [[Members of the YES protest.]] I don't care about his business. I don't care how he put up an ex-premiere in a hapka, who went on his way to bůh today. I don't care if he was friends or friends with Rittig. It's his business. And any decent person should care about what he has to worry about. Yesterday on the Committee on Budgets - now I finally understand why the Ministry of Finance is completely out of control, and I even considered very seriously after his embarrassing exposé yesterday on the Committee on Budgets, that I would put in a motion to include a point of "the functioning of the Ministry of Finance." Last week, a fiasco about the budget of institutions that have an independent statute, it had to be because of Mr Babiš twice, virtually. his resort. What he was doing there was an embarrassment festival. And it wasn't my words that the President of the Constitutional Court said there. Let me tell you something, folks. It sounded right here from this bench. [[points for himself on the government bench]] It's the first time in my career that I haven't discussed my institution's budget with the Minister of Finance. It's the first time I haven't filed a consensual budget with the Treasury. And it's the first time I've ever met unworthy people in the Treasury. The reaction didn't wait long. If you look at it, it was already on lidovka yesterday, how the Constitutional Court wanted to get two expensive cars.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u37	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, your time is up for two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u38	Thank you. I'll sign in again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u39	Thank you. Another registered point of fact is Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u40	Thank you for the floor, I'm sure two minutes will do. When you complain again that the opposition is obstructing, remember when you're obstructing yourself. I would suggest that the Minister of Finance write another speech. That's the third time I've heard it. Why not, I think everyone can say what they want. However, for every question on the Committee on Budgets, for every particular question on a number we hear the same, I do not know whether the speech, the sequence of many ideas and many critics etc. And so I think it's not from the point of view that maybe ask a question about what fell or some little educational window. Of the 150 things the Minister of Finance has mentioned, first of all, the state has not built enough kindergartens. You might even have some mayors in your ranks, maybe look into the law. The kindergartens are in charge of the municipalities. I don't know how many state preschools there are in this republic. If you want to introduce state kindergartens, maybe, it's a radical change. Then he spoke so flamingly about tax havens. Prague is happy with tax, Prague is a tax haven. Okay, one question. Where's your firm's place? Isn't that in Prague?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u41	Mr Igor Nykl is another party to the debate with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would hate to hear from the ODS, and it was said here, some sentences about godfathers, because what you've done well in recent years is that you've created such a new map of the Czech Republic, we call it a godfather's map. When we look, Western Bohemia - Jurečko, South Bohemia - Dlouhý, Northern Bohemia - Oulický, Novák, Brno - there is even one Member here. North Moravia - Tiny. That's for Wikipedia. And you've done so well. So don't bring up the godparents, because it's a disaster that was the beginning of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u43	Thank you. Before I give another word, I just need to clarify from Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš whether he is applying with priority rights or a factual remark. It's a point of fact. Okay, I'll put you in line. Mr Pavel Plzák is now registered with a point of fact in the first place. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I applied to a factual remark because I was a little irritated by our Minister's designation that he should be some kind of alien. Then I looked at it from the other side, and I thought, "What's behind his work, what he's built, how many people he employs, and feel the conscience of who made it, then we could say, "More aliens like that." He was here several times accused of conflict of interest, and then I always thought to myself, "We all know what Mr. Babiš is doing. We know what his assets are, we know how he's doing, it's transparent. I think it was much worse in recent years that the public contracts were given to companies with completely anonymous owners, and it was in the general percentage of these contracts, and I think you should have picked up the index finger back then and said, "Watch out." But you were lifting other fingers here, I don't want to show them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u45	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Laudát is next in line with the factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u46	Thank you for the floor, I won't be holding up much longer. I congratulate KDU-ČSL and social democracy on such a coalition partner and such a finance minister. I think you'll be dealing with a big dilemma in the fall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u47	Thank you. Another with a point of fact is Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš. Your two minutes, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u48	Thank you. I would just like to explain to Mr Stanjur that money from the Ministry of Education is going to the municipalities of kindergarten. Mr. Chládek and I have just made a deal. We're putting in $200 million extraordinarily. We've written a program to complete primary school capacity, so I'm just an extraterrestrial, because I've discovered that in every county, it's like a picture of how public administration works. It's the RUD, the deal he did, or the deal Kalousek did with the mayor that we're gonna raise the RUD and go with him, so it's leaking out of six places of tax per cent, so they don't really know. And then I found out from 136 chapters. A normal alien would say, I'll put it on a pile and cut off one pie to the edge. No. Our state puts money in every county. So you can imagine what kind of administration it is. Taxes, Mr Stanjur. Last year, I'm gonna pay 87 miles as a natural person. Kroner and my firm 650 miles. Crowns. It happens almost every year. I'm fine. I'm just wondering that since Mr. Best Finance Minister Kalousek has already set up a special unit, he's actually controlling the multinational companies. Firms, yes, like my company, have been checked out. Firms controlled by the first four which pay taxes and pay the most taxes. Why don't they check companies that don't pay taxes that are being investigated by police who are suspicious? You should have done a specialized unit for that. That's one of your other nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u49	Another point of fact is made by Mr Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u50	Thank you. I know it's a popular political discipline when the finance minister says he's not a politician. I ask a question, and he answers something else. I didn't really ask him how much taxes you pay, not your company, not you. I don't think it's any of my business. I asked when you criticized the tax haven in Prague if your company was registered in Prague. That's a simple answer, yes - no. There's no "I've paid so much" answer. Don't answer something I didn't ask. You wanted to compliment yourself on how much taxes you paid, so you did, all right. I don't think it's anything anyone should criticize. But I'm not here to ask individual Members or those who have a business or their friends have a company or their relatives have a firm how many specific companies they have. You started about how the tax office in Prague - tax haven. So I just asked. Just answer, yes - no. You don't have to tell me the numbers. I don't consider it polite to ask such a question. Okay, well, you complimented yourself, but it wasn't my question, so don't tell me to answer if we paid taxes. I really didn't ask because it's not my place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u51	Thank you. Another with a point of fact is Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš. You have your word, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u52	Thank you. I thought you understood, Mr. Stanjur, it came from my speech. My company is based in Prague and is controlled by the specialized department that controls all companies that pay taxes here. And the fact that Prague is happy to tax, I'll take you to visit... Now Mrs. Pudilová came to see me, she is a regular employee of the Financial Office of Prague-Chodov. The old lady takes 17,200. Supposedly, she's supposed to control it, but she's in the system they've got, IDS, so she's been waiting two hours to throw up some paper, and she's not even enough to pay her taxes. She has 600 clients and she has 500 pending requests from all sides. You decimated the authorities. They had to fire people, and now we're gonna hire people, like, 300 or 400, because those people aren't enough to do basic work at all. And that's why Prague is a tax haven, because there's control in some parts every 320 years. And why didn't Mr. Best Finance Minister Kalousek arrange national jurisdiction, like the police or the prosecutor's office? And when some small financial authorities are basically not that busy and they go to check, and some firms complain, every year or every other, and here once for 300, you should have done so, and you could have made sure that the people who work in Ostrava, Moravia, outside of Prague, controlled the Prague companies, which, of course, moved here massively so that they wouldn't pay taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u53	Thank you for keeping time. I have two other Members registered here with a factual remark. The first is Mr Vácha and then Mr Stanjura. I shall ask Mr Vácha for a factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just learned that it takes 300 years to get to check on a company. But then it's interesting that there's an online news journal, there's a month two, he starts criticizing the Minister of Finance, he starts criticizing the ANO movement, and the Minister says at a press conference that he doesn't like it and that he's gonna send financial control to him. And what's not gonna happen! Within a week, within two weeks, financial control is in this diary. So here's some contradiction - 300 years, 14 days, a month. Each of you make your own conclusion about how state power is abused by a new power in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u55	Another point of fact is that of Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u56	Thank you for the reply that the company registered in Prague - however, I will take it from the debate, and today I am going back to the electoral region, and I think there are 21 of us from the Moravian-Silesian Region, so all of you in your regional offices on Monday: People from Ostrava, from Moravia, do not have much to do with these financial offices. He said the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u57	Another with a point of fact is Mr. Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. You have your word, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u58	I don't understand why Mr. Stanjura is lying. Thanks to Mr Korte, I got the paper that I have for C2 in Czech. [[Fun in the hall.]] So I think everyone heard that I didn't say they didn't actually have a job. I'd just like to say something about the Echu, the former Lidové noviny crew. Every time there's a new firm and Minister Kalousek knows, there's a VAT check. That's normal. It's interesting that Mr. Kalousek knew earlier that there was a checkup. I found out afterwards. What a coincidence. And speaking of control over 300 years, I'm talking about corporate tax control. Of course, VAT is often controlled. So we don't confuse concepts with impressions. Try to be exact. And it's not true, I never said I was gonna send somebody to the IRS. It's not even in my jurisdiction. I can't even do that. I said at the press conference that it would be interesting to see how Mr - so-called. The investor can handle it. 'Cause I think I know how much an Internet diary costs. If he has that kind of money. That's all. But we didn't talk about any control. So I'd like you not to lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u59	At this point, I do not register any factual comment, so I have Mr Kalousek, who is registered with the priority right. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u60	Thank you. Come on, this was, like, C3. [[Laughter. Let's hear it.]] However, Minister, let me thank you for a fairly comprehensive answer that has actually explained many. I can only agree with what you said about claims that you do not understand. I fully agree with you there. Otherwise, I dare say, the vast majority of the other sentences were completely irrelevant. Let me just give you two examples that were directly attacking me. The RUD amendment, which I am quite proud of and welcomed by all the mayors in the Czech and Moravian countryside, which significantly improved people's lives in the countryside, was only about municipal budgets. It wasn't about regional budgets at all. Minister Babiš said - the RUD amendment, the deal Kalousek did with the mayors, and then he talked about financing the county. I suggest you don't trust the Minister. I will recommend to the Minister that he have an explanation of what RUD is, what it concerns, what mechanisms are financed by the municipalities and what mechanisms are financed by the regions. It's two completely different cases. The second example concerns the forecast. Of course, we forecasted for a period of political change, and it was clear that there would be a legitimate mandate for a government that did not have an investigation in the programme. So it was also legitimate for the 2014 and 2015 forecast to write a very optimistic, even if not saving the prognosis that at least the spending government would keep it below 3%. But we logically had to assume an increase in the structural deficit. But the government, which took up its mandate legitimately, said "we will save." Which was a great hope for us, who have balanced budgets as a great macroeconomic priority. But simply, colleagues, it doesn't make any sense to say: you didn't save money, you didn't manage it, but you cut the structural deficit, that's just what the Ministry of Finance's official material has to admit, and we're going to save money, and we're going to manage it - and we're going to increase structural deficits. Either one or the other. There's no way both of them are possible. Then it's the same nonsense as the RUD we heard. It just doesn't make sense. And I appeal to your intelligence to agree at least with this contradiction. If we have not spared, and yet we have reduced structural deficits, how can you say you will save if you increase the structural deficits? This is, I'm sorry, the same as if your wife had said to you: "I have spared, for I have bought cheaper sponges for dishes. Oh, and, Pepa, this is where I bought this lovely fur coat, since I'm saving up so nicely." This primitive example reminds me of your rhetoric. And really seriously. We consider the situation serious, since we believe that the large social and political costs incurred to stabilise public budgets should not be thrown out of the window. And I will go back to what Mr Pilný said, and I agree that the country needs some vision, some strategy. And we think he needs at least some long-term or medium-term fiscal strategy. We are in a position to discuss not only the laws of state budgets in this Chamber of Deputies, but also the fiscal compact to which the government has signed up at European Union level. We will also discuss the financial constitution that the government is discussing and the Minister of Finance has presented. I am taking advantage of this opportunity, because we have only said this in public sources so far, although I have offered the Prime Minister a hearing, but so far no offer to negotiate has been made, so I am taking advantage of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, and I am taking advantage of the House of Deputies meeting so that, on behalf of the TOP 09 Club and the starosta, I am making a very formal opposition offer to the Government. And I think that is a helpfulness that has no precedent in the history of modern parliamentaryism from the opposition party. Well, we respect that the political agreements for 2015 on the budget are in such a situation and at such a stage that you will increase the structural deficit compared to the structural deficit of Fischerův's government. We consider this extremely wrong, thrilling and uneconomical, but we just have to take it as a fact. Let's try to agree that since 2016, this structural deficit, which you are planning for 1.8 - that means almost twice the maximum level allowed by the fiscalcompact - will reduce the minimum rate recommended by both the OECD and the European Commission, is 0.5 percent per year. So medium-term strategy - 1.8 - 1.3 - 0.8 - 0.3. [[11.20 hours]] In such a case, the government is in an extremely comfortable situation. While previous governments had to consolidate that they could not count on an increase in GDP, the government is in a situation where it can expect a 2% increase in GDP. One percent is roughly 12 billion. revenue from the state budget, that's 24 to 25 billion. year-on-year growth, which is more than half a percent. So the government doesn't have to save at this minimum required pace, it doesn't have to cut costs at all. It can only fix expenditure, and it will playfully gain half a percent of the annual GDP increase because of the 25 billion. there will be from year to year from the growth of the economy. Of course, I would like a faster pace, but I respect that it will be the slowest possible, i.e. Half a percent a year. Assuming that the government would be willing to go in this minimal way of investigation, i.e. it would save three times slower than we would, but it would still save, provided that I guarantee the votes of all tops 09 Members to support fiscal compact, to support the financial constitution and to support all proposals for state budgets that will be in line with this financial strategy. However much government budget proposals will not fit our priorities, there will need to be more on wages or more on social benefits than we would like, less on science and research than we would like, however much they do not match these priorities, if they match this strategy and this minimum saving rate, you can rely on the support of all our votes, not only on those documents that require a constitutional majority, but also on proposals for state budgets. I have been in politics for 20 years, and there has not yet been such a helpful offer from the opposition party for the sake of some common financial strategy in favour of the Czech Republic, with tolerance to the fact that you can save only three times slower than we have. Please, the government... Or please - I don't have to beg... I offer the government negotiations on this subject, I offer the government a written agreement. What you can't count on is the promotion of increasing structural deficits. Then you can't say you're saving. Either one or the other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u61	I have one point of fact before Mrs Chalánková, who was duly applied for, so I will ask Mr Bendl for a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'll try briefly. Because when I listened to Mr. Vice-President of the Government and put the tabloid populist ballast on the side, there's a lot of contradictions in his words. Before the elections - and some even said here at this point - I will tell the votes about how the state should save, how the state does not invest. It was even said by the Deputy Prime Minister here that there could have been a lot of things built long ago. And that must be from investment funds, not from assets that are operational. But in the same speech, he's telling us that he's going to be hiring civil servants at the Treasury, i.e. in one word: increase the operating expenditure of the State. That's probably what we're going to do. But it's already happened that the state hires other officials. The State Land Office has been hiring 230 new officials since the fall of Nečasův' government. These are tens of millions of crowns that could have been invested in those roads, Prime Minister. Yearly, in quotes, only at the State Land Office. I don't know how much costs they're going to cost after adding up, how many new officials have been accepted into individual departments instead of being invested in investments that you yourself have criticized that they don't exist. I think everyone will be surprised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u63	Thank you for keeping time. I am registering three further factual points at this point, so the first point of fact is Mr Ivan Filip. You have your word. [[To the right, Vojtěch!]] Vojtěch, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u64	Thank you, Mr President. If it's Vojtěch Václav, I think I have my first letter, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u65	Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u66	You see, honourable members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I have heard an offer from the Chairman of the TOP 09 about what a beautiful cooperation would be with the opposition party. And as a representative of the strongest opposition faction here in the Czech Parliament, I have only one concern - that the offer should not be offset by the fact that it will not reveal the very rest that the former finance minister left behind. I really wouldn't like that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u67	Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Ivan Pilný is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u68	Dear colleagues, what we heard a moment ago from Minister Kalousek is a business plan that I saw on the TV show Den D. It is compiled on the basis of the Excel table. It is very hard to predict the development of the economy for the following years. It's a kind of crystal ball divination, and, of course, the numbers about consumption and income have a very significant effect on it. Furthermore, it does not distinguish between consumption and investment. It allows us to fix our consumption, but where will we have the money for the investments? That's what we need to do. Moreover, consumption cannot be fixed. If we look only at the increase in the number of pensioners, the mandatorial expenses will simply increase regardless of our respect for the excelovak table of Minister Kalousek. The next thing I know, my previous speaker here has been talking about it, is the commitments made by the past government. She created black holes that need to be fixed in some way. So we can look at it as a plan that's presented at D-level, but it can't be implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u69	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is Mr Karel Rais, followed by Deputy Prime Minister Babiš and then Mr Kalousek. So, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u70	Thank you. I would like to turn you a bit towards what we are discussing, and that is the proposal of the Czech Republic's State Final Account for 2013. Here's the political prognosis about how nice it's gonna be next and next year, when we get together with the opposition, it's not on the agenda. The state of the state that this government has taken over is on the agenda of the day. And it's clear and it's said here: There's debts, that's very obvious, and there's still demand for the state. The state simply held demand, increased taxes, as has been said here, the right-wing governments raised taxes, each of us was hit by at least 8%, to say the public. And household demand was also sustained. Basically, it's actually taken over in a pretty detachable state. And that's what we're here to discuss. The financial pact will come on the agenda next week, I think. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u71	Thank you. Another point of fact is registered by Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's hard to argue. Mr. Kalousek... Twenty years he's been here. We know what this place looks like, 24 years after the revolution. So I will repeat again, let someone look it up and check that the structural deficit proposed by Minister of Finance Kalousek in April 2013 was half a point higher than the structural deficit proposed by us for 2015. So he suggested much more. And, of course, Mr. Kalousek is mocking us. He says he's helpful. But he knows it's not real. Because if we were to accept the structural deficit conditions under the fiscal pact, we would have to go to a deficit somewhere in the order of about 60 billion, so we would have to give all state employees half-pay. It's just a gesture. It's a mockery. It's not serious, and I'm not willing to discuss it here anymore, because it's really a debate about nothing, demagogy and lies. To Mr. Bendl. It is strange that there are still people in Parliament who privatized Central Bohemia hospitals who were handing out the Classa through the money washing machine of the Comunic, the criminally prosecuted Mr. Savov on the run in London. They were all Mr. Bendl's partners. It's too bad you didn't save money on IT, on ZIF and the Classes, hundreds of millions that went somewhere through some channels. So I really admire these gentlemen that they actually had the audacity to run again and they're here between us. If these people are among us in parliament, we will never move anywhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u73	Another point of fact is made by Mr Kalousek. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u74	That's where they were missing: that's why they all need to be shot. No, seriously. I meant the offer without any ulterior motives, and it's the most serious and softest offer that could have been made. There's no demagogy in this. I quote only the Ministry of Finance's materials, OECD recommendations and recommendations from the European Commission. If we cannot reduce the structural deficit in the slowest way recommended by 0.5 per cent, it is quite a shame. It's your right, but then he can't say you want to save money, because then you're gonna put it in a situation where Kalousek doesn't come up with any kind of helpful offer, but international institutions come in and say, "If you want to help, it's a percentage a year." Excelovská table without any discussion. There were countries that had to go through this, and you're going down a path that goes back to that station after we've put it together with huge costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u75	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Petr Bendl is next in line with the factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u76	Thank you for the floor. I understand, Mr Vice-President of the Government, by means of the President, that you are uncomfortable hearing that you are criticising that the State has no ability to invest in roads, but you are recruiting officials yourself, thereby reducing your ability to invest in roads. Instead of narrowing down the state administration and rather seeking solutions that will lead to effective government, you will recruit them and recruit them. I told you the State Land Office picked up about 230 new officials. I know you are uncomfortable, and so you point out the privatisation of Central Bohemia hospitals, for which the first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic voted, by the way. I'm just reminding you. So I'm not the only one here who voted in favour. Ad 1. Ad 2. Yes, it was the agreement of the KDU-ČSL coalition, the ODS, and I suspect the Independents who voted for it. Hospitals that at the time showed loss and the Central Bohemia Region subsidized them 100 miles. Crowns per year, today they run in black numbers, they exist, they don't strike. They don't have it easy, but the government saved 100 miles. Kroner, Vice-President of the Government!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u77	Thank you. The next entry is with the factual remark of Mr Votava. Premier Bohuslav Sobotka prefers the right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u78	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not initially want to be involved in this debate, we are discussing the draft State Final Account. I would very much like to see the Chamber of Deputies getting to the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act today, because this is a standard for which 2 million pensioners are no doubt waiting in the Czech Republic, and it is one of the corrections to the mistakes that have happened here in recent years. I hope we can get to that standard again. But I really must respond to what Mr Bendl said here about the fact that during the past governments, understand Nečasův' government, officials were being released, and now under this new Czech government, officials are being accepted. So let's see what happened with the firing of officials. When they transferred competences in the area of social welfare payments from municipalities to labour offices, what happened. Officials have been released. Excellent, excellent results. Mr. Drábek and Mr. Šiška claimed that the authorities could do it perfectly and that people didn't need it at all, so the seats were cancelled, people were released. We saw exactly how the authorities did it. And now I don't want to talk about the fact that the information system collapsed, that applications were put in boxes and counted manually, but I want to talk about what happened in the housing benefit business. After all, it is clear that the growth of social housing, businesses with undignified housing, where 10, 15 people live in one room, all receive social welfare benefits for housing, so this business started when your reform transferred benefits from municipalities to employment offices and you cut off people who were supposed to control these things in the field. They're not there today. And I'm not surprised at the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that she's coming up with a proposal to strengthen the employment authorities because you've cut people off who were supposed to control the abuse of social benefits. And that's cynicism! Because you, on the one hand, have liquidated the control of the abuse of social benefits and, on the other hand, you are accusing the system of allowing the abuse of social benefits. This is the absolute hypocrisy you've shown here. A specific example. Labour offices, your government, Minister Drábek of TOP 09, Deputy Šiška convicted of corruption or extortion in connection with information systems! This was their project! And the second example you mentioned here, the State Land Office. This is also a huge hypocrisy on your part, but unbelievable! You are here with one voice - with one voice at the time of the criminally prosecuted member of the Pekárek - to enforce church restitution. It must have been clear to you that tens of thousands of items that the churches would require from the State Land Office would have to be administered. I mean, it was obvious when you passed the law. Don't tell me you guys were so stupid that your subordinates didn't tell you that things would need to be administered - tens of thousands of requests for the release of church property. And what did you do? You've merged two institutions. The State Land Office, the SAO, was established, and you fired several hundred of their qualified employees. You released several hundred qualified people on the eve of the adoption of the law on religious restitution, at a time when it was clear what you wanted to approve, that you would approve it at any cost, regardless of any opposition. You fired several hundred people, and then you let it go. The Bureau is running out of legal deadlines today. Item number 20 - settlement with churches, proposal to extend legal terms. The Bureau can't make it. And I say, "Is it okay that he doesn't keep his deadlines?" That instead of the restitution being settled by the middle of this year, they might still be settled in 2015? Is it okay that the state violates its own laws that it has laid down? This was your plan? Or was the plan different and was that if the officials didn't prosecute it, they wouldn't have a chance to claim all the archives, all the evidence, everything that proves the legitimacy of the applications, they would just run the applications through the office without anyone checking them because those people wouldn't be there? You may have released them on purpose. You deliberately released them to facilitate the way of issuing property without being properly investigated. A second concrete example of how you saved so-called by releasing people from the office, which was subsequently subject to an agenda as a result of your law. [[11.40 hours]] And the third particular example. He's already been mentioned here today, and I'm just going to mention him very briefly, and that's the financial authorities. That's where you've been saving up. When I spoke to those people from the financial authorities over the years and I asked, "Yes, and where are these people being released? ' Where do they cut off your financial offices? That's how I got one answer: check! When I talked to the supervisor, he said, "Look, I had six people in the control department here." Now Mr. Finance Minister Kalousek has taken austerity measures, and I have half of those people left! I had to fire half of it without reducing my number of controlled subjects. They just crossed people out at the control wards just because it was the easiest thing to do. And so the financial authorities reduced the number of checks. That's the way the so-called thing went down here. redundancies, so-called reducing the number of employees. Please don't repeat these things here again! It is clear how these things took place, what disastrous consequences they had. It's not just us that remembers the millions of people in this country who have been confronted with blackouts in the functioning of the state under your rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u79	I have four factual points here. With the first factual remark, I will ask Mr Votava to speak. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think we've heard a lot here. As rapporteur, I am putting forward a proposal for you to vote on the end of the debate and to address the resolution in a procedural manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u81	So, as I have also consulted Vice-President Filip, it is not possible to vote on termination at this point. We must let the general debate run its course. This item is not to be voted on. For this reason, we will continue with those who are registered with factual remarks. The first is Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. [[He doesn't want to.]] No? In that case, Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u82	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I don't know how much you listened to the debate. But your Deputy Prime Minister here said he was ready to hire other officials and strengthen the Treasury. And when I was talking about the State Land Office, of course, I didn't expect the Nečasův administration to fall, and I was prepared with the number of officials that the State Land Office had to handle the situation. My experience is as follows. When I was the governor, they said to me, "You can't cancel the 12 authorities that run the roads, you can't do that." This is gonna be a disaster! This is going to be absolutely crazy, and so the District Department of Road Administration and Maintenance, which was 12 in the county, tried to block things that weren't practical in this way. At the end of the day, there are four directorates, and there hasn't been a disaster. But everyone said, "That's gonna be awful! Hospital, that's a classic example here too. They told me, what happens in this country when ten hospitals are privatized, where will these people go? What's going to come out of all this? This is gonna be a disaster! It cost us as a region 100 million crowns a year on subsidies, the hospitals continue to function and just go on with the carriage of white around the black rocks! The Regional Authority in my line of work when we were in the middle of one parliamentary term, so we said to ourselves: no, we must reduce the number of officials! I've also heard from inside the office how this isn't going to work, how terrible it's gonna be, what's gonna happen! Finally, we took down the number of regional officials from 700 to 630 or as many as it was. That's just not true. It's all about the will and ability to prove it or not. We're either looking for ways or reasons, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u83	Thank you for your time, and I will ask Mr Laudát with his factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have responded correctly here to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and you have heard what has followed. If the Minister of Finance is calling you here, check it out. I think he's the one who showed the right place to check the qualifications, and with so many years of experience, there's no one here. But what is the reality, Prime Minister? Yesterday there was a budget committee, approved the SAO's budget for the second attempt. There's been a pull between the Ministry of Finance and the president of the SAO. So that you should know, even your fellow Members, the Coalition Members, killed my accompanying resolution, in which I expressed concern that the SAO will not perform the functions we want it to perform. He remained practically on his own, and finally nodded to the fact that this is a consensual decision, so here you will give tens or hundreds of officials, but where necessary, there is a consensus that we want to give them more power after the SAO, we want to give them powers. So you're letting these institutions live on the brink. The same thing happened to the Ombudsman's budget and others. Undignified thugs. Before you put hundreds of thousands or units of millions in, you didn't put them there, and here you want to say about transparency, about efficiency. No way. At this point, the Treasury doesn't rule out efficiency. Ask your representatives and the President what has been going on in the budget committee for several times in the matter of the Ministry of Finance's submissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another point of fact is made by Mr Igor Nykl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u86	Thank you for the floor. Through you, I would like to ask Mr Bendl not to talk about Central Bohemia hospitals here, because Central Bohemia hospitals are listed in the European report on corruption as a symbol of what it should not look like in health care. I would also like to point out that this is precisely one of the reasons why contracts with hospitals need to be spread out, as it seems, because you, Mr President through Mr President, with your friend Cardinal Richelie mentioned in the report, have made it possible to obtain beautiful above-standard contracts, and therefore you are talking about black numbers! It's not an art of managing health care like that. That's what's gonna happen if the contracts get out. We'll see where your friends, what they've touched, and that's why it seems to be working. But it can't be like that. Thank you. . [[Applause from the YES benches]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u87	Thank you, too. In addition, Mr Laudát is registered with a factual remark. After that, Mr Bendl. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u88	I just want to clarify, because the chairman of the Committee on Budgets believes that perhaps he is competent to investigate, in no way please. Next door, neighbor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u89	Thank you and I will ask Mr Petr Bendl with his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u90	I'm just being very friendly. I didn't start it. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Your chairman started it, so don't complain about the subject here! Because I didn't bring him here. To ad 1. And ad 2. Well, the report was written by a man who's willing to do a nude stand in the square for money wherever you ask, and it's not an official document of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u91	Thank you and one more point of fact, Mr Nykl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u92	Thank you for the floor. Through you, the President, I do not know where Mr Bendl says that this is not an official report. It is the official report of the European Commission's European Study on Corruption. It has 333 pages and page 85 to 89 is dedicated to Hořovice and so on, where you are appointed together with Cardinal Richelie of Czech Health in person. I don't think they're making it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u93	At this point, I do not see any factual point and I am very happy to pass on the floor to Mrs Chalánková, duly signed up for the debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I ran fast and maybe I'll be quick as if it were factual, but I'm properly logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u95	You're duly logged in. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u96	If you don't mind, I would first respond to a few things that have been said here. I am also, of course, dissatisfied with the way in which the business with poverty and the refinancing of residential hotels is carried out. However, those who live in hostels make up only a small part of those who receive extras, contributions and housing supplements. It is clear that this matter must be dealt with very forcefully and very hard. However, we need to realise that most of these people live outside the hostel and we are growing the number of beneficiaries of these housing benefits, while also increasing the coefficients that increase the funds that go into this area. So it's not just abuse. housing supplements, which is a repulsive phenomenon and must change. An example of such a possible solution is the Senate proposal, which we have already approved at first reading and is actually written in the corresponding text, which has already been prepared in the previous Chamber of Deputies as a parliamentary proposal. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] However, I would like to point out to the coalition that the payment of these housing benefits has also been enacted for only 84 months for a period of 10 years, and these months are running and ticking like a time bomb, so that the fundamental law on social housing can also be prepared here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u97	I apologize, madam, but I will ask our colleagues to keep the noise down in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u98	But I'll add to my voice. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - Okay. Please.]] Then I would very much like to draw attention to the fact that in the SAO's report, the adoption of legislative measures to improve tax collection by the previous government was commendably mentioned. I will not fully list them here, they are certainly available in this report by the SAO. We also took note of the discussion of the audit conclusion, which focused on the Treasury project, where it was stated that this project fulfilled the expectations put into it and was signed by the Minister of Finance Babiš. That's what it was. And now I'd just like to talk a little bit about what's gonna happen next. In the forecast, the Social Democrats have advocated a lot of increased compulsory spending of some 20 million in the future. Crowns. On the other hand, they do not have sufficient revenue. They're counting on extra income of 30 billion. More than 15 billion. to obtain from the dividends of ČEZ, 6 billion. from accumulated profits from state forests, 2 billion. From the State Institute for Drug Control, almost 2 billion. they are to come from the state of Budvar - and it is important to realize that the mandatorial expenses will be repeated every year, while these extraordinary revenues will not be repeated every year. Furthermore, we can expect the adjustment of the debt brake when we start reacting when the budget deficit exceeds 55 percent of GDP, if I say so technically correctly. Isn't that right? [[To the messenger. Votav.]] You won't, I guess. And here, theoretically, I'm going to present an idea of what a budget would look like that would be balanced. Revenue equals expenditure. And that's the truth that we should look into our eyes. [[Notes from the rapporteur's post.]] It's clever! I think that this is how each state should manage, cut off the part that it would devote to defending its country, and then look at the budget for how much it can spend on investment and how much it will spend on pensions. That is the truth of this day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u99	Thank you, Madame. Since I no longer see anyone registered with a factual remark or duly entered in the debate, I ask whether this is the case, in which case I will ask for final words. [[yes]] I'll ask Mr. President of the SAO Miloslav Kala to take the final floor. [[Yes.]] Mr. President, final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, in the final words, I really want to thank you for having a really thorough discussion of our report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u101	I would also like to ask whether Mr Votava will take the final floor. No. And I want to ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance - he is also not taking the final floor. In that case, I will conclude the general debate and we will proceed to the debate in detail. At this point, I am not registering anyone enrolled in a detailed debate, so I am asking whether this is the case. That's right. In that case, I will conclude a detailed debate and we will go to the vote. I ask whether the Member will take the final floor before voting on the proposals. [[Yes.]] You will read the motion for a resolution. Okay. So I ask you to read the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u102	Thank you for the floor. The discussion was really above-standard, unprecedented. I will inform you of the motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2013, which shows the revenue, expenditure and deficit for the state budget in 2013, as stated, the results of the budgetary management of local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions in the Czech Republic for 2013, and the state financial assets of the Czech Republic as at 31 December 2013, as well as information on the main results of the management of the state funds of the Czech Republic for 2013 according to the data provided in the F draft final account, for further information on the state guarantee status and development of the state guarantees provided in the D draft final account, for further information on the stocks of the funds of the state's organisational units referred to in the F draft State Final Account, as well as information on the privatisation procedure and on the status and use of funds held in the 2013 special accounts pursuant to Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund. Second, it agrees to settle the deficit of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2013 by financing items as stated. So much for a motion for a resolution. We can vote on him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u103	Okay. The resolution has been read. Since there's been a very long discussion, I'm going to sign you all out first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u104	I'm still sorry, Mr. Vice-President. There is still a motion for an accompanying resolution, but we would vote then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u105	That's right. If there is no objection to the way in which this vote is proposed, we shall vote as it has been said. That is, at this point, I am opening the vote on the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, as read here. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. It's vote 79. Who's against it? I'm done with vote 79. 151 Members are present in the hall, 122 for the proposal, against none. This motion for a resolution has been adopted. And now I would like to ask you for an accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u106	An accompanying resolution based on the resolution of the Security Committee, if I am not mistaken. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - Yes, that's right.]] I will read it: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to maintain, at least, the level of expenditure of the approved budget for 2014 in the preparation of the draft State budget for 2015 and the medium-term outlook for 2016 and 2017 for the Security Information Service and to address the possibilities of financing the construction of the data centre."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-13-ps2013-010-04-003-101.u107	I thank and initiate this vote on the accompanying resolution and ask who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's the number 80 vote. I'm ending this vote. 151 Members are present in the Chamber, 121 Members were opposed to none for the accompanying resolution. The accompanying resolution was also adopted. This concludes the discussion of this point and opens the discussion of the point
