ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 70/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicinal Products), as amended /German Press 259/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. I ask that, under the authority of the Government, the Minister of Health take the floor and tell us the press. After that, the rapporteur, appointed by Mr Pavel Volčík, will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a government bill amending the law on medicines. The aim of the bill is to maintain the existing possibility of prescribing medicinal products for a paper recipe. This option should have been abolished on the basis of the previous amendment to the Act on Medicines on 1 January 2015 and it should have been possible to prescribe medicines only for electronic prescription. The proposed proposal only cancels the transition to a mandatory printed electronic transcription. Thus, even after this proposal has been adopted, the possibility of the doctor, in agreement with the patient, to make use of the existing voluntary electronic prescription will be maintained. The reason we are taking this step is because we believe that such a significant intervention in the way doctors work, such as mandatory electronic transcription, is not sufficiently balanced by its benefits. The current legislation of electronic transcription, which in principle does not change in relation to the transition to the compulsory electronic method of prescription of drugs, allows, in simple terms, only the issuing of an electronic prescription on the doctor's side, the transfer of the code to the patient, and the issue of a prescription in the pharmacy based on the code submitted. The State Institute for Drug Control manages, within the framework of the system of electronic transcription of the so-called central storage of e-recepts, where data on such prescribed medicinal products are contained, but any further use of this data would mean complex legislative change and, of course, financial costs. In addition, it should be noted that most of these data are already being collected by health insurance companies for public health insurance purposes. It is therefore not meaningful for us to continue to waste funds in this regard for the development of that system. Over the past 12 months, approximately one million recipes have been issued through the central repository of electronic recipes, of which only 650 thousand recipes have been issued in pharmacies through the central repository. Around 70 million recipes are issued annually in the Czech Republic. At present, only a fraction of all the recipes issued are implemented through the central repository. It is so obvious that in practice this method of prescription is not preferred and therefore not considered to be significantly beneficial. As regards the costs that the application of the recipes would require, it is necessary to note that the expansion of the central repository's capacity to accommodate the 70 million recipes mentioned above per year would require an investment of between CZK 120 million and CZK 150 million. In addition to expenses on the part of the SÚKL, the introduction of a printed electronic transcript also represents costs on the part of health service providers who do not yet communicate with the central repository of electronic recipes. Currently, even after the abolition of this obligation, it would continue to be in force that cannabis-containing medicinal products can only be prescribed for an electronic prescription. The proposal in this regard does not in any way restrict the method of prescription and dispensing of cannabis. I would also like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to the government bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please Mr Volčík, who is the rapporteur for this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister has very detailed and pregnantly introduced the amendment to the Act, which proposes maintaining the existing alternative possibility of prescribing medicinal products. This means maintaining the ability to prescribe medicinal products in paper form, as we all know them, that is, on recipes and in electronic form. It is essentially the maintenance of the existing legal status to be changed from 1 January 2015, so that from this date it would be possible to prescribe medicinal products only in electronic form. However, such a model of transcription would constitute an existential threat to the performance of practice of approximately 20 percent of doctors who ordinate without access to a fast and secure internet connection. These are not large establishments such as hospitals or large police facilities, but rather doctors practicing in remote regions where the availability of health services is sometimes problematic. The administrative burden associated with the electronic crisis may lead to the closure of many of them. The proposed legislation, which has been mentioned here, does not prohibit electronic transcription, therefore it can continue to be used on the basis of an agreement with the patient, as has been said, but leaves it solely for medicinal preparation with restrictions, that is to say, pursuant to § 39 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c) and for hemp preparations. The proposal submitted, as it was submitted, is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Since the provisions of the Act on Medicines introducing mandatory electronic prescription will take effect on 1 January 2015, the proposed Act should take effect in parallel to that date. Therefore, the proposal mentioned: The scope of the proposed legislation is limited to a single provision of the Act on Medicines, Section 80, which regulates solely the obligation to prescribe medicinal products electronically or with the possibility of prescribing medical regulations in paper form. In the original discussion of the bill, the proposer suggested that the House should be able to agree with it in the first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 95 Coll. on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have here first Mr Laudát's application, and I have an idea what he wants to tell us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, you don't know, I told you. So, on behalf of two TOP 09 MPs and ODS, I'm vetoing the regime under Section 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u7	Yes, I register the objection, cannot continue the hearing under Section 90 and the law will pass the standard procedure. In the general debate, Mr Skalický is also enrolled and Mrs Soňa Marková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u8	Thank you. Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, as has already been said by the Minister and the rapporteur, the proposal that you have before you really abolishes the obligation to use the electronic recipe on the surface, actually prolongs its volunteering, its use on the basis of an agreement with the patient. The reasons given in the explanatory memorandum are a little smiling. Because 20 percent of doctors who don't have computer technology when we have 40,000 doctors, so 8,000 that they don't own computer technology, are a bit of a non-standard number. And I can imagine that there are, of course, far fewer doctors, although there are exceptions, especially in higher age groups. However, even these doctors must communicate with health insurance companies when billing using computer technology. I would briefly recapitulate here, especially for colleagues who were not in the previous Chamber of Deputies, why from 1. 1. 2015 we have designed and tried to make the electronic recipe use across the board, or if you want it to be mandatory. [[17.10 hours]] In 2007 the Central repository of electronic recipes was approved, which was to start building the SÚKL. With effect from 1. 1. 2009 was supposed to work and these electronic recipes were really to be used on that voluntary basis or on a voluntary basis, because there was an assumption of some start-up curve, time to build up this repository and be able to gradually test it. It is true that from 2009 almost to the present, despite the approval of the obligation, electronic recipes as such are actually used at least, as the Minister said. So the effect that was to bring about gradually their use is not all or is minimal. In 2012, when we approved the draft law on the therapeutic use of cannabis, which was strictly required by the Police of the Czech Republic, and after an analysis of how the electronic recipe is used in the ordinary medical public, we proposed and agreed to extend the starting curve of compulsory use of the electronic recipe and should be used on a flat screen basis from January 2015. I would just like to say that in December 2012, when this proposal was approved by the then House, on the basis of the arguments that we have gathered, 141 Members from 153 who were present voted, i.e. on a professional and factual basis, there was no reason that this fact should not be agreed, with the fact that two years, 2013 and 2014, were considered sufficient time for all institutions, including SÚKL and individual health establishments to prepare for this. I would like to emphasise here one fact that has been left out in some way, that at any moment, even in our proposal, which should apply since January 2015, the possibility of a paper form of the recipe has always been preserved. This means that even if the electronic recipe was required to be mandatory, there was always an alternative to paper form, with the Ministry of Health defining the situations where it is possible to use a paper recipe. Now I'm going to say at an exaggeration, if the Minister decides that the paper recipe will be used by doctors over 70 years of age or in the mountains from an altitude of 1,000 or 900 meters, because there is no Internet available, it is simply possible to do so even in the situation that we have proposed. In the application of the electronic recipe, we still see the positives that are worth trying to make real use of this recipe throughout the health sector. These benefits relate to patients, doctors and health establishments, health insurance companies and pharmacies themselves. I would like to give you a few examples where we really think that this is meaningful. As far as patients and doctors are concerned, it is an opportunity to obtain a complete medical record of the patient, in real time, actually with a history of records. This means that a doctor who prescribes any medicinal product gets to history and sees what the patient is taking, which is just not possible at the moment and is not real. First, this will reduce duplication and unnecessary prescription of a number of medicinal products, where one doctor does not know what the other prescribes, and secondly, the risk of drug interactions which clearly lead to a number of health complications, because it is simply not possible without this complete drug record to affect all these drug interactions. The same applies, of course, to doctors and medical devices who prescribe these medicines. Another important issue is that the possibility of counterfeits will be dramatically reduced, because it is not a problem to forge - and it is still happening - medical regulations. If the central repository offers you a unique numerical series, this risk will naturally decrease significantly. There are two advantages to health insurance companies. Firstly, they will receive recipes in electronic form in virtually real time, or not until after they are rewritten in pharmacies, and in particular will reduce administrative demands for them. And by reducing the number of prescribed medications, when duplicates are reduced, the cost of health insurance will fall, because health insurance companies will simply pay fewer medicines to be given - which could, of course, be of interest to the Minister of Finance. The pharmacies will be saved by me. time for manual rewriting of the recipe into electronic form. It has already been said that it is about 70 miles. recipes are processed annually in paper form, so administration with them is quite clearly demanding. Pharmacists have calculated that their transcription into digitized or electronic form represents approximately 330 miles at some time. CZK per year if we take the working hours of the people who rewrite. And what is essential and important is that drugs, if prescribed a lot of them, which are not used entirely, which proexpirate in patients at home, were disposed of in 2012 - i.e. those who have paid and not used - about 550 tons, ladies and gentlemen. And that's worth something. The amount of medicines that are actually discarded in this way represents the amount expressed in crowns from two to four billion. Of course, the electronic recipe does not solve everything, but it can significantly reduce the number of duplicates and, by extension, drug interactions. The Czech Republic, if it really resigned from the possibility of introducing an electronic recipe, will be almost the only country in the area of Central and Eastern Europe that would not use this option. From March of this year, countries such as Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Romania, all implemented or will implement a printed or mandatory electronic recipe, with a certain exception, of course. So I believe that the benefits that will be reflected in the possibility of affecting citizens' health through the reduction of drug interactions and preventing drug complications that exist and are, after saving in drug policy, where fewer drugs are prescribed and duplicates are avoided, which is also reflected in health insurance payments, it is simply worth the electronic recipe in some time to have a printed or, if you want, mandatory. On the other hand, I know that the central repository of electronic recipes and SÚKL does not yet complete the entire infrastructure and is not ready to go 70 miles. recipes. [[17.20 hours]] That is why I believe, and I also wanted to ask the Minister to consider the possibility of deferring the effectiveness of the law by two or three years, but to maintain the possibility of using electronic recipes across the board. Because if we eliminate this possibility today, let's say, or leave it on a voluntary basis, we will never, ever, ever, ever, ever return to that possibility in real time, and we will try again in five, ten, fifteen years. Because it has become quite clear that over the past five or seven years, a voluntary base just doesn't work. And I'm sure the benefits are just worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u9	I will now give the floor to Mr Šarapatek, who wants to comment on the vote that has taken place. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just like to announce that I voted against rejection, and I'm high on rejection. So I'd like to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u11	Yes, it's the 27th vote. This is given only for the screen recording, so there is no request to challenge the vote. Thank you. Mr Pavel Antonín has a point of fact, so he will have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, from a technical point of view, it is quite clear to me that electronic recipes must be made sooner or later. It's clear and understandable. Unfortunately, after 1989, most private health establishments were created both by practitioners and specialists and pediatricians and dentists. If you do the math, it's been about a quarter of a century since then, and the lifetime of these ambulances is at that stage of rotation. That generation is growing up to be handing over the practice right now. And I have to say, I really do have a colleague who apologized to the insurance company that she couldn't hand over a dose this summer because her son is at camp and she herself isn't able to make it for the insurance company. So there's definitely a group of doctors like that. It is a pity that we missed the situation in the last parliamentary term when laws were being introduced, when these health establishments were re-registered, and at this time it was the perfect time to make it possible that new medical devices could have just followed up on electronic recipes in those contracts. And we've really missed this unique moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u13	And now, with the proper application by Mrs Soňa Marková. Mr. Mr. Štětina will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u14	Have a nice day, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to make a very brief comment on the bill that we now have before us. It is a proposal from the Ministry of Health, which is just about to amend Act 378 on pharmaceuticals. The adjustment contained in this material is only marginal in scope, it is the removal of the obligation of electronic transcription, which would otherwise take effect exactly 1. 1. 2015. The Minister presents this material to us, as has recently become his custom, along with the request for consent already in the first reading and with the justification that the date 1. 1. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). We often hear that one of the factors that makes treatment more expensive is the rapid development of expensive modern technologies and treatments. It should also be noted, however, that it is precisely the greater use of communication information technology and resources that shows a great deal of potential savings in public health insurance money. After all, here I would claim what has been said here by my previous speaker, Dr. Skalický. From this point of view, the electronic recipe project certainly went in the right direction. Now we have material on the table that we leave to the current state. Those who want to issue electronic regulations and prepare for it can. Those who don't want to aren't gonna change anything for them. The material says that the practice is not ready. However, it does not say anything about why it is not ready. Was there a mistake on the part of public institutions to create backgrounds? Was there a mistake on the part of providers who did not want or could not prepare for many reasons? And most importantly, in what direction will the electronization of our health care be moving further? It is therefore a good thing that the law will not be negotiated pursuant to Section 90, because it is more reasonable, in my view, to deprive such an amendment, which would only postpone this obligation for a year or two, but not completely reject it. In my opinion, the Ministry should not merely create normative orders or take account of such creation, but should create conditions for the entire development of our health care. And I think that this is the task of the Ministry of Health and that it will be better served than it has been so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u15	Mr. Jiří Štětina has the floor and Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u16	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr President, Your Honor. On the one hand, I have it very simple, because what I have to say here, colleagues have said the same thing in front of me. Moreover, I have already apologised to the Minister of Health that I will not please him and will not vote in favour of this proposal. But it's polite to say it in advance. However, I will also make a very brief statement on this. Basically, the proposed draft law excludes the electronic prescription of medicines and proposes maintaining the existing method of prescription of medicines, a pencil for paper. The reason for maintaining the current state of affairs is that approximately 20 per cent of prescribers are not yet equipped with appropriate computer technology, which would in practice be impossible for those doctors to prescribe medicinal products and medicines for their patients from 1 January 2015. For me, however, the argument that 20 percent of doctors don't have a computer and can't work with it is completely indefensible. As far as I know, the outpatient health sector has been privatized for more than 20 years, and over that time colleagues have been able to earn money on computers and also learn how to work with them. At my high age, I too had to learn to use PC elementaryly and control programs in the hospital where I work. I am convinced that without the electronisation of health care, no reform can be implemented, and even no minor change for the better. For example, an electronic medical history that can be used by a doctor, even if a patient who is not in his filing cabinet comes in, of course, paper. As well as unnecessary repeated examinations, prescription medications and all duplications to multiplicity. It is only about maintaining the status quo, preserving the current system of opaque funding for health care, including health professionals in general. [[unintelligible]] I would just like to conclude by pointing out that health care is neither left nor right and should not be populist. As I said at the outset, I cannot support this proposal and I think that what has been said here before me, both my colleague Marková and my colleague Skalický, through Mr President, if we were able to give such an amendment, which will postpone the effectiveness of this proposal by two to three years, the wolf can eat and the goat will remain whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u17	Thank you, Mr Štětin. I now have the application for an electronic Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Then Mr. Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u18	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my dear colleagues, I apologise in advance because a number of arguments that I will mention have already been raised by colleagues, but I would also like to make a brief statement on this issue, which, in my view, is very important for the health sector. I would like to begin by saying that I welcome the proposed amendment and support it for myself. But what is not entirely positive for me is the facts that lead to this amendment. The reasoned report states that approximately 20 percent of prescribers do not have the necessary IT equipment and, as has already been said here, maybe some computer knowledge. I know from medical practice that this is really true, and if we are moving in regions, it has already been said here, we have a generation of retired doctors who are actually working very limitedly with IT technologies so far, and maybe it is not so much a matter of funding that they would not want to invest in the acquisition of IT technologies, but either they don't want to, or maybe they don't even have the strength to learn these new technologies anymore. However, I would like to mention one more reason missing from the explanatory memorandum, and I do not want to touch either the Minister of Health or the Ministry of Health. But if we want to be correct, it must be said that the problems are not only on the part of medical devices, i.e. on the part of doctors, but that the problems are also on the side of the central register of electronic recipes. Recently, this issue has been discussed quite widely in the professional public and in various media, and although the percentage of prescribed recipes for electronic recipes is constantly increasing, these are still relatively low numbers. And it should be said that if communication between the central register of electronic recipes and operators of medical devices does not improve, this system cannot be fully started. I'm afraid jumping, strict regulation of electronic transcription would lead our health care to dangerous chaos. I'm sorry to have to say this, but I think it's important. Despite this mentioned, I would like to ask and appeal to the Ministry of Health to continue the project of electronization of recipes and not only recipes, but also medical documentation. I consider this an important step forward, and there have been fundamental reasons mentioned here. One of them is economic reasons. Polypragmasia in Czech health care is a huge problem. A colleague of Skalický mentioned it here. A colleague of Štětina mentioned it here. We are indeed a state where we meet patients who take 10 to 15 types of medicines daily, many of whom have major antagonistic effects that are very dangerous to those patients. But in addition, it brings a huge economic downturn, and I am convinced that if we manage an electronization project of recipes to a successful end, this means that communication on both sides will work, that it will bring us a great economic profit. But in addition, it will bring us much more safety for our patients, and that should be our first concern. So I say yes for myself, the electronization of recipes, but at the moment the system is not well prepared, it does not work either on the operator side or on the SÚKL side, which manages the central register of electronic recipes, and if we run strictly the project of electronic recipes from 1. 1. 2015, I am convinced that our health care and especially our patients would take it away, and we cannot afford that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u19	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Mr Leoš Heger will now take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers and previous speakers have said everything that is relevant, so allow me to make very few comments on this issue. First of all, I would like to say that the clear position of European Union officials has always been such that it is one of the measures that highly affects health systems where the measure has been implemented. I therefore welcome the debate, which is quite helpful to the fact that the law does not definitively withdraw the electronic recipe and that there is further discussion of possible future developments. I'm sure there'll be an opportunity for that on the Health Committee. Of course, there is no doubt that the problems with IT systems that have affected medicine make it particularly clear that all electronisation and all projects in the area of digitalisation of information are perceived with a degree of suspicion. But let's just remember that the time we live in is characterised by a huge degree of logistics development and a huge degree of banking services development, and both of these spheres are based on huge computing systems that work and without which these spheres could not be nearly as powerful as they serve us today. Of course, health benefits are obvious and conditions need to be further prepared for them. I think that although it is true that the developments in recent months and at least a year have not been too favourable for the system to be launched since 2015, but they are not obstacles that would be insurmountable forever. The last thing I would like to say is that one of the great enemies of introducing an electronic recipe was the people from the management of the Czech Medical Chamber. I am sorry as a doctor, I apologize to all doctors present here, who may also be affected, but the pressures that were against the introduction really did not make the Czech Medical Chamber a great decoration, and the current activation of some people who, in turn, revolve like good lobbyists about the electronic recipe being pushed aside was obvious. It's a shame. But we have a historical precedent here. Franklin Delano Roosevelt, when he was trying to reform American health care, at a time when she was our prime minister, ran into America's medical association as the biggest opponent. Unfortunately, although we all know that without doctors, we cannot cultivate our system and that it has the greatest potential for it, then on the other hand, the needs of the system as a whole, the needs of its effectiveness, economy and needs of patients that are quite obvious here. And the 20 percent of the doctors that have been mentioned here repeatedly, that they don't have computers, they've been going through that a few years ago, and every time I've talked about it with the relevant groups, people have been laughing and saying, well, somehow we have to stop you politicians. And they laughed at it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u21	I thank Mr Heger. Mr Igor Nykl, now with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u22	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I would stand up for the Czech Medical Chamber a little, because electronization in health care is certainly a nice concept, but we know how we treated the term and what it did in electronization in our health care. We have an IZIP project that we're told was envious of the whole of Europe, and we know that we're dealing with it now that it's minus 2.2 billion, and we still can't get out of this project. So I take it very seriously when I say electronization. Unfortunately, it may not be as optimal in Czech health care as it might seem. But, of course, electronization is the way of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u23	I thank Mr Nykl. Who else? Mr Heger's point of fact, of course. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u24	Thank you. I am sorry, my party colleagues and I are calling not to speak, but I still have to respond to my colleague Nykl through Mr President. On top of that IZIP, I'd just add that about six weeks ago, a police investigation was stopped, and the case was put on ice. So unfortunately, we live in a country of paradoxes because the general view was as presented here by Mr Nykl. But in spite of all this, we need to take further care of the electronization and its further rational use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u25	Thank you. I'm asking if there's anyone else for the debate, because all the applications are exhausted. In the debate, the rapporteur. Mr. Volčík, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to propose a reduction in the time to negotiate to 50 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u27	For 50 days, or ten days shorter. Okay. Anyone else in the debate? If not, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Mr. Secretary? Yes. I ask Minister Němeček to take his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for a very rational and correct debate on this point, which I believe is led by very good intentions. I dare to be a little skeptical about how it was said here, what it will all bring, how perfect it will be, because although the intentions may be there, we know how it often ends with us. So it's not always the positives that come true. In this context, I recall the words of former Russian Prime Minister Černomyrdin, who said: "We thought well, but it turned out as always. " But I firmly believe that this will not be the case in the case of electronic transcription. I believe that we will have a consensual position in the committee's discussion of this proposal. I say for myself, I'm ready for him. It is not my intention to mess up the permanent electronization of health care here, but I must admit that in our motivations, both concerns about financial costs and the fact that the system was not prepared for it. But once again, I have no doubt that we will find a solution that will prevent potential negatives and, on the one hand, will not kill definitively electronic transcription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-006-012.u29	Thank you, Minister. I ask if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. He doesn't. Just please check on me, Mr rapporteur. In the debate, there was no other proposal than to shorten the time limit for discussion by ten days. Okay. So we will continue by discussing the Committee's commandments for discussion, because there was no motion to return and reject. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Health. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I can't see. So we're going to vote on it. I'll check you out first, ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your voting cards. Once again, I will try to end the vote. I'm sorry, vote number 31 is misguided. You can sign up with your voting cards. Please. In vote number 33, we will deal with the commandment of the Health Committee. I've started the vote on order number 33 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 33. Of the 118 present for 116, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the reduction of the deadline by 10 days, i.e. to 50 days. I've started the number 34 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 34. Of the 122 Members present for 121 Members, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Health Committee and the deadline has been reduced to 50 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done with point 12. Just in case, I have an unfinished apology, or two. I will make an apology to Mr Martin Komárek from 17.30 for personal reasons and to Mrs Anna Putnová from 18.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Now we're going to look at point number
