ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u1	Madam, honourable Members, Prime Minister, Members of the Government, I am opening the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 42 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on 3 September 2014 and therefore all deadlines were met. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, report me the replacement cards you're using for protocol. I am now announcing that the replacement card numbers for the 14th and 16th meetings remain valid. Allow me to proceed with the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that the verifiers of this meeting be Members of František Laudát and Member Jiří Mihola. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. In order to vote on this proposal, I will therefore ask the chairmen of the club to respond to the gong and invite other colleagues and colleagues to the hall. I'm gonna sign you off for good, ask you for a new registration, and once the number of entries is settled, we're gonna approve the proposal for the verifier. [[After a while:]] I think there's a lot of people present. We will vote in vote number one on the approval of the verifiers František Laudát and Jiří Mihola. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1: 101 Members present for 98, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the verifiers of the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies have been appointed by František Laudát and by Jiří Mihola. As far as the agenda for this meeting is concerned, it has been established according to the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Act on Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the Chamber of Deputies only on the agenda set out in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. Now, before the vote on the agenda, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka came forward. Given his preferential right, I give him the floor, and I note that I have other applications with priority rights before the debate begins. I will respect them under the Rules of Procedure Act. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcomed the initiative of the opposition or part of the opposition to initiate an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the subject of the Czech Republic's relationship to the current security situation in Ukraine. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you about the progress of the Czech Government on this matter. After all, this issue does not appear on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies for the first time; in the past, debates have already been held here in plenary on the situation in Ukraine. The Committee on European Affairs has also dealt with this matter, and it has approved a recommendation for the Government's procedure in this regard. And I think it is perfectly natural that this debate is going on in the Czech Parliament because it is going on in every pub today, it is going on in the squares, it is going on where people meet, it is going on in the home, in the television news. People in the Czech Republic are very keenly interested in the situation in the east of Ukraine and it would be completely unnatural if we were here in the Chamber of Deputies to pretend that everything is okay and that we should only deal with issues other than the current crisis in Ukraine. I would like to start by making it clear what we are discussing, by introducing the Chamber of Deputies to the conclusion of the last European Council negotiations on this matter. I will not go back to what the European Council approved in the past, but I think it is necessary to look at the latest current position that was taken on the night of August 30, Saturday night, before the present ceasefire, which is currently in Ukraine. I must say that the Czech Republic has greatly welcomed the agreement between President Porošenk and the rebels on the conclusion of the ceasefire. Let me quote the conclusion of the European Council, to which the Czech Republic has also joined. It is therefore part of the third - External Relations, Ukraine: Recalling the statements made by the Heads of State or Government on Ukraine on 6 March and 27 May and my conclusions of 21 March, 27 June and 16 July - it is therefore clear that the European Council has addressed the topic of Ukraine at almost all its meetings during the spring and summer of this year, and I am returning again to the quote - the European Council remains extremely concerned about the ongoing and intensifying struggles in eastern Ukraine and continues to strongly condemn the illegal annexation of Crimea. He condemns the growing influx of fighters and weapons from Russian Federation territory to eastern Ukraine as well as the aggression of Russian armed forces in Ukrainian territory. He calls on the Russian Federation to withdraw immediately all its military resources and forces from Ukraine. The European Union reiterates the urgent need for a sustainable political solution based on respect for Ukraine's sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and independence. Finally, the conclusion of the European Council is that the European Council stresses the importance of the immediate implementation of President Porošenko peace plan. The first step should represent a mutually agreed and feasible ceasefire, ensuring that Ukraine regains control of its borders, and the immediate cessation of the influx of weapons, materials and military personnel from the Russian Federation to Ukraine, as well as the immediate release of all hostages held by illegal armed groups and prisoners detained in the Russian Federation. Once again, the European Council calls for immediate, secure and unlimited access to the MH17 aircraft impact point within the ceasefire. Once again, the European Council expresses its support for the valuable efforts of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Other Council conclusions on this matter: the European Council welcomes the tripartite talks launched between the European Union, Ukraine and the Russian Federation on practical issues in connection with the implementation of the Association Agreement, the deepening of comprehensive free trade zones and energy talks. The European Council calls on all parties to maintain this momentum in order to achieve tangible results within the agreed timeframe. It also encourages them to support and regulate the stable and secure transport of energy sources, especially gas. The European Council calls on all parties to support and facilitate the work of international humanitarian organisations without delay in accordance with international humanitarian law and principles. The humanitarian impact of the conflict on the civilian population should not be used for political or military purposes. The European Council calls on all contributors, including the Russian Federation, to support this international effort to assist under the auspices of the United Nations, in full recognition of the Ukrainian Government's primary role. The European Council continues to monitor and evaluate the restrictive measures taken by the European Union and, in the light of developments in the situation on the ground, is ready to take further important steps. I hereby proceed to the paragraph concerning the so-called Union sanctions: the European Council asks the Commission, together with the European External Action Service, to promptly carry out preparatory work and to submit proposals within a week for consideration. It asks the Commission to include in its proposal a provision on the basis of which each person and institution acting with separatist groups in Donbas will be included in the relevant lists. Finally, the last part of the European Council's conclusion on the situation in Ukraine: the European Council welcomes the emergency measures taken by the Commission to stabilise the European Union's agricultural and food markets in order to mitigate the impact of the restrictions imposed on imports of certain European Union agricultural products by Russia. It calls on the Commission to monitor the situation and to consider the possible adoption of further measures. This is a quote from the conclusion of the European Council, which has been approved by all EU Member States, including the Czech Republic. I have deliberately quoted him here whole, because in public space, in the media, in the statement of opposition, the European Council's conclusion is reduced only to the debate on Article 12, where the European Council gives the European Commission the task of carrying out preparatory work - in order to quote again - and to present proposals for consideration within a week. This is the conclusion of the European Council of 30 August on the issues of other sanctions introduced by the European Union towards Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have noted, after the European Council has adopted this conclusion, criticism from the opposition, particularly from the TOP 09 and the ODS. These two political parties have called for me to support the sanctions to be imposed by the European Union towards Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, on that night from 30 August to 31 August, I could not support the sanctions proposed by the European Commission in particular because no specific draft sanctions were on the table. I will then, of course, comment on all the questions that come to mind and which very often attack the citizens of the Czech Republic in terms of the meaning of sanctions, their effectiveness in the current situation. But let me first focus on that moment alone, on what really happened at the European Council meeting on 30 August. The conclusion that I introduced you to was approved on 30 August. The European Commission was tasked to prepare a proposal, a concrete proposal to introduce further sanctions. In a situation where I did not know the details of this proposal, I acted in such a way as to reserve the right to disagree with any part of this proposal. I have also reserved the right as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to make comments on this proposal from the European Commission. I considered it absolutely impossible to sign a Bianco check in the area of economic sanctions, especially because their exact form was not known, especially because their structure was not known, and especially because no one could at that time know what the exact impact of these newly introduced sanctions on the Czech economy would be. [[15.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that each of you, if he were in my position and wanted to act responsibly towards the citizens of the Czech Republic, would have to do the same. It's just not possible to sign something in advance that we don't know any details about. And if I had signed and agreed to this and said in advance, "Yes, the Czech Republic will agree with everything the Commission proposes," you would have rightly asked me, "Dear Prime Minister, what did you agree to at the European Council? Describe the details of the sanctions. What exactly did the Czech Republic agree to?" I couldn't tell you anything about it in a situation like this. On Saturday night, this general conclusion of the European Council was adopted. I have reserved the right to make comments on a specific form of sanctions. It was only Tuesday morning after 9:00 p.m. that the European Commission presented a concrete proposal for sanctions in the structure that follows up on the previous phase. On Tuesday morning, the Czech Republic received it. We have forwarded the proposal to the relevant ministries, we have asked them to evaluate potential impacts on the Czech Republic. We asked them to identify the risks related to Czech exports and the Czech economy, and possible impacts on the trade balance, to employment. We have prepared position material and on Wednesday the government approved a mandate for our negotiators. Part of the mandate was to apply comments on those parts of the draft sanctions, where we identified the greatest possible risks for the Czech industry and for the employment of people here in the Czech Republic. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the government could not have acted differently. As a sovereign state government, it must take into account national interest, taking into account the interest of the Czech Republic in all its efforts to maintain the European Union's and NATO's unified action towards the crisis in Ukraine. It is a government that corresponds to the citizens of the Czech Republic, and the assessment of this draft sanctions and impact assessment is one of the basic tasks of each responsible government. I can assure you and I can assure the representatives of the ODS and the TOP 09 that all other Member States of the European Union have acted in a similar way. All states have analysed the impact of the Commission's proposal on their economies. And I can also assure you that not only have the states that have expressed skepticism over the escalation of sanctions at the European Council meeting on 30 August this evening, but also a number of other countries. So the government approved the mandate for Czech negotiators at its Wednesday meeting, and I would like to thank the negotiators, because during Thursday and Friday's meeting, all the major reservations of the Czech Republic were applied in Brussels. We were - and now I will return to the material focus - first of all, we were concerned with protecting engineering exports in the field of so-called engineering. dual-use items. There was a threat that exports of machine tools to Russia would be stopped in the range of roughly annual trade of around CZK 3 billion. Similarly, export of technologies related to the functioning of the oil processing industry in Russia was threatened. There the potential of the threat to our exports was in the range of five billion crowns. The measures that we have put into sanctions, and the adjustments that we have imposed in the current form of sanctions, mean a positive impact, that is, we have reduced the risk of threatening our exports to the extent of about CZK eight billion. Other countries have also pushed their proposals, other countries have also applied their comments. Thus, the proposal was finally fine-tuned on Friday and an agreement was reached between all Member States. However, given that, at the same time on Friday, a ceasefire was concluded between Ukraine, the Ukrainian Government, President Porošenk on the one hand, and Ukrainian insurgents on the other hand, the European Council and the European Commission, after consulting the Member States, postponed the formal approval procedure for Friday's agreement in order to allow time for the ceasefire to be evaluated. The Italian Presidency has asked for a time-limit for sanctions to come into force and, at the same time, a mechanism is still to be sought so that, if the ceasefire continues and the situation in Ukraine will calm down in part, as the European Council has requested in its political conclusion, so that Europe can withdraw from these sanctions. The situation is therefore now such that the Czech Republic has enforced its comments on the form of new sanctions, the Czech government has managed to protect a large part of our economic interests, and sanctions are currently waiting for it to formally enter into force. In the European Union, there is a debate about whether this is a good time in a situation where a ceasefire has been concluded, where, according to President Porošenko statement, a part of Russian soldiers are retreating to Russia, if now is the time for the European Union to come along with the escalation of economic sanctions against Russia. I personally believe that it would be an appropriate gesture from the European Union if the sanctions were to be postponed if their effectiveness were to be suspended, depending on whether a ceasefire will continue to be observed in Ukraine. If you have listened to the conclusions of the European Council, the many processes to which the European Council called on August 30 have finally begun. A truce has been made, prisoners are exchanged. These are the first positive steps that have taken. And in my view, Europe should clearly support the political continuation of dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, this was a brief description of what happened at the European Council and what happened after the European Council meeting. I am convinced that the government has acted responsibly. She acted as the government of a sovereign state. Allow me, in the second part of my speech, to comment on sanctions as such. The European Union has gradually adopted a series of economic sanctions against Russia. Russia has responded to this with the first wave of its opponents and is currently debating and talking about another wave of anti-sanctions that it wants to adopt against the economies of the European Union countries. If we look at the effect that economic sanctions on Russia's behaviour have had on the European Union, it is evident that, although sanctions have damaged Russia's economy, they have not changed Russia's behaviour. When we look at the impact of sanctions on Russia's internal political situation, it has undoubtedly occurred that sanctions have brought Russia's society around President Putin closer together. Russia's opposition criticizes sanctions, which means sanctions have no support either among Russia's opposition parties. And if we look at the causes of the crisis in Ukraine, it is clear that these causes are purely political and that they are political targets from Russia which cannot and have not been changed in any way or deranged by the European Union's introduction of economic sanctions. I believe that the spiral of sanctions and the spiral of tensions between the European Union and Russia, between the Western world and Russia, cannot resolve the substance of the dispute that has taken place in eastern Ukraine and Ukraine as such. The dispute is linked to the different geopolitical ambitions which Russia has on the one hand and which the European Union has on the other hand and which NATO has on the other. The dispute has to do with Russia not wanting to accept Ukraine's right to decide for itself what integration group it will belong to. The dispute is related to the extent to which Ukraine has historically, culturally, economically, linguistically linked to Russia. The dispute is related to the extent to which the national problems that exist objectively in Ukraine have been addressed and have not been addressed. A whole series of these complex problems cannot solve the self-harder global economic sanctions that the European Union will adopt towards Russia. The problem can only be solved by a change in diplomacy and an active diplomacy that prevents the geopolitical conflict from being dealt with in the form of the current war that takes place in the east and southeast of Ukraine. I'm skeptical about the effectiveness of sanctions. I was not the only one who expressed the skepticism at the European Council meeting. It was also expressed by a number of other Heads of Government of each Member State. I am skeptical of the procedure that has been chosen in relation to the resolution of the crisis in Ukraine. Above all, I am skeptical that there is an effort to solve the problem without negotiations being held between Russia and the European Union and between Russia and Ukraine. [[15.20 hours]] I think it is also important that we talk not only about the impact of economic sanctions on Russia but also about the real economic and social reality in Ukraine. It is certainly a good thing that the European Union has provided support to Ukraine in this difficult situation, and it will undoubtedly be supported by the European Union, but the serious economic and social problems that exist in Ukraine cannot be resolved only by being financed by the European Union or the International Monetary Fund. Ukraine is facing a number of complex reforms. If there is no peace in Ukraine and agreement with Russia, Ukraine may be facing a serious humanitarian crisis this winter. If gas supplies are not restored, there is a serious problem that Ukraine will have to deal with. If new outlets for Ukrainian exports are not found, which was directed to Russia, Ukraine is also facing serious economic problems. I don't think it's possible to simplify these things, it's not possible to put on pink glasses, and it's impossible to ignore the real problems that are threatening here and that await us. By concluding an association agreement with Ukraine, the European Union has logically entered Ukraine and will have to participate actively in solving the problems that are in Ukraine. But the European Union itself cannot really solve Ukraine's problems. I clearly want to support the peaceful initiatives of the President of Ukraine Porošenko for the Government of the Czech Republic - and I did so at the meeting of the European Council. I think the conclusion of a truce with the Separatists was an important state act. I imagine on both sides those who have agreed on a truce must face the pressure of radicals who do not want a truce and push on both sides to continue fighting. So I want to clearly appreciate President Porošenko move, and I want to express my appreciation for his peace plan. The Czech Republic will undoubtedly support the extension of the ceasefire and the implementation of a peace plan that will allow people to stop killing in Eastern Ukraine so that the social, economic and humanitarian situation does not deteriorate there. There must also be an important role for the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, an important role for the United Nations, just all the forces and diplomatic initiatives that can help calm the situation in the east of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, so briefly to the start of the debate that I expect in the Chamber of Deputies, a description of the Government's progress on this matter. I am convinced that the government has aligned our interest in ensuring that Europe does not split, that it should act together against the crisis in Ukraine, and at the same time we have tried to push our national interests in a maximum way and we have tried to protect our economy in a maximum way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for his opening speech. We are still ahead of the beginning of the meeting, but I have seven entries on this subject, the agenda for which we are discussing. Now, President Okamura, Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared with priority rights. Mr Petr Fiala, Mrs Jermanová, then I, Mr Schwarzenberg and Mr Zaorálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly not a russophile or an admirer of Putin, and I always try to see every event unbiased and judge in all contexts. From this point of view, I can only say to the situation in Ukraine that the policy of sanctions is the way to hell for the Czech Republic. And I do not value this or I do not want to discuss the fact that many claims in this context have not been properly substantiated to this day, namely to this day we do not officially know who, for example. He shot down a Malaysian transport plane, although many media had been clear from the start and pushed us the right culprit. We've heard enough lies and lies about Ukraine over many months. I'll remember, for example. On an alleged column of Russian armored men, which no one had ever seen, but which the Ukrainian army immediately destroyed, so that there was no screw left. Our arguments - and we have been saying them for a long time and we are finally coming to terms with our words - that sanctions do not fundamentally move with Russia and only damage the Czech economy, they are now, I think, slowly all of them, or most of them gradually clear and it makes no sense to repeat them. And I have to say, I think that's what TOP 09 and ODS know. But I have the impression that the TOP 09 and the ODS apply in opposition sometimes, and perhaps even in this case, quite logical password that the worse, the better. This means making a good name in the fight for democracy, damaging the country's economy, and thus the current government coalition, and improving its position for the next elections. Unfortunately, as there are false arguments for economic sanctions as a solution to the Ukrainian crisis, so, in my view, the deliriousness of the right-wing opposition about democracy is also false. Neither of these two parties has ever wished for real democracy, and it does not, and whenever possible, attempts at democratic changes in this country, I mean in the Czech Republic, stomped into the country and, on the contrary, has made the Czech Republic a state controlled by a conglomerate of party elites and business godfathers in recent years. If someone were to think like a Democrat, he would have to say out loud that if an overwhelming majority, a part of citizens everywhere, is asking autonomy or autonomy in a country where they are indigenous people, in a country that is also largely economically drawn up and expressed their claims in a public and general referendum, then the democratically legitimized will of the citizens should be respected by the Democrats. And speaking of invasion of the Rus, let us talk not only about Russian volunteers on the side of people who defend their homes, but also about a balanced invasion of a regular Ukrainian army that bombs and bombs heavy cannons and rockets defenseless civilians. Let's talk about units composed of volunteers from Ukrainian pro-fascist and Nazi groups. Let us talk about hundreds, or a large number of professional mercenaries paid by Ukrainian oligarchs and NATO professionals, which has leaked in the media that they are e.g. from Poland or Lithuania, and again in the ranks of the Ukrainian army. The Rus helping their countrymen in Ukraine who are murdered by the army of a country whose citizens are themselves, that is, Ukrajinec, Ukrainian citizens of Ukrainian citizens, and no uncontrolled paramilitary groups, have its logic, because a decent person cannot remain cold to such crimes. That is why volunteers from all over Europe, including the Czech Republic, are fighting here. And let us not forget - and I would like to stress - that without Majdan and the anti-Russian laws in the Ukrainian Parliament, Crimea would not have broken off and, of course, would not have followed Donetsk and others. As far as sanctions are concerned, only a very unthinking person or a person who wants to win political points out of the war, regardless of the Czech citizens, can agree with them. We in the Dawn since the beginning of the Ukrainian crisis have been promoting a peaceful path of action, democratic self-determination, and not confrontation and escalation of tension. And we are glad that after many months of saying this and repeating it over and over again, and many of the lives of innocent people that have been ruined, others have finally come to this solution. If the Rus really wanted to be mean to us, they'd just shut the gas taps down in the fall under the pretext of sanctions, and we're done with the fun. After all, as we know, the European Union also avoids sanctions on Gazprom and only talks about subsidiaries precisely because natural gas supplies would be disrupted. And it wouldn't just be us, it would be all Europe. [[15.30 hours]] As we know from public sources, at this point Putin is acting around the world looking for business partners. When he finds them, he'll trade Evropan for Číňan, Ind, Brazilec or Mexičan, and we'll find that it's not Russia, but we're in places that aren't named in a decent society. It's a sad fact, dear friends, but the world can do without Europe. Unfortunately, there is nothing else that they can't produce in the same way or even better. We have had an economic and economic crisis, and only a real fool can try to summon it again. Only a real crook can destroy what our Czech exporters have hardly built in recent years. We left the Russian market as fools once in the 1990s and were immediately replaced by Západoevropan Europeans. It took years of work to rebuild a position. It is indeed "very wise" to flush it all down again, only because of the support of the Puchists of Majdan, who murder their fellow citizens for it, and then with them follow-up people, that they have decided democratically in a referendum that they do not want to live with them in one state. Not NATO, but the UN should immediately sit down and decide on a mechanism that would allow democratic elections in Ukraine, linked to a referendum in which citizens could freely decide their own self-determination. Everyone here is lashing out with democracy, but when it comes to breaking bread and citizens decide democratically differently than NATO headquarters or the US has decided, bombers come in. Those who initially supported the violent solution in Ukraine, and we were not at the beginning in Dawn, starting with the events in Majdan - and there was a significant part of it here in the House, since I also calculate that silence is consent - should at least be honest and say out loud that it is about weakening Russia and taking possession of another piece of Europe. And I stress that I'm not a russophile, and certainly not an admirer of Putin. Dear colleagues, let me remind you of some of the principles on which real democracy is based. The people are the bearer of sovereignty. The people in democracy only lend their power to representatives, voluntarily, and at any time they can take it away from the representatives. Citizens have an inalienable natural human right at any time in a referendum to express their will and also to decide on their own country's self-determination. If a government acts against the democratic decisions of its citizens, if they wish to live in their own way, mass murder, then this government is criminal and condemned. Here at this point, I call on the Government of the Czech Republic to stop supporting a regime that murders defenceless citizens of its own country for not wanting to live in a common state. I call on the government to stop supporting the regime that is bombing its otherwise-minded fellow citizens. In my opinion, the support for regimes that trigger civil wars that commit war crimes against their own civilian population, against the population with the same citizenship as their own, is illegitimate. I understand that the Rus are mainly being killed, and that is what our hawks like, and they even have the audacity to pass it off as a struggle for democracy, but despite everything the Rus have done to us in the past, I dare say that Ukrainian Rus is a man and has the right not only to self-determination but also to his life and security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u5	Thank you, Mr Tomie Okamur. Another with priority rights, Mr Radim Fiala. Mr Petr Fiala will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to Ukraine several times, and it has always been like this next episode, following what is likely to happen. Unfortunately, it's come true, so I'd like to keep doing this, and I believe that if I say that there should be some kind of optimistic end to it, then that's what's going to happen. I would like to remind all the advocates here present of mutual economic sanctions with Russia that all winter and the first half of spring, together with other Members of the Dawn, I, too, have strongly warned at this counter in the Chamber of Deputies about the start of the civil war in Ukraine. We said: Let us not support the overthrow of the democratically elected President Janukovyč, whatever he was like, who was even willing to take the early presidential elections himself. Let us not support the efforts of one half of Ukrainian society to suppress the rights of the other half of its fellow citizens. You didn't listen. The new Kiev government felt the support of the entire European Union behind its back and went so far as to break out civil war in the country. From mid spring to now, we tell you to stop pushing only one side of the conflict. No civil war ever has a military solution. This solution can only be the negotiations between Kyiv and the rebels, the negotiations to which we are to push both sides of the conflict together with Russia. The war of sanctions only leads to further escalation of bloodshed and escalation of conflict. Let us remember our own recent historical experience. If, after 1989, Czechoslovak officials followed the logic of the Kiev government today, then we could experience our own civil war pretty well. I can't do this. As long as Kiev continues to impose on the citizens of the east of his country the things they categorically reject, there will be blood flowing in the east of our borders. But if they start to act together, today's cultural, economic and social space of the Čech and Slovák will be an example of a peaceful settlement between the two. Yes, such negotiations may take months, even years, but it is always a better option than an hour of war. In the conflict in Ukraine, the Úsvit movement is on the side of the Czech national interests - let us not say that the Úsvit movement is on either side - and these are peace, peace, cooperation and trade. Finally, I would like to warn again all those who take one-sided positions and have a black and white view. You're driving us into a trade war with Russia. The price will be economic losses, unemployment and price growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u7	I thank Mr Radim Fial. Mr Petr Fiala will take the floor, Vice-President Jermanová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to explain and justify why we have asked to convene this extraordinary meeting and what seems so important to us on this matter. It is certainly not the position of the European Council with which the Prime Minister has acquainted us, but it is the way in which this government and the Prime Minister defend Czech interests, the way in which this government implements foreign policy, which, in my opinion - if any - threatens the interests and security of the Czech Republic and Czech citizens. I confess that I do not understand our foreign policy, I do not understand the aims pursued by the Prime Minister by his actions, and I will be glad to be able to explain this at this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The steps of Prime Minister Sobotka and his government are in sharp contrast with what he declared before the European elections. At the time, he promised that his goal was to be in the mainstream of European integration, that he did not want to surprise the European Union, that he wanted to be part of the so-called European core. I do not, of course, share this policy, I do not think it is right in the vast majority of matters, but I think that it is precisely on security issues where it is not about the European Union, but it is about European democratic states that want to adopt a common position, so that this common position should also be declared by the Czech Republic, because it is in our interest, and that is the only case where Prime Minister Sobotka does not listen blindly to what Brusel is saying, but is trying to go some way of his own. [[15.40 hours]] Despite what the government has declared, we have no common foreign policy, we do not have common positions, we have different types of foreign policy, everyone thinks, says and does something different. There is nothing that can be done either in the European Union or on the international stage. The Czech Republic at times some foreign policy, even some foreign policy, as if it were missing. And we see the results, we see what the Czech Republic or this government has achieved in negotiating for the position of European Commissioner, and if the Prime Minister is satisfied with the fact that we have justice and equal rights, that is, that we have negotiated this post for our candidate for the European Commission, then no one else is satisfied with it, because this is as useless a position as Minister Dienstbier holds in his government. The Prime Minister also repeatedly changes his mind and does not have a clear view of some key foreign policy issues. They also tell us that sanctions do not work - on what basis? How do we know that? How do we know sanctions don't work when they haven't even started paying properly? That is what the Dawn colleagues say, but perhaps everyone, as well as the Prime Minister and the Dawn colleagues, can ask themselves, when they take the same view here, whether or not this truce and that we are heading perhaps to a peaceful solution today is no longer the result of sanctions, and it is not the result of finally showing that we are ready to have a common position and in some way to push Russia to act in accordance with the international order. Moreover, I do not understand why Prime Minister Sobotka says that sanctions do not work, but he has supported them several times in making decisions - or several times, at least once, in making decisions in the European Union voluntarily. So if the Prime Minister has changed his mind, he should say so, he should admit it, he should introduce us to what will be the next steps of Czech diplomacy and Czech foreign policy and its own personality. The feeling of security and security, and that is what this is about, certainly does not contribute to the security of the Czech Republic, when most people do not understand the Prime Minister's steps, when a substantial proportion of journalists even call them cowardly and when their own vice prime minister speaks of the second Mnichov. I think that is enough reason for the Prime Minister to clearly explain to us what he is doing, what it will bring us, what interests he defends and what he wants to achieve. And we haven't heard that one yet. Ladies and gentlemen, part of our political representation is really acting against the security interests of the Czech Republic, including because it completely underestimates what is happening in eastern Ukraine and does not understand what is happening there and does not want to admit that the conflict has a much greater scope than how we are calming down here. It's not a local conflict, it's not a local conflict you look at tonight at the news, you wave your hand over it, you have another beer and you go to sleep happily. The conflict that is taking place in eastern Ukraine has all the features, all the features of a potential world or global conflict, for at least three reasons. Firstly, it involves a nuclear power with traditional imperial objectives, and secondly, the previously declared interests of Europe and the United States - which are not able to respond adequately - are being violated. And thirdly, it is a geopolitically sensitive point, a historical-cultural conflict line where conflicts or conflicts of wider reach are easily erupted. That's just it, and putting our heads in the sand and saying it doesn't concern us, that's good, that's gonna figure out Russia and Ukraine, that's really not gonna protect us, because it's just blindness from reality and not admitting that there's an international order being violated and that there's something going on here that can put us all and our children in danger in a fatal way. When I say this, I would like to distinguish myself clearly from those who see the situation in black and white and for whom Ukraine is a clear good and Russia is a clear evil. Speaking of the international situation, of the international order, and of the danger to Western democracies, that does not mean that I see Ukraine and Russia in this black and white scheme. Ukraine, which I know well, is not a model of democracy, and I say for myself that ideas need to be taken into the European Union more quickly or I consider NATO to be complete nonsense. Similarly, President Putin is not a dictator, he is the creator and product of a regime that is adequate for Russian society and which reflects its political will. For me - and it should be for others - it is not important, however, what happens inside Russia and what happens inside Ukraine. Being against Russian action on the international stage in this case, and that is clearly what I am, that is not to be against Russia. One can also be a russophile, but anyone who looks at things with common sense and who looks at them mainly in terms of the interest of our country, which I fear many do not do, so everyone must be disturbed by Russian procedure in Ukraine. Russia is not moving against Ukraine here, but it is going against the international order that we are part of and is threatening the interests of Western democracies. Russia also, and let us remember, violates international commitments. Russia is doing what is not done, in this case perhaps violating the Budapest memorandum of December 1994, i.e. the treaty itself signed, an agreement to which it committed itself. And it itself is sufficient reason for sanctions and certainly also for strengthening military presence on the eastern borders of the North Atlantic Alliance. I do not doubt at all that it is possible to have legitimate comments on sanctions and to protect our own interests, but this must be based on diplomatic negotiations that lead to a roundhouse that leads to some outcome that seeks to find alternative solutions at the negotiating table, it cannot be via the media. Yes, other countries also had their ideas on how sanctions should look, but they did not do it a priori, they did not question the common position, they negotiated. And unfortunately, we cannot negotiate in this case, or the Prime Minister is showing a negotiating style that I do not understand, not just me, but our allies. I must say that I am also glad that Czech companies can export machine tools to Russia, I know those companies, I was in them, I like them and I wish them well. But ladies and gentlemen, I would expect the government to take care of something else, to understand the traditionality, depth and reach of a conflict that is not limited to the territory where it takes place, and to act accordingly -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u9	Mr President, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. Please, if you have a non-topic discussion, transfer it to the lobby so that Mr Fiala can finish his speech in peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u10	But the government does not act accordingly, it does not acknowledge the extent and danger of this conflict for the Czech Republic, and this is one of the biggest mistakes of contemporary foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one rule in foreign policy and international relations: If you do not show strength, if you do not show determination to use that power, if you do not have a clearly defined will, someone will get you sooner or later. And even if we don't like it, it's just international politics. If you want to maintain your position, if you want to maintain peace, if you want to secure your interests, you need to have the strength to do so, and you also need to be determined to use that power. [[15.50 hours]] This Western democracy, the West, is currently doing only imperfectly, but since they are already doing so in some ways, it is in the interests of the Czech Republic to join them fully and not question their common position. We, and I see it in some comments, have a tragic tendency to be somewhere between, to become some kind of bridge, to stay among those forces that are creating some international conflict today, not to lean entirely towards the West, not even Russia, but not even to go against anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, look into our history. Whenever we took that attitude, it didn't pay off. Being among them doesn't pay off in international politics. It's the stupidest strategy we can ever stand for. And we have no alternative today. We have the only alternative to ensuring our security, and that is cooperation within the North Atlantic Alliance, an alliance with Western democracies, because nothing else can guarantee security and lasting peace for Europe. There is therefore no other way for the Czech Republic. Just because the government doesn't see it doesn't mean it's not. The Czech Republic has no alternative but to stand fully on the side of Western democracies that do not threaten us. That's the only force that really doesn't threaten us, and that's the only one that can guarantee our safety. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all those who question our alliance with the West, who question the clear position of the Czech Republic on the side of Western democracies, who have many ideas about what sanctions should otherwise look like, or that they should not be at all. So I ask them: Do you have any reasonable alternative to securing the Czech Republic, to ensuring the interests of the Czech Republic? I don't know any. If you know her, if the Prime Minister knows her, I beg him to introduce her to us. But if we have no reasonable alternative, let us not act like a smart hobby, let us not act like small children, but let us behave wisely and responsibly, otherwise we threaten the interests of the Czech Republic. I call on you, Prime Minister, to implement a sensible foreign policy that consistently protects the interests of the Czech Republic and its security. It's not happening yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u11	I thank Mr Petr Fial. Before Vice-President Jermanová gets off, my colleague Milan Šarapatka and one of his colleagues have been looking for plaids since 5:00 p.m. If anyone knows about him, then they should be at the presentation so that the coworker doesn't lose him. If it's done because I didn't have enough to say it, it's okay. As soon as the O.R. calms down, I'll give the floor to Vice-President Jermanová. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, the Malaysian plane was shot down by Rus, Ukrajinec, pro-Russian separatists, militants, rebels, Russian nationalists, Ukrainian nationalists, American secret services, Putin. Man, choose! You'll find a lot of evidence for each variant. Someone's wiretaps, you don't know who, photos of some kind of rocket you don't know about, when and where they're from, whether they're leaving or coming and where they're going. Everyone believes what they want. So is the version of events on Maidan, etc. But look out! Official, politically correct, and in the media, there is always only one version. How do you know? How not to succumb to a media massage, not to be lost in an information mist, not to be deaf in disinformation noise? How can I not succumb to humanitarian bombings where civilian quarters are being bombed by missiles in the east of Ukraine? How can we really support efforts for a united democratic Ukraine in the face of people in refugee camps? The only way to do that is to study things carefully with critical reason. Ukraine is worth it. It is also an important part of our Czech history and that is not what we are talking about here. For a long time there was a large Czech minority in Ukraine, which was very important both in the form of Ukraine today and in our state. The migration of Čech in Ukraine today, of course Russia, started over 300 years ago. The Čech moved to Ukraine in the second half and at the end of the 19th century. The agricultural colonists were followed by intelligence, businessmen, scientists, experts in various fields, teachers, musicians, artists as well as entrepreneurs, engineers, technicians and skilled craftsmen and workers. Before World War I, Czech and Slovak migrations in Russia stood at 100,000 people. It was the Čech who participated in building the foundations of the Ukrainian industry and other sectors, including banking. Followers of former Czech factories often work today. Like the foundation of the Ukrainian gramophone industry - Jindřiškov's Extrafon factory. Or a transport engineering plant Česká vozovka, Křivánkova and Gretherova strojírna and foundry, which was a direct competitor of Škoda's plants and until recently under the name Biľšovyk was one of the leading industrial companies on the world scale. There's nothing left of the industrial group today. UngermannUngermannův and The most edible foundry of malleable alloys is the predecessor of today's Ukrainian engineering giant ATEK. Today's Kiev automatonic race Petrovsky is the former autoengineer's factory Homola. František Paul's engine room is today called Radar. Vondrákův's hotel Praha is still standing in Kiev. Only in Kiev until 1918 the Čech had a school, a theatre where Zdeněk Štěpánek played with two theatre ensembles. His own magazines, where Jaroslav Hašek, a choir of singers, a number of associations, worked here Sokol, library, cafes, and even Čech had their own park, which they founded. His name was Stromovka. In Kiev, Čech was founded here by a living Czech army, later called the Czechoslovak Legion. A few days after the end of the war, the Russian Tsar agreed to establish Czech troops. These have been distinguished on the Russian front since the beginning of World War I. The Czechoslovak legions became one of the main pillars of the creation of Czechoslovakia. About the period when so-called Podkarpatská Russian, or Zakarpatská Ukraine, belonged to the Czechoslovak state, nor is it necessary to speak. It was a period of increasing prosperity and prosperity in this area. For the idea, even in 1947, after huge waves of brutal Nazi and Stalinian genocide only on Volyna, a small area in the northwestern part of Ukraine, 40,000 Čech lived in 638 municipalities, many of which were purely Czech, and my family came from them. Ukraine has always succeeded when no one has argued whether it is Ukrajinec, Čech or Russian, when the hotel of Russian and Czech entrepreneurs stood beside each other and did not burn it down, when Czech engineering companies employed alongside the Čech Republic and thousands of Ukrajinec, when Czech theatre was played in Kiev Stromovka. The worst time for Ukraine was when the Bolsheviks decimated Czech factories, when most of the Čech were sent to concentration camps or shot as foreign spies. The worst times were when German troops burned Czech villages, when at Kiev in a ravine called Babi Jar just a few kilometers from Majdan, where today openly someone dares to wear Nazi symbols, the Nazis massacred to a hundred thousand other Žid, Rom, Ukrajinec, Rus, Čech. The worst times were for Ukraine, when nationalism and intolerance were proclaimed. Today thousands of Čech still live in Ukraine. According to the 2001 census, they claim our nationality 5 912. According to sober estimates, there are at least 20,000 Čech living here. He works here for 20 national cultural associations. When Ukrainian events began, many Czech families begged us for help. [[16.00 hours]] They weren't doing well. They were also exposed to the attacks of Ukrainian nationalists. Unlike Poland or Hungary, where they took care of their countrymen, we did not help anyone. It wouldn't cost us much. Just show interest. Ask. Our common Ukrainian-Czech history is worth it. It is worth asking, comparing, pondering and carefully considering whether economic interests are more prominent at the moment than social and moral interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u13	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Mr Jan Hamáček, President of the Chamber of Deputies, apologizes from today's meeting before we continue the debate. Furthermore, Mr Vojtěch Filip is registered with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u14	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I must first say that the point to be discussed was called by the conveners of the Government of the Czech Republic on the sanctions of the European Union against the Russian Federation. As has already been said in the Prime Minister's words, sanctions may have been conditional and their application has been postponed by a ceasefire decision. Therefore, in my view, the point as such is not ripe for discussion and, in my view, it is not for discussion either. Maybe we could discuss the way some of us started here, other things. And I think it deserves a certain point. In any case, we could go back to the way and under the pressure that the situation in Ukraine was discussed here in February and March, and how the person expressed himself and what came out of it. Because the very procedure, which is, maybe is a little misunderstood by the situation and maybe it's a good thing that I'm speaking just after Vice-President Jermanová, who remembered the history of the Čech and Ukrajinec. You know, I believe that we are currently in a situation where we should clarify some of the priorities of Czech foreign policy. And those who speak here should use the same meter on all of them. Not a double standard method. Those who are calling for some fundamental procedures and sanctions here should say how much they are willing to lose on these sanctions themselves. To apologize for not having the same strong view of the war situation in Palestine when it broke out and the war situation in Palestine deepened and people died there. And I haven't heard from those who are speaking here today about how to treat these aggressors, about how to treat Israel's government. And I only remembered that because we had a visit to Israel's Knesset today and yesterday. And please, let's not use the double standard method. It's very dangerous. It is dangerous for Europe, for the Czech Republic. It's dangerous for further development. President Fiala here spoke about how the Russian Federation violates the rights of Ukrajinec. I'm asking if we've taken the same stand on violating other people's rights when weapons were used in other territories. Where was the crucial position that the no-fly zone was breached? How did we treat the conflict in Libya, and what became of Libya? A functional state that had claims across Europe has become a state that is just before the collapse, where we do not know who controls oil resources, and in particular we do not know where millions have been lost in state accounts, virtually. billions of dollars in government accounts. Who did this didn't ask. We could also talk about the situation in Syria. Who caused the conflict, and how did the people of Syria decide in the elections, and who did they elect? They chose the one who was rejected and who was constantly referred to as the pest of the state. Yet Syria's citizens have re-elected for the head of their state. Because they have a different opinion than those who want to exploit their natural and economic resources. As for the situation that others have outlined here. Let me remind you of my words from March of this year when we talked about this here. I have said that I am familiar with the situation in Ukraine and that I am informed by my colleagues from the Ukrainian Communist Party. Yes, fascinating power in Ukraine tried to abolish the faction in the Ukrainian parliament, tried to put the Ukrainian Communist Party out of law. And you know what happened on Thursday? The trial didn't take place because the power wasn't working in court. That's how far the current Kiev power has led it. That the state authorities aren't working. When we promised to send an attorney who deals with international law, who was there on the side of Ukrainian communists, one of the current powerful Mr Ljašek and his gorillas was attacked, including fellow lawyers from Portugal, Greece, Ukraine, and in front of representatives of the General Prosecutor of Ukraine, the police were threatened, just as the judge was threatened. I don't blame that particular judge of the Ukrainian court for taking advantage of the fact that there's no power, and she interrupted the trial. We have come so far in support of power, which is unable to secure the most fundamental principles of the functioning of the democratic state! That means at least the independence of the courts, a trial that does not involve people who have nothing to do with legal proceedings. Not to mention the fact that the courts themselves don't work because they don't have enough electricity. In this respect, therefore, I would like to remind you that we are also going to have a very dramatic discussion about how the Czech Republic will respond to what is happening in Ukraine, especially for reasons that are essential to us: if there is enough gas and oil and who will secure the supply of gas and oil through Ukrainian territory. If it is power that has not been able to maintain an agreement for four hours with three foreign ministers of the European Union who are unable to secure the conduct of a trial ordering their regular army to attack their own people, or if it is someone else who will be elected to constitutional functions in the Republic of Ukraine after the ceasefire on 26 October. That's a crucial question, isn't it? How will the European Union behave? How will Czech politics behave when we face a problem here, whether we have enough gas or if someone in Ukraine steals it and doesn't even get the gas into the Czech Republic? How are we gonna behave? Who are we gonna ask to get those vans in here? Will the loop at Ingolstadt be enough for us? And where are we going to buy that gas if we're not able to have a normal policy with those states that we otherwise have no conflict with? In my view, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany Steinmeier is right, who says that there is nothing left for the European Union but to proceed in a way that respects the interests of the European Union throughout the world. Not the interests of the Euro-Atlantic, but the interests of the European Union, i.e. own Union states. And I'm not saying anything that's not public. [[16.10 hours]] You know, he himself will be very overwhelming to the Czech Republic if sanctions are applied and anti-sanctions are applied. The Russian Federation has certainly survived the sanctions that we have applied as the Czech Republic or the European Union without harm. The economic potential may have diminished for a while, but deliveries from us were replaced by the People's Republic of China after two days, meat supplies replaced Brazil and Czech, Slovak, Polish and other producers in the Russian Federation will be unlucky for the future. Sanctions in the banking area will only result in the emergence of a gold-based ruble. This will, of course, cost the monetary system of the European Union and, in particular, the indebted United States of America steps that will not be able to negotiate with the Russian Federation in any way without agreement. Because the creditors of the United States of America are the People's Republic of China, the biggest creditor, followed by Japan, and I don't know how long Japan will want to pay off American debts that they have made by printing worthless green paper. The value of the dollar is given only by the fact that there is so much dollar in the world's currency markets that the creditors of the United States of America would betray it's own economy. And I dare say here, as my colleague Radim Fiala said, one estimate that the value of the dollar will currently be as high as it is until the creditors of the United States of America calculate that the loss of the excess dollars and the loss of that value is greater than the loss of any war conflict. As the scales turn, and the losses that would trigger a possible war conflict should be greater than the loss of the value of the surplus dollars, so at that point the dollar will be downgraded. It's not some thought that was born now that I made it up. This is a long-term discussion of many economists in various world forums. And I note that it is supported by credible economic analyses of those banks that are not really afraid of how the International Monetary Fund is progressing. The establishment of a bank in BRICS is ahead of us. And all we have left to decide in Europe is how we will proceed as an emancipated part of the multipolar world. The Bipolar world ended in 1989-1990. The one-polar world ended in 2008. If, even after six years, those who imagined there would be a one-polar world to decide without the UN Security Council, the United States of America can't do anything, their actions are numbered. [[There's a laugh on the right.]] No one anticipated the fall of the Roman Empire either. And believe me or not, in this respect, those states that have something to talk about in the world economy, in world politics, will not be allowed to decide their fates. And I'm not talking about anyone but Europe, China, Brazil, the Arab world. They will all want equal access to decision-making on the next world movement. In my view, we should think very rationally about how the European Union will contribute to the achievement of a ceasefire between the Ukrainian Government and representatives of the Donetsk Republic, the Republic of Luhan, which is called separatists, has ended as long as possible, with an agreement ending the murder of innocent people and ending further normal democratic developments in Ukraine and in Europe. I would not like to contribute anything that could fuel disputes between the warring parties. I am convinced that the ceasefire agreement is a common victory for those who think that in a multipolar world it is impossible to make decisions at the expense of others and not to bear responsibility for themselves. Let me say that given that it is not about sanctions, it is about their dimension, because this condition is here and Europe does not apply it to say that the KSČM club will not support this item or this meeting. I think it will certainly be a good time for us to look into the possible position of the Government on the further progress of the Czech Republic within the European Union, within the OSCE, in order to ensure the best possible and peaceful future for the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u15	Thank you. Another registered priority is Mr Schwarzenberg. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, I will not talk here about the situation in Ukraine, because what I can talk about is our behavior after the annexation of a part of Ukraine, the attack on the border of Ukraine and the occupation of this part of Ukraine by Russian troops associated with the rebels there. That's a true statement about the so-called. the situation in Ukraine. It was an army that conquered Crimea, it was an army that decided to fight now on the Ukrainian border. They weren't rebels. Insurgents, rebels look different. To see them today, typical scenes are, say, in the warriors of the Islamic state. Those were disciplined troops of trained army, speaking Russian, with Russian soldiers from all areas of the Russian Federation controlled from the Russian outback. That's what we need to talk about, the way we treat it. Yes, there have been doubts about the scope of sanctions. I admit that the sanctions were unfortunately done following the pattern of sanctions against Iran, when there was a danger that Iran would build nuclear weapons and missiles. And so the sanctions began. Everyone knew that the development of these weapons would take years to fly, and therefore it was time to intervene with gradual sanctions and to get Iran to a certain retreat that we are now seeing. [[16.20 hours]] In this case, the situation was different. There was an open attack on a neighbouring European country. There was no time for slow entry. There we should immediately intervene as hard as possible to make the attacker, the aggressor, immediately feel the consequences of his behavior. Unfortunately, it didn't. When I hear discussions, where we avoid words like Russia's war against Ukraine - what is it other than war when I send armed forces to a neighbouring country or when I annex part of it? It's a war, in my opinion. Nothing else. But we don't dare talk about it. And so, unfortunately, our behavior was somewhat unfortunate in this situation. Questioning the obvious facts, whether it was from the head of state, which required further evidence, when the whole world had already seen the photos, heard the prisoners speaking Russian, recognized the latest Russian weapons, etc., but still required evidence in Russian ingenence. I must also mention our approach to the country that experienced and complained terribly about betrayal in 1938, the silence of the world. When the Warsaw Pact army entered the Czechoslovak Republic on August 21, we complained that we were abandoned. But this time, when the country was friendly to us, not far from Ukraine, ambushed, the main thing was to see if we could afford sanctions too. Yes, we'll probably also record certain losses. War always requires sacrifice, and this is a war that Russia has waged not only against Ukraine, but actually against the whole of Europe. For what was the cause of the Russian campaign to Ukraine? That Ukraine dared to enter into an association agreement with the European Union and thus break free from Russian sovereignty. I consider this from our side, which has experienced so much, really sad procedure. 75 years ago, a great Czech poet wrote a verse "the bell rings, the bell rings" I admit it wasn't a bell in my country, it was just a tinkle, not a key from Wenceslas Square, but a bell of treason. We'll just question our involvement. For God's sake, don't let anyone blame us for having dared to turn against the great Gosudaro. But only when we are sure that we are fully secured by other European states, then we agree instead, as a state and a republic with the experience we have from the past, that we are in the front row of those who are fighting aggression. Gentlemen, we are not such a great state that the words of our statesmen or politicians or, say, delaying sanctions and easing and weakening do great harm. Thank God we're too small a state for that. But let's face it, at least we have disgraced ourselves. Ukrajinec who believed that especially Čech with their experience would be at their side were, of course, somewhat disappointed. There was a wonder in Europe. I remind the Swedish Foreign Minister's question, and who knows Carl Bildt is one of the most thoughtful, thoughtful foreign ministers that exists in the European Union, if our head of state has access to secret services. All this has given us a lousy reputation. And to be honest, I blame our government and our president for not finding clear, decisive words from the start in this critical situation, when it was attacked by a European peaceful country open to aggression, and it was not at the forefront of those who faced this aggression. I'm sorry to have to say this about my own president, my own government, but I have to say that I have rarely been as ashamed as I have been in recent weeks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister Zaorálek is now duly entered into the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u18	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I have listened carefully to a speech here concerning the foreign policy of the Czech Government. I've been watching closely. I remember some of the sentences that were said here. I remember the phrase "I'm not going to be black and white in my performance, but the government doesn't know what's going on in Ukraine." It also seemed that there was no Czech foreign policy and that we might learn something about it here today. So allow me to say a few words. I would like to tell you that a rather rare visit to Prague this morning - Mr Didier Burkhalter, President of the Swiss Federation, who is the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Switzerland and who is currently chairing the OSCE. He was accompanied by Mr Lamberto Zannier, Secretary-General of the OSCE. I see Mr. Burkhalter quite often, but today I was very happy that he was here, so I was really happy that he was here. And you know why? Because the OSCE is the only international institution that is part of Mr.Petr Porošenko peace plan, because the peace plan that I can read to you here is an immediate ceasefire, a second OSCE monitoring, a third decentralisation and a fourth monitoring of the Russian-Ukrainian border. On these points, you will find the OSCE several times. I repeat that this is the only international institution that is directly included in the resolution of this conflict. I spoke to Mr. Didier Burkhalter today, who told me his last conversations with Mr. Vladimír Putin, relatively very fresh. Mr. Zannier informed me about the negotiations he had with the Pro-Russian separatists. He even specifically told me the last time he dealt with specific persons. I am saying this because I felt this visit, and not only this visit, today the OSCE held a very strong meeting with us, because Prague held an economic and environmental conference of the OSCE. I was the host of this conference, which I attended at the beginning. But, of course, I took my time and had quite a good time with the two gentlemen I hosted here today. I have the impression that these talks were of great value to me because they were incredibly fresh information about what is happening in Ukraine at this moment. I would like to remind you that at this point, the OSCE has the task of deploying monitors on the armistice line between the two parties, that I have dealt with them on border monitoring issues, the possibilities they have, and what they need to fully fulfil this function. [[16.30 hours]] I'm sorry, I'm saying this with some bitterness because I had to hear the words that nobody here knows anything about what's going on in that territory. I dare say that the negotiations I had today were with those who may know more about this than anyone else. Because I will add that the European Union and COREPER have requested the OSCE report on how the ceasefire in eastern Ukraine is being observed at this afternoon's meeting. The OSCE is an institution that has been asked to report on this. I am almost sorry that we did not pay more attention to this visit in this country, because perhaps you would find a better source at this point. So when we're talking about who in this room knows what's going on in the east of Ukraine, and when the government was accused here, they said they didn't know anything about it. Do you understand? And this was presented as an unblack and white assessment of the situation. You know, I understand that this whole thing is probably killing the public. I myself was in Eagle and Frýdek-Místek, where I watched the citizens split into two groups that became two rival groups about the view of Ukraine. So I know how to break up the company. I would like to start by challenging - it seems to me that there is something wrong with the dispute, because it seems to me that in this country, even though I was watching the citizens in that square, I am convinced that basically those people there are after the same thing. They're worried about what's going on, and they want to ensure the safety, the prosperity of their lives, they want to live a normal life. I feel that this is what connects us, and that we should also think about it in this House when we are discussing things such as serious conflicts at our borders. You know, it seems to me that we're a nation that just wanders on a certain path together and travels in a rather uncertain world. And we should remember that even if the situation is difficult and the future is not always clear, it will be important how we can talk about what is happening around us in this country, and if we can create some unity in it. If the nation holds together. I'd like to appeal to that. The debate, it's hard stuff, but I still think there should be nothing to prevent us from finally agreeing that the main thing we want to do is to share it. And we should have a little faith in that: the opposition to the coalition and we as a coalition are prepared to believe in the opposition, that we actually think well about this country and that we must not get over it. Now, let me get back to what I started. Mr Didier Burkhalter told me, and he told me twice that he wanted to appreciate the position of the Czech Republic, because he found the position of the Czech Republic to be realistic - justified, reasonable, reasonable, judgmental, so it could be translated. And why does the position of the Czech Republic seem judgmental and reasonable to him? He said because it seems to him that the Czech Government and the Czech Prime Minister understand that sanctions themselves are not strategies, that sanctions are actually an instrument that must be part of some overall plan. He said that I was interpreting it, but he said part of it at a press conference, so hopefully I'm not saying anything I shouldn't. He said that there was a strategic level, that's the decision we made about sanctions, and then the operational, the way we're going to deploy those sanctions, because according to him, sanctions won't make sense in terms of what's going on in Ukraine today unless they're accompanied by appropriate diplomatic activity. And he thinks that diplomatic activity is very important. Otherwise, he said, if there are only sanctions, we will trump each other against each other and escalate the spiral that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka also spoke of by coincidence. Then it's just a spiral that goes up, and that doesn't lead to a solution. He said that it doesn't mean that there's a simple solution or that there's a simple path or that there's some guaranteed recipe, but that somewhere we need to break the spiral of how we trump from one side or the other. Otherwise, we don't have to go far. I'd like to support what I quoted here yesterday. In the New York Times, an article by three American diplomats, Mr Jack Matlock, Thomas Pickering and James Collins, came out of yesterday's New York Times, and there's actually something very similar in it. If you find it, you can read it yourself. They say if the dialogue stops, we'll pay hard for it. They say that only through diplomatic means, and if diplomatic means are properly, efficiently, creatively used, only then Petro Porošenko has a chance to exploit the possibilities of a peace plan and restore Ukraine's sovereignty. It is a great appeal for politicians to realize that without diplomacy - and it is said - we will move according to the Old Testament saying an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. And we don't stand a chance of... It's actually something very similar that I quoted today by the Swiss President. I am saying this to you to consider, when there are judgments here, that "I was ashamed of the government," or when it says that the government has no policy, that what has happened, or what we do, that the Prime Minister of this country has allowed himself to ask, what sanctions, that he has simply allowed himself to think of these sanctions. Today, when I dealt with the OSCE officials, they have pointed out to me that the way in which these sanctions are taking place also raises questions for them. That, for example, GASPRO can issue bonds in Frankfurt and other countries can't. And that it was right that we said that we needed to talk about it from the point of view of the effectiveness of the sanctions. Is it so wrong for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to say that he wants to talk about it so that it can be really effective? Is that a mistake? Is that an incomprehensible government policy? Is that something someone wants to be ashamed of? I just think, I can assure you that if I didn't feel I had reasons to defend this position, I wouldn't. I don't need it. And I think what the Prime Minister said here just makes sense, and I'm able to prove it with other arguments. I would just, folks - you know, it was said here that we don't understand how serious what's going on in Ukraine. So the government is obviously limited and does not realize at all that what is threatening, as we have heard here, may even be a global conflict. I'm sorry, we didn't really think of that. We obviously didn't think that far. But that's trivial, right there. You see, I assure you that we in the government have thought that what is happening in Ukraine is dangerous, and I can also tell you why, in my own words. It may have been very much discussed at the NATO summit, for example, in the sense that it happened here that part of such disrespect for security architecture became the state that built the security order, which was involved in it, which is a member of the Security Council and which obviously has the second largest potential for nuclear weapons. This is a statement that is clear. It is not true that we do not know what threats surround us. I want to assure you that we know very well about them. And I am also pleased that there is a request for us to talk about it, because it is an obligation for our citizens to talk about it. And maybe we should talk about other threats. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at the summit of the top representatives of the states, the Alliance Member States, it was referred to as the main threat not to the conflict in Ukraine, which I do not want to underestimate for a moment, but there was talk of the Islamic State. The negotiations have not been fully published and will probably not be. I'm telling you this, but I think I can say that. Seventy percent of the time was devoted to the Islamic State. If we want to talk about threats, we should make time for this, too. You know why? Because it was said that for the first time in the history of this planet, a terrorist, violent group, without shielding anything, even saddled the entire state. In the past, Al Qaeda was a Taliban parasite, but today we have a terrorist group that has extraordinary funds, sophisticated weapons, and even former Saddámův Army generals, and has equipment that no one here has ever dreamed of. [[16.40 hours]] And it is from an environment where thousands of people from Europe come to learn there for war in the countries of Europe! And even this Islamic state declared war on Europe! While in the case of the resolution on Ukraine, I have repeated several times that NATO has made it clear that it does not feel threatened by Russia at the moment. We do not understand that Russia is planning an attack on NATO member states. We are simply preparing ourselves, given what is happening and what is serious, but it is not that at the NATO summit we are talking about Russia as an enemy. While there was talk of a conflict that actually is even more surprising in something and grew up literally weeks before the NATO summit. So I'm not at all opposed to talking about the threats, and I'm just saying this whole thing here to convince you that it's not like the government doesn't know anything. Of course, we are watching this with the same concerns as citizens in this country, and we are ready to talk about it in this House, and even here in the House and about the other threats that unfortunately threaten us today. I am not saying this to scare anyone, but because I think it is our duty as politicians who are now part of the government in the Czech Republic. So I want to appeal to what I said in the introduction when we say that we don't want to be black and white, so that we can live up to it here in these shows. So the discussion in this is correct. I don't think it's happy to blame us for not knowing anything that's going on in Ukraine. I hope I've proven to you that we've done enough of this. And when you consider the steps of the government, the steps of the Prime Minister, I urge you to take a real look at it from a different angle than what you have been offered so far. I don't think it's that obvious. I understand that it may seem to you that you need to speak as hard as possible, as strongly as possible, and that this is like a clear position. On the other hand, if you talk about this in Germany with other politicians like Steinmeier, everyone will say to you: We are also responsible for getting out of this. Parliament isn't just saying our own thing here today. What the public wants from us is to find a solution that will protect us from a fire that will protect us from the fact that these conflicts will grow and that we can't stop them. Our duty is to find a way to stop them. Therefore, as I say, sanctions are a policy instrument that we should be doing as an overall strategy, which will result in us reducing the peace of the conflict and leading Ukraine to make parliamentary elections, looking for ways to implement these parliamentary elections, for example by offering to the pro-Russian separatists to also hold the local elections that they demand to join with those parliamentary elections, and thus finding a way to create a new political representation in Ukraine. Those are things to talk about. So, do you understand? - in addition to the strongest possible procedures, we also need creative diplomacy, which really helps to find solutions in this situation. Otherwise, we may fit into swamps that are hard to get out of. I'm sorry I got carried away, because apparently I was a little touched by all the talk we don't know about. Sorry about that. Otherwise, I was positive, and I wanted to contribute to making sure that the debate here was correct and that it really wasn't black and white.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u19	Thank you, Minister. Another registered priority is Mr Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u20	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, KDU-ČSL welcomes the fact that the Chamber of Deputies is particularly concerned with the dramatic situation in Ukraine at its meeting today. I may be a little surprised to join President Filip's appeal that it should not just stay with Ukraine, that we should not just be European, but we should also be more interested in things in the world. And it's not just Israel. There's so much tension and evil in the world. For example, persecution of Christians in some lands of the world is outrageous, barbaric, criminal, but it is quite far from us. I am a little sorry here in this regard that some important committees, such as foreign or defence committees, are somewhat less expressing themselves on these dramatic matters, where I think the public is expecting some clear positions, clear expressions or messages. Now I will take a few words about the situation itself, although much has already been said here. From the Prime Minister's mouth, if I heard correctly - today we have a third meeting, if I don't say so exactly, I apologize in advance, but I felt it was said that Russian soldiers were leaving Ukraine. We heard from various sources a few days ago, or we could read that "who knows if any Russian soldiers in that Ukraine are there at all, if anyone doesn't see it"? Or that we want evidence. I guess I don't have to discuss it any more. You know what I mean. On a variety of stories, that perhaps some individuals, like Russian soldiers, were accidentally lost there. I myself, for one thing, am very committed to diplomacy and to seeking a peaceful solution, and only then, and really after careful consideration, to some further steps. But we know from history that this isn't always enough. Often these diplomatic negotiations and efforts simply fail. I respect that the view of conflict can vary greatly. I am here honestly discussing this issue with people really different, whether philosophical, religious, political orientation, especially with university professors, but also with Ukrajinec themselves, and, of course, I am looking at the whole issue with my political and historian angle. I understand that some are clearly talking about the Russian invasion, the Russian-Ukrainian war. Others call it civil war, this conflict. And there are those who say we can see the features of both. In any case, with our historical experience, we should not overlook how a sovereign state is deprived of its territory. I do not want to accept that it was said when it was the 10th anniversary of accession to the European Union, directly from the mouth of the President of our Republic, that Crimea is apparently lost. Yesterday, Krym, tomorrow donbas and the day after tomorrow, we can ask ourselves how it would go. And these problems, of course, are not just about Ukraine, but also about other, other countries. Yes, Ukraine is a colossus, a colossus on clay legs, which actually records its long-term unstable situation of aggression, whoever it is. But if we have any other solutions, if we reject sanctions, I am surprised that somebody did not work out with such a really effective plan long ago, so it would have been realized long ago and maybe everything would have been fulfilled and we wouldn't have to sit here today and actually discuss anything at all. Therefore, personally, I and my colleagues from KDU respect the clear and understandable position of Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, and in this respect I find it to be an inappropriate, disproportionate, inadequate statement from the Úsvit movement in particular. The content and arguments that have been raised here, and I do not want to be related, have aimed directly at those who have demanded tougher sanctions, without any other but, I consider it so weak that I will not deal with them in more detail or respond to them further. I would really like peace to return to the European East. I seriously doubt, however, that this will happen somehow by itself or by condescendingness or suddenly by the good will of President Putin. As far as the Czech Republic is concerned, if we do not want to be the weakest link in the chain, our attitudes should be understandable, unambiguous and determined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u21	Thank you. The next priority right is Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that the chairman of the KDU club came before me, because it is easier to follow up on this, today has been said. The Prime Minister said it is good that we are debating this issue here and that it is not the first time in the Chamber of Deputies. That's right. However, it has always been proposed by the Civil Democratic Party either alone or in cooperation with colleagues from TOP 09. Once again, the government has not come up with the idea of discussing this with the opposition in Parliament. Yes, well, you helped us, you included the point when we designed it. Today, if I have good information, the agenda for this meeting will be approved and others will have the opportunity to express themselves in the debate, not only those who have priority rights. I think our basic position has been summed up by our President, and I would like for the Foreign Minister not to say it and to interpret it, not to translate his words from Czech into Czech, because many of the things that the Foreign Minister has argued with, Mr Fiala simply did not say and certainly does not agree with. Then I'll give specific cases of this, I'd say the incorrect debate and the incorrect argument, I'll make. I'm more interested in responding for our club to some performers' performances, and I have to say, it's not a joyous listen today. We heard the essay exercise of one of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies, then we heard, in my opinion, the ideological speech of the functionary KSČ from the 1980s, and we heard the defense of the Prime Minister. I heard repeatedly that he didn't want to sign a blank check. I quite understand that sentence. I have two specific questions, maybe three. Prime Minister, who asked you to sign a blank check? And who else was supposed to sign it in Europe? And they all refused to sign it, or were there any statesmen who signed this blank check? After all, we have criticized and criticised public speeches and the questioning of sanctions before the negotiations. We did not question at all and, on the contrary, recommended that any comments or disagreements of the Czech Government should be discussed on a diplomatic level. The Secretary of State is blaming us. And we didn't say anything like that, we didn't want to, we don't think so. All right, if the government has any comments to clearly articulate them in the negotiations with the allies. However, we found it pointless to tell and announce in advance. And that's what President Fiala said we were trying to be somewhere between, that we couldn't choose. We've also heard that sanctions don't work. Let's try to tell which sanctions. These were several waves and economic sanctions were introduced at the beginning of July. Even then, we said that the statement by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic that the sanctions would not cost us anything is simply not true. It can't be that sanctions don't fall on the person who declares them. That's just not true. And it must be said that it will always come down not only to the person you put those sanctions on, but also to those who apply sanctions. We've been pointing that out since July. So it's not that we don't realize it or that we don't point it out. Today is - and I think we're all happy - a truce. I think it's the result of the sanctions. We never said again, as the Foreign Minister said, that there should only be sanctions and that there should be no diplomatic negotiations. On the contrary. We have supported and supported diplomatic negotiations. And there's been a lot of them! At least we know all the official ones, the ones we know from public sources. And perhaps they are going on, and certainly there are negotiations going on that did not appear in official sources, and that is a good thing. We just said that it weakens the position of the Czech Republic of such public questioning. Let us remember the parliamentary debate on this land a few months ago about Crimea and before that about our participation in NATO. And I am very glad that the Prime Minister published an article in the American magazine in which he made a clear statement on our allied commitments. Really, and I'm not saying it ironically, but I'm serious. But here, when we discussed it, there were sentences: We do not need strengthening NATO in our part of Europe, we are against it. Today, sentences are falling: we support NATO's expansion and engagement in other parts, even in the eastern parts of Europe and in those states that form the eastern border. And we appreciate it and support it again. It just came down to our words. We could have said it together and agreed on it in March or March. I think that, in general, Europe has taken the fact that Crimea is Russian. Period. There's no question about it anymore, or at least I don't know that there's been a debate. And I agree with Prime Minister Mihola that it just isn't normal. President Fiala again said that we are protesting Russia's actions and violations of international commitments, and that this is not an anti-Russian position, but a protest against their actions on these issues. And he clearly declared specific media agreements that Russia is violating. So the story and our attitude are far from black and white. I want to support Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek's good man. I was really touched by the Prime Minister's sentence: This is a problem in Ukraine, let the Ukrajinec solve it. And I think that we, who live in the Czech Republic and who are proud heirs of the Czechoslovak Republic, should be allergic to such sentences and should not say that such sentences were called to our ancestors by European leaders in 1938. Where this led, you can read yourself in many historical novels, but also in many already published official diplomatic anals today. And that's the thing that we're criticizing, the orbs, like caution. We're with you, but we're not, because what if we said it too loud, what could happen to us? After all, the key is the security of our country and our citizens, and we clearly see the key in cooperation in the long term, and in this we are proud and valid members, with NATO. Even the Ukrainian crisis won't change that. We've been talking about this for a long time and a long time. I'm glad the Foreign Minister spoke of other threats that threaten us. Again, I want to say that we in ODS articulate them publicly. Our President has spoken about the danger of the Islamic State in the past days and weeks. Now that we're talking about whether any terrorists have taken over the state, I'm afraid it's not the first time. Or do you think Pol Pot and his guys who carried out genocide in Cambodia weren't terrorists, but they were just comrades who cultivated a cult of personality and committed some party mistakes? We think the debate is good. It's a good thing that we're leading her, even though I say that sometimes we're sad about what's going to happen here and what incredible statements are falling. Sometimes we feel that history repeats itself and that what our ancestors and our predecessors may have said in foolish hope and what Europe as a whole has then paid for, that in these days, weeks and months it often repeats itself again from many mouths. And we were actually saying one thing - that we should be solid allies, a solid part of NATO, that we should be determined that if we agree on this, we will apply sanctions at the cost of losses, because there are simply no sanctions without losses, and that we do not publicly question possible procedures for both Europe and NATO. However, this does not mean that we are not to negotiate and we are not to try to apply our views and our positions. I really object to such a unilateral view that we support only sanctions and do not want a diplomatic solution. None of this is true. And I would like to ask those who do not know here for what reasons they are really very critical of what is happening in Ukraine as a national and similar way to appreciate the words so that they can imagine situations where you lose a piece of your own country so that they can imagine a situation where there is a regular war going on in a part of your country. And we can talk about whether he's civil or not. We ourselves witness the hypocritical language and pretend to believe it or many face it. In Crimea there were no Russian soldiers, never - so that after a few weeks a number of Russian soldiers would be officially honored by the President of the Russian Federation for good service in Crimea. Well, that's crazy. He can't pay both together, he's paying one or the other. We wanted to ask the government to be a strong and stable ally, not to question our position with its obstinate expressions, so that by being that strong ally, it would contribute to making our citizens and our countries feel safe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u23	Thank you. Now, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has been given priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u24	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I have one suggestion. I am logged in, as I have informed, is the Minister Mládek and Minister Stropnický. We all have priority rights. If this continues, only those who have priority rights will be discussed and we will not get to a proper meeting. I would like to propose that we withdraw our applications with priority rights with the ministers - I have talked to them - so that we can vote on the agenda of the meeting shortly thereafter, and then we will sign up and continue the discussion, but other Members who cannot speak now could also report. So if he had agreed to this, and if other Members with priority rights would also respect this decision, I would also like to say that we are giving up the Mládek of Stropnický at the moment, and we would have signed up with priority rights already within the newly opened and opened meeting of the Chamber of Deputies if its programme was approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-10-ps2013-015-01-000-999.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. Since all three logged in with the priority right of their application withdrawn at this moment, I do not register anyone who would be logged in with the priority right, and before we vote on the entire 15th meeting proposal, I will do this by checking you all out and asking you, colleagues, to re-enter the system. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 15th meeting, whose proposal was made on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda set out in the application, so it was not possible to propose any amendment or addition of the agenda, so it is not possible to extend the approved programme. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the agenda, as it was designed, to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm ending voting number two. Members present are 119, 80 for this proposal, against 11. This means that the draft meeting has been approved.
