ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-004-087.u1	87. Government report on the development of critical unemployment in the Czech Republic This item has been interrupted in the general debate. I have more speakers for the general debate, so Mr Laudát has been signed up. I'm asking if he's present. [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-004-087.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to respond to a few things that have been said here, not where I applied properly at quarter past nine or half nine when the point began. That's where you saw after it took place. I don't know if it makes sense for the Prime Minister to present this report and present it here, and then vanish somewhere. I admit I'm very embarrassed. I'm not saying that my performance is crucial and important, but I take it as contempt for the House. Maybe Mr. Babiš could hear some of the same thing to stop him from saying all the nonsense and outrages he's spreading around here. [[12.20 hours]] However, you have seen several Social Democrats here several times with a serious face. The real one is they made fun of the unemployed. It's not a funny topic for me with this sex clip at work. You know, they're there, they're individuals, and I don't know if there's two or three percent of them who really don't want to work, they'll never work, I think they pretended to work before 1989, not that they did. But then there's another category of people, and I assume that's what we're talking about. Take this: you have children, you go to school, you go to school, you have to provide them socially, financially, economically, you want to buy your own housing, you borrow them to reach them, and you lose your job day after day. If it's the Social Democrats, the young - that's if the young Social Democrats did it, it's kind of gross, and unfortunately the black prospect for our future - it's gonna come to a laugh that they're really picking up a major problem in a ticklish way. I don't care. To your own point. I think that Sobotka was quite the speech, which undoubtedly was prepared by someone who rules statistical data, so he filled that point because he was supposed to report to the government on the development of a critical state of unemployment. I would welcome them next time to be instruments and measures that will lead to a reduction in unemployment. Unlike the left, I don't have any ideas, or I just don't think that the fact that the state could help more significantly, even though we've just done it like most of the so-called developed countries in the world, that the state or the public sector is already a major creator of gross domestic product. I do not know how much it is in the Czech Republic, Western democracy, which is a model for social democracy, has outrun us considerably. The result is a huge unconceptionable debt, which, when we calculate the economic forecasts and the ability of the economies of those states to repay those commitments in the future, will come out quite clearly that they will not have much chance unless they give up on the model that they may have implemented for twenty-thirty years. Mr. Sobotek - he was talking about stopping the construction of highways and roads. So the only government in the year when the highway in the Czech Republic did not work was the social democratic government of Miloš Zeman. Don't take my word for it was 1999, or 2000, but one year it went like this. When Mr Sobotka pointed out the past, where a relatively skilled organization called the Road and Motorway Directorate went, I will say one single name - Michal Hala. And I hope I don't have to tell anyone who remembers anything. The President of the ODS - apparently we are broadcasting at a similar frequency - mentioned here that you actually took care of the increase, although perhaps not, employment, 500 people you fired, 700 you accepted. The question whether the employees of Agrofert had previously been unemployed or friends of various new potentials, who are building up very quickly here, so - but that has already been said here. Unfortunately, social democracy, or the Prime Minister, doesn't even make sense to say it about Babiš, he's really out of line, so here he is unable to offer really concrete rational steps. What he's offering is - and the finance minister is starting to carry unofficially the first numbers, so far, are simply increases in mandatorial spending, zero support for creative capital, other and other things. When Mr. Babiš spoke here, and where you've done it, I'm not surprised when a post-November communist cadre starts to talk about 20 years after 1989. It doesn't surprise me, and it just may reveal more of its true face in the faith of passion than we would have thought. One of the shots he made here was really unique. He was talking about just where the water supply got. He was actually referring to water distributors and water infrastructure. He was talking about water regulation. I'd just like to point out that as a memorial... You know, it was Špidlův's government that forced the state-owned owner of Prague to accept the privatisation of the water and sewer network operator, and of course the irony of fate is that the person who was brutal in the committee - across the spectrum - was the Prague representative of Paroubek, for example, and another and hand in the hand of Květa Kořínková and others we defended Prague, that it was an outrage that, because of the four billion, Prague would simply take away an important instrument of critical infrastructure. No, they didn't care, they wanted it. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Špidla is Mr. Prime Minister's big advisor today. And what the hell he didn't want, then there was some weird committee to carry out this privatization, and by the way, there was a Jan Kasl in that committee behind the city, the future leader of the ANO movement, it's gonna get worse. So it's just to... It's just that life brings really weird things. As far as Mr. Babiš is concerned, I'm not surprised. While he's showing off, he's doing it on the budget committee, he's doing it here today. He's really out of it. I'm not surprised if there's an assistant counselor there. I don't think Mr. Michl-- either he goes there and advises properly, but his weekend internships, I don't think there's a solution. I'm saying, a lot of things have been said here. When Mr Holeček said that this is not the way a politician behaves, the Minister of Finance has already explained that he is not a politician, but an outraged citizen, I do not know from which price category, I can imagine that he will belong somewhere with this rhetoric more and more among bloggers, which, no matter what you say, will pop up blogs, virtually within a few minutes. Internet contributions to this, so a great tool for the bottom ten thousand, maybe five thousand people in this country. So I confess that I do not see the reason why we should support the motion for a resolution that we take note of statistical data. I would like to know that the coalition should say frankly whether it will increase the number of unemployed by highlighting the tradesmen, the rhetoric of one of the parasite ministers. Whether you will allow the rapid onset of innovation by adapting the Labour Code so that what is done in the best countries in the world can actually be done in full standard in terms of innovation cycles. Whether the Minister of Industry and Trade will finally start supporting financial instruments together with the Minister of Finance to create innovation. As regards the construction of roads and motorways - and, of course, we will probably be the subject of a media attack when we ask for an acceleration in the purchase of land for proper discussion in the Economic Committee. On the other hand, I repeat what I have said here several times. In really modern economies, large, pompous projects do not produce that effect. And I say again, and I would like to ask that somebody from the government, from the ministries, I wanted to do it in the past, bring an analysis when a rolling highway to the west of Ostrava, which economic boom occurred there, was built. I note that this would be quite appropriate if the R48 were not east of Ostrava. [[12.30 hours]] I would like the next point to go in a dignified direction to address the real problem that Mr Kováčik has raised here, and for the next point, that the government should finally stop talking about floscule, which will not change anything, but come up with real plans to regulate legislation and help us actually become a modern economy with the possibility of flexible job change as needed by the market. What does an employer have to do if he doesn't have a job and he has to keep people, so the effects are absolutely clear there. Fears and rather not accept than receive and release again. I quite understand that I have a completely different opinion from the left, but the left, plus Andrej Babiš, has no opinion at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-004-087.u3	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr Laudát has exhausted the subject, the time and the audience. I am now interrupting again the Government's report on the development of a critical unemployment situation in the Czech Republic, because we have a fixed vote on 12.30. So I'm launching a block of electoral points.
