ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u1	27. Věra Jourová, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 26/ - Second reading Mr Petr Gazdík, Vice-President, shall make the application for the appellant. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues. We come to one of my views from the most fundamental bills that this House will discuss. The draft amendment of the House's Rules of Procedure Act substantially changes the functioning of this House in the sense that its main objectives are to extend the deadline between second and third reading so that we as Members always know what we are voting on, especially in the case of laws that have dozens of amendments and thus improve the legislative process. Furthermore, it introduces a guarantee committee and some details in the Rules of Procedure which have not previously proved to be successful. I would like to thank, in particular, the President of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Jeroný Tejc, and the work of the Constitutional Legal Committee and all those who attended the meetings of the Constitutional Legal Committee, where we tried to find a compromise on the basis of proposals from all the Members' clubs represented in this House, and we came to an option that is acceptable to all. I would like to thank you and I believe that you will accept the second reading of this bill with understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u3	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. At first we ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Supervisory Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 26/2-6. I ask that the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mr Marek Benda, take the floor. [[Mr. Tejc is reporting to the microphone.]] Oh, so there's been a change. I'll ask Mr. Jeroným Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u4	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to represent Mr Benda as rapporteur, considering that I can shorten my speaking time and therefore no longer apply to the general debate as I have done. The Constitutional Committee discussed the matter at its 16th meeting on 27 August 2014. He advised the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal as amended by the comprehensive amendment. The proposal is relatively extensive, it has 16 points. I would also like to thank, at this point, as President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, all colleagues who have participated in this agreement. I think it is the first time that all seven parties have agreed on such an extensive amendment to the law, not at the cost that the law does not solve anything and does not change anything, on the contrary, the change is revolutionary. And I would like to introduce you very briefly to the committee resolution, which therefore amends the Rules of Procedure Act. The first thing is that there is an obligation to process the minutes of all committee meetings more carefully and in more detail. It will simply not be possible for what had been often criticized in practice, not in everyone's case, but in some committees, that it was not possible to find out who had tabled a specific amendment, which substantially modified the functioning of the law, or that it was not possible to find out who had voted on such a proposal at the committee's meeting. Everything will be recorded and I think that this is an important stimulus for the transparency of negotiations. The second important thing is that the time will be reduced when Members of Parliament, without prior rights, can proceed to changes in the programme. A five-minute limit will be set, which, in my opinion, is enough to make a proposal. But this limit will only apply in the other days of the House meeting, not at the beginning of the parliamentary meeting, there will be unlimited limits. A great debate was also held about when the bill can be taken back from the petitioner, whether it is the government or a specific group of Members. We agreed to extend the possibility of a disposition with a proposal until the start of the debate at third reading. Thus, any petitioner who knows that the bill is burdened with a number of amendments that are not sympathetic to him or even expressly opposed to them will be able to withdraw the bill, contrary to the current regulation, before the general debate begins. The greatest contribution, in my opinion, is the introduction of a guarantee committee. Perhaps I would ask Marek Benda, as the author of this idea, to speak subsequently in the general debate and to explain how this committee should work so that I do not delay my intelligence report for long. But this guarantee committee will make a clear contribution to improving the legislative process so that the committees can re-examine all the amendments received by the Chamber of Deputies. These are the most fundamental changes to the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I would ask you, by this way, to make this proposal, possibly in the third reading, supplemented by other proposals that can be read today, successful because, in my opinion, this change is not only necessary, but also a change that will help the Chamber of Deputies to create better laws and less often receive laws returned from the Senate for legislative technical reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, and the rapporteur of the Supervisory Committee, Mr Roman Kubíček, take the floor gradually. [[After the moment when nothing happens:]] So we have a representative of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee here? [[After a while:]] Come along, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u6	Hello, Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues. My intelligence report will be very short. We have turned to the decision of the Constitutional Legal Committee and we support all the proposed changes that will go through to the third reading. At present we can say that this is in line with the requirements of the State reconstruction, i.e. that 167 Members in this The Chamber of Deputies has signed this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u7	Thank you. And now I would ask the representative of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development to comment. [[After a while:]] Then I'll ask you, Mr. Ambassador... Is there an objection to Mr Klaška speaking? [[The reporter tells the President his name: Carbon.]] I'm sorry. Ambassador, I'm sorry. Read the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u8	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, alternate as alternate. I will read the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee on this matter. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 13th meeting following the reasoning of Mr Mgr Stanislav Berkovec, Member Ing's intelligence report. Lukáš Pleticha and after the debate recommends The Chamber of Deputies has 26 to discuss and approve, as amended by the resolution of the Constitutional Committee referred to in the Chambers of Press 26/5, the Committee's rapporteur hereby authorises the House of Deputies to inform the resolution and instructs the Committee Chair to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a general debate. It's a real point. First of all, Mr Václav Votava's factual comment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I merely wanted to respond to the rapporteur, Mr Tejc, who spoke about the guarantee committee. I have no problem with the amendment being made at second reading to go back to discussing it directly to the guarantee committee. I don't have a problem with that. But it will take time, time for the guarantee committee. And now I'm sure I'm not just speaking for the budget committee. It will certainly also be a problem for other committees, and there will probably also need to be an adjustment to the schedule of work of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm just pointing it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u11	Thank you. Now, therefore, with priority rights in the general debate, Vice-President Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u12	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as one of the 46 authors of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I agree in principle with the proposal we have in press 26/5, as tabled in the comprehensive amendment of the Constitutional Legal Committee. However, allow me to amend Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, tabled amendments which are inspired by the practice of this House's meetings. For most of the proposals, I also do so on behalf of other Members. The original proposal was made at the turn of November and December last year. In that time, we have gathered enough experience together to enable us to make the House's negotiations more effective, simpler, more understandable for our voters. I think that we now know much better how action and decision-making can be more rational, how and in which it can be more transparent, how to spend unnecessary time by formal obstructions and purposeful abuse of the Rules of Procedure. We know where the Rules of Procedure have the greatest weaknesses. These are not political in nature. They can at any time complicate the life of the House of any Party. They can slow down the effective performance of the House as a whole. That is why the petitioners are Members regardless of the coalition or opposition. Therefore, as part of the clarification and completion of the text submitted, I propose in point 3 of Section 54 (1) of the Guidelines. 6 to insert the sentence after the second sentence: "The application may be submitted within 30 minutes of the opening of the Chamber's meeting date. The admissibility of the proposal submitted in a reasoned case shall be decided by the House within 30 minutes of the opening of the date of the meeting of the House.'; The mentioned paragraph in the amended form correctly proposes a change in the limitation of time and number of repeat performances due to the smoothness of the preparation of the House's agenda. My proposal sets out the emphasis on limiting obstruction especially at the beginning of the meeting before its programme is approved and during it. It doesn't prevent changes to the program. Furthermore, I would like to specify § 58 para. 2 on the text: 'The Members shall only report to the debate in writing, either before the beginning of the meeting with the President of the House or during the meeting with the President until the end of the debate'. It's just a little text editing. In the first sentence, the word "only' is added. And the second and third sentences are deleted because of excess. Since only written applications are expected, I suggest that part of the second sentence be deleted in Section 58 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3. Furthermore, I think it is appropriate to lay down, directly by law, for the various types of debate, that is to say, a general debate and a debate in detail, a limitation of the speaking time of the speaker, while at the same time creating the possibility for the House to decide, if necessary, in particular if the situation, in particular the complexity of the material, would require it, to extend the speaking time. Section 59, par. 1 would read: "In both the general debate and the debate, the speaking times of speakers, including speakers, to whom the word is given at any time, may be no more than ten minutes. The House may proceed to this point without debate on the extension of speaking time. The limitation of speaking time shall not apply to Members responsible for bringing the opinion of the Members' Club on the matter.'; The logical follow-up to the proposed amendment is, in the same paragraph, a limitation of the number of Members' speeches, while determining a specific number of speaking speeches should also serve as an incentive for Members to concentrate exclusively on the material being discussed and to effectively make their speeches more effective. Section 59, par. "The speaker may speak on the same matter not more than twice if the House does not act without debate on a higher number of speakers' speeches. It's not really a dramatic change. In the original version there were two performances as an option, in this proposal there is a possibility of more performances than two. The most extensive and important text is our proposal to supplement § 86 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The purpose of the supplement is to introduce a so-called legislative trail in the process of adopting draft laws. This is a definition of the circle of persons who directly participated in the preparation of the draft law, in addition to the appellant and those who, directly or indirectly, could have influenced the form of the bill in favour of their own or someone else. We're talking about all kinds of lobbyists here. It is not at all decisive to what extent individual persons participated in the preparation of the law or tried to influence it. It is equally important what their motives were, since the presentation of their list is mainly aimed at gaining awareness of who and how they participated in the drafting of the bill, and they themselves have imagined the circumstances under which the bill was prepared. [[said: subconscious]] It's not about avoiding lobbying. It can't be prevented, and it's a natural thing. But the point is that our decisions are transparent and open, so that they are closed to various backstage games, influence and speculation. I believe that this is all of us's concern, and party jurisdiction doesn't matter. Our proposal is in line with constitutional order and international obligations. I would also like to stress that the proposed amendments will not reduce the democratic rights of Members, in particular the rights of representatives of the parliamentary opposition and the right to freedom of parliamentary debate. Representatives of the opposition are legally reserved the same space for parliamentary debate as those reserved for representatives of government parties. Dear colleagues, these are simple changes that will make the House's negotiations more effective and transparent. It will also sometimes reduce the purpose of manipulation of the House's actions and reduce the corruption risk. It's a type-of-fall change, but it's a necessary change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u13	Thank you. Then sign up for your amendments, Madam Vice-President, in a detailed debate. I have here one factual comment by Mr Pavel Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this proposal, which has just been read, has been dealt with in very detail and had in mind the Constitution of the Czech Republic, at least we, what is a parliamentary democracy above all - yes, let us laugh, but let us bear in mind that this proposal can very seriously endanger parliamentary democracy itself, the free right to speak on the issue, the free right to seduce political parties on the basis of the constitutional principle of free competition - and where else than here on Parliament's floor? That is what parliaments in parliamentary democracy are for. If you, colleagues, want to turn this honorable congregation into a law factory, nothing else but a company that will produce laws like Bata's exercises, then let us support this proposal. If we want to maintain parliamentary democracy, if we are referring to the fact that we can all be in opposition once and also have the opportunity and opportunity to argue with someone repeatedly about a matter or a principle, then please consider this proposal well whether it is worth support at all. In my deep conviction, it's an unconstitutional proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have two more factual points here. First Mr Jandák, followed by Mr Gazdík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, because in front of me - and now for some of the ironies of fate - here the representative of the Communist Party defends the principles of democracy, which are essentially put on the line by the middle-right representative of the party. Because let us remember that, on the one hand, by adopting a service law in this form, we have liquidated some of the benefits of democracy. Now we're getting to the next part, we're going to wipe it out completely. All we have to say here is that Pepa is allowed to talk to Láďa. Nothing else. And after that, there's gonna be a novel where they say what they're allowed to talk about. Please, where are we getting to? This, what I've heard, I'm sorry, colleague, it was television footage from North Korea! Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u17	Mr Gazdík wants to speak with priority rights. For this reason, I would prefer Mr Plzák, who is reporting with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would recommend to all those who are talking about threatening democracy to look at it, and it will be done by the Parliamentary Institute, as is the case in the parliaments of the surrounding countries. In that case, we would be an island where the only democracy in all of Europe exists, because in all the surrounding parliamentary democracies, it is a little different and even more rigorous. So please don't call for any democracy to be threatened here. Let's look at the surrounding countries where they probably didn't really take it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u19	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u20	I will not repeat what was said, but in the opening speech, both the petitioners and the rapporteur said that unprecedented political consensus was found. But one faction of the seven torpedoes the match. I say for us that if there's no consensus on the fundamentals and other things, if there's no consensus, then we just won't allow the vote on this proposal. And for example, the proposal that I have to report in writing - so imagine, running normally, is the last logged in and in the last sentence offends the opposition. I don't have a chance to run. Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. And that excellent idea of how we can only speak once, which means I can't respond to a speech by, for example, a government MP, unlike 17 ministers who can always respond because I've already spoken once. So instead of discussing it, you want a sequence of monologues. And that North Korea, it's kind of like it's typical. That means every comrade writes one performance. Always the right side - the comrades applaud him and the other can no longer respond because he has already performed. I know you're gonna tell me that the House can graciously decide that we can perform the second time, but it's most of it. We've been arguing over priority rights here. And it's kind of funny from the government's deputy that he's talking about obstructions in the approval program. We have a 17th meeting - the opposition hasn't done it once. I don't know how we're gonna define it, obstruction of the program approval. Every morning, you guys changed about 25 points of the program today. I could call it obstruction, that's all. So there's no way this is true. It is an attempt to limit the rights of the opposition, it is an attempt to silence the opposition, it is an attempt to simplify. When the minister comes, we'll all be here waiting, and when the minister comes, we'll vote for something. There's supposed to be reports and contracts today since 11:00. They're not. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time, Mr. Ambassador!]] I'm sorry. I'm reporting again with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u21	Okay, I'll put you in line. So now Mr. Daniel Korte has his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to warn my previous speaker, namely the entire House, that the word parliament is derived from the central latin parlar, and that is to speak. An attempt to reduce speech in the Chamber of Deputies is an attempt to restrict parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u23	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, here you can see exactly - Mr Babiš has gathered some people and they have found themselves in an area with no respect for democracy, no knowledge of any kind, because what some here - I am not saying that everyone - there are exceptions - you are showing, it is absolutely incredible and this is what you are putting on the crown! If you, who have a deficit of basic ethical perceptions of democracy, freedom, come up with this, I warn you that this is one of the major reasons that we haven't really started yet, that's what you've done here in the summer, and we're gonna block Parliament. Because the fact that you have a lack of knowledge, a lack of ability, and you come up with this, so that your Prachař, Babiš and other performances that they're doing so far on the material, real plane brings the laws to which there are then 50 amendments, because they crash on the material functioning, I think it's absolutely incredible what you're doing here! And this is what you're really putting on the crown here! So I really welcome and thank Mr Grebeníčk, thank my colleague Jandák and others. [[Messenger. The blacksmith gestures astonishingly.]] And I hope most parliament tells you categorical no, and don't try this here again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u25	Yes, I'll just specify. He was Mr. Mr. Kováčik. Another point of fact is made by Mr Birke. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u26	Thank you very much. I'll try to be very brief. I'm always here to give the mayor a view of the city. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear fellow Members, I am a little terrified because if this proposal goes through, and I understand that the petitioners do not yet have one mayor, and I assume that their attempt is to have a lot of them after October 11th, I am a little afraid that this practice will be transferred to the city council. You're not gonna let those people talk in there, are you? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have a large number of factual remarks here now, so I'll always read you in advance so you know who will speak. Mr Fiala, Mr Stanjura, Mrs Němcová and others, is now registered with Mr Fiala, Mr Stanjura, following him. So you're in line. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I am also concerned and offended by this proposal, but I will try to be factual. If Mr Plzák here has called on us to get some work done by the Parliamentary Institute, I would like to draw attention to all the fact that we have the material of the Parliamentary Institute in February 2012, where we are talking about the time limitation of parliamentary debate, and it is certainly good to read it for this debate. But my point in the matter is how to read it and how to interpret it. If you want to read only the number of minutes and the types of restrictions that exist in individual parliaments, you will make a big mistake and you will not understand it. What needs to be added to this and what is not even in the material is the overall form of the legislative process. That's very important. And if any debate is limited in some way, it may mean that the law is being discussed in a completely transparent manner elsewhere, and the debate is running. That's one thing. [[11.50 hours]] And the second - and that is very important. Parliaments differ in their type. Some have the character of rather discussion parliaments, some are very working, depending on political culture and many other things. This must also be taken into account in the comparison. And the last point - and it's not negligible at all. It is extremely important in Parliament how large it is. Just another organisation of work, another organisation of discussion is in parliaments that have two hundred, three hundred members, and a completely different one is in parliaments that have six hundred and seven hundred members, where the logic of the matter comes from a certain limitation of time. I would very much warn about some unilateral interpretation, but I would especially warn about this proposal, which will move the quality of our democracy and our political culture back to where I would not want to find myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u29	Thank you. Next is Mr Stanjura, then Mrs Němcová, then Mr Martin Novotný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u30	So I think it always applies when you have two options that are excluded, either one or the other. Although I know that politically popular and politically successful is to be at the same time for and against, because you satisfy many. I'd support one rate, but today I'm gonna make three. And in an hour, the best two. As an example. However, either there is a political agreement and we honor it, or YES is to say that it does not conclude the agreement and that it does not participate in the agreement. There can't be anything in between. Either it's a deal or it's not. Both are legitimate procedures. But I can't pretend that I made a deal with the other clubs, and then, in a fundamental way, read really things that we fundamentally disagree with. When we were discussing the Service Act, we made it clear that we would use the Institute of Obstruction quite exceptionally, and we clearly appointed the Act on the Rules of Procedure at the negotiations directly, and we already told the Prime Minister and representatives of all government parties a few weeks ago that if there was an attempt to restrict the rights of the opposition, and that is all there is to it, we will simply reach out to the instrument. All you're trying to do is limit our rights. The arguments are wrong, flat, and I could give worse adjectives. But decide for yourself and say if the deal that was made really applies on your part or not. For us, I say we keep the agreements we make.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next in line is Mrs Němcová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think that there is one more aspect to this proposal that the Vice-President has put forward. I think that he was very simply summed up by a colleague who said that we imagined Parliament as a factory, a running belt, where laws would be planted every second, and that is why we are supposed to operate here. We have always held debates over the Rules of Procedure in the past with regard to the fact that it is for all representatives in the Chamber of Deputies to come into agreement, because otherwise this basic law of ours will not be able to practically help the functioning of the Chamber of Deputies. And if we are to look at the changes, as the Vice-President put them, by some kind of optics, the fact that Parliament is simply not a law factory. Parliament is to weigh very sensitively which law and when it will adopt. Its basic role is to create conditions for our citizens so that they know what they can expect, not that these conditions will constantly change them, to enter every day with some change in which not only citizens are orienting themselves, but also specialized lawyers for individual fields. I think from this perspective too we must look at what we will do with the changes in the Rules of Procedure. And once again, I warn against creating an illusion for citizens that we here will direct our actions so that we will have five, ten or thirty laws every day. It's not a good service to our citizens. We have a pharmaceutical scale over every law, and we have a month or two to hold on to before we say we're cutting now, and now it's starting to apply to citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u33	Thank you, Madame. Mr Novotný, Mr Schwarz and then Mr Laudát, have now made a point of fact. Well, I'll beg you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u34	Mr President, my colleagues and colleagues may well follow up on my colleague, Birke, who has mentioned the experience of self-government here. Those of you who have worked or worked in them know that in recent years at the level of municipal councils and municipalities, even the Institute of Replies from emerging citizens is increasingly in the order of these representatives. This is the opportunity to respond to developments in these congregations by two floors, which our democracy even from a number of unelected - not representatives of the people, but directly from the point of view of participatory democracy, let's say. The option that this will happen - and often with the verbal support of the ANO movement, which says that it is the self-government that should be more open, we will be closer to people and so on. etc - that this will happen at the level of cities and municipalities at the lowest level of democracy, and in this Parliament we will take this right to even elected representatives of the people, it is absolutely incredible, scandalous, and I would very strongly protest against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u35	Thank you. I see a certain degree of impatience on some of you who are logged in with a factual remark, but believe me, you're all registered exactly in the order you signed in. So be patient, Mr Schwarz has now made a point of fact, then Mr Laudát and then Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u36	I'm so glad I'm registered somewhere. Thank you. Hello, colleagues. I haven't been registered yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u37	You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u38	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, co-workers, I'm just gonna take this real quick. It's too bad it doesn't work the way my colleague Němcová said it, 'cause that's how it should work. If it worked that way, some people who were taken by Babiš, I wouldn't care where Babiš took you. Babiš didn't take me. So that didn't hurt me, but it's just sad. But you guys are all talking from the left or the right about democracy. But we haven't done anything else. This club didn't show, gentlemen and ladies, anything but the fact that he didn't like something here, so it's just that some of the people that Babiš here took somewhere, as you often say in Agrofert, were elected by some people, and so it sits here. And so they democratically put their proposal in the House because they don't like how the House works here. So stand up democratically when you vote, and don't say we're people. And maybe the other people are gonna say, maybe it's gonna speed up, it's not gonna speed up, I'm not saying whether it's right or right. We just showed you exactly how democracy should be and what the citizens of our republic have seen here? They saw that we're really alone here, the only ones who want to make a difference, even me, don't granny, please, as you like to say, who want to make a difference, and you all think about how democratic we are. And you know what I liked? I have many friends among the Communists. But in order to have to listen to the Communist here say that he is for a strong parliamentary democracy, and the other - Mr Kalousek, I think, through Mr - is slowly defending himself here as he insults him the week before last, and we all have to listen here, instead of really changing and doing what Mrs Němcová said, if it worked that way, that people shouldn't be surprised, stabilize the country by laws, not changing them often, that's exactly what we would want. So please, just democratically. Let's try to vote then, raise your hands all you want, and that's it. That's all we wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u39	Thank you for your time and I will now ask Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u40	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to Mr. Kováčik, of course I honor the copyright of his performance, so thank you. It's scary for me - and for my colleague Schwarz. But there has been a consensual proposal, and it is normal for you, through Mr President, that then even the Vice-President of the House will come. You told people during the election that you would just block or cut off the democratic rights of the minority, the opposition. You know, strong politicians, strong personalities, if they're sure of their performances and their knowledge, they admit debate. But here you're doing what happened here on Tuesday, for example -- you're coming in and you're doing your own reconnaissance. We didn't do it in the summer, you did it here. We have done nothing but raise our hand for one proposal from the Social Democrat. We vote according to our conscience. And what happened next was your business. So please... But here you can see the value of your deal, your word. That's what scares me. And it scares me that the Vice-President of the House -- she's the one who's gonna come up with this proposal! That's just the second point. Please learn something and face us with the power of argument, the power of ability. For every job - and politics is also work - there are some qualifications. I don't go to a nuclear power station to run it, either, if I don't have a degree in science, and I don't have practice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u41	Thank you. Mr Martin Komárek, after Radim Fiala, Mr Beznoska, is also registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am twice duly logged in, and I am only taking a point of fact so that you can all see that, in principle, properly logged in is discriminated against. That's just unfair. Here's a feast of preferential rights and factual remarks that people don't know. And there's no rules, and that's not fair. This House works unfairly against so-called. subordinate Members. I'm really only taking that point of fact to point it out. And I'm going to say one more thing, because here behind this rhetorical counter, there are other decent, infamous people who are literally turning into vicious animals. Even if they don't use dirty words, they just insult other people. They insult Members for the YES movement. I mean - through Mr President - Mr Laudát. Yeah, that's not before the mandate and the immune committee. I wouldn't push anyone, either, I wouldn't turn anyone in, but I would like Mr. Laudát to realize that even here we should observe the rules of decency, gentleness and modesty. We just don't become superhumans behind this rhetorical counter, but we should talk normally. And if you want to insult us, say it to my face at a committee meeting, and then I'll deal with you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u43	Thank you. Mr Radim Fiala now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would, through Mr President, before I say what I wanted to say about the speech of my colleague Komárek - I have priority rights and I stand in line honestly and I am about the tenth person to get to the speaker's desk. So I don't think anyone here is being discriminated against by this. Now, about what I was gonna say. I understand, of course, your proposal. I understand it as a man who has been in politics for some time. And I understand that because every government coalition in the world would want her to do her job, what she said to the voters. That's why she won the election. And she'd want those counter-discourse contributions to be as little as possible to just make the laws she's got planned out to the end, the way the Ministry's gonna process them. And there's no need for anyone to talk to them. But unfortunately, the roles will turn over in time, and those who propose it today will once again be in opposition and will say: But we also have important arguments. We have important facts about the laws that could contribute to making these laws better, but we're not going to get to the point, because unfortunately, we limited it a while ago. So think about the part turning around, whether we want it or not. That's how it goes all over the world. That is why I think that we cannot limit the debate in any way. Another reason for not restricting the debate is that the debate is conducted publicly in front of the citizens. It's run on the Internet, it's run on TV programs, and citizens see the arguments of both sides, and the government coalition, whoever it is, and the opposition, whoever it is. Now, my proposal, of course, which I don't want to vote on, but I wish you'd think about it. If we want to limit the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, we should only limit it by increasing the level of political culture. And we must cultivate political culture. Thank you. [[Strong applause for members of the Dawn movement.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u45	Thank you. Now with Mr Beznoska, Mr Urban after him, then Mr Okamura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u46	Thank you for the floor. Good morning. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to take a brief look at the ideas presented here by colleague Birke and colleague Martin Novotný. I also have a long-term presence in the communal sphere. Democracy grows from the bottom. We also allow citizens to appear in our city council. And we have also fought many long battles with the opposition represented by President Hamáček in our town. Nor did anyone in the city council ever dream of restricting, limiting or interfering in a free democratic debate by representatives in any way. And since this honourable House should be at the top, the pinnacle of democratic conditions, I consider the proposal made by my colleague Jermanová very dangerous - from two points of view. On the one hand, for the very substance of this proposal and, on the other hand, for the very focus and time when it timed, because colleague Schwarz responded briefly and said: "We are the ones who want to change it." That's the message to the media. That's gonna be the dangerous message, 'cause it's gonna disqualify those standard political parties again. Believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u47	Thank you. Now, Mr Urban, after him, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, through the Vice-President - I respect Mr Komárek - but my colleague, where were you when your President Andrej Babiš insulted me from this counter and on the television screen and lied? Where were you at that moment? Why didn't you teach him?! So don't give us any morals here, please! First of all. Two. I remembered when the motion for a change to the Rules of Procedure came in here, what Michal Kraus once told me. That was a Communist MP on the Czech National Council, I think. He told me how it went. When you wanted to perform, you had to write your contribution in writing, submit it to the committee that approved it, and then told you "you can get off" or "you can't get off" and how long it should take. If you wanted to vote against it, he told me, I couldn't. I had to lock myself in the bathroom once in my term. But only once. I don't know why I remembered these suggestions of what Michal Kraus was telling me at the time, but it just came to my mind. The Rules of Procedure will not change culture in this Chamber of Deputies. Believe me, I don't. It's about everyone's behavior and attitude. And we can change the Rules of Procedure into hallelujah, and that culture really doesn't change. That is why I would like to ask the Vice-President to consider her proposal after all. Perhaps this discussion will contribute to a change in political culture, but certainly not the proposals put forward by your Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u49	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Okamura and Mr Adámek after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have gathered quite a bit more here because, in response to Mr Komárek, although I am the political party chairman and I have the right of priority, I did not even speak until after you. And I'm patiently waiting here about 20th in a row. So I don't understand who you're talking about. But at least our chairman Radim Fiala and I were both performing after you and waiting patiently. So I don't know what priority right you're talking about here, especially when there's no case of factual remarks anymore. Well, that's just so you don't put us in one bag with the rest of them. I don't know who you meant. Then there is talk of political culture that Vice-President Jermanová's proposal is to increase political culture. When I evaluate here for ten months in the House, I have been waiting here repeatedly for your ministers who, when they had their point, didn't come here and 200 people, so aside from the members of the ANO, 150 people were waiting, or others, for the ministers of the government. Or when I asked the government ministers here publicly in front of the cameras to answer questions, and it wasn't just me, and they were present, they sat in front of the public and they didn't want to comment on the current issues of the present laws, or even on some points they weren't even present at all, even though they relate directly to those ministers who have it in gesture, and they were points according to plan, nor were they substantially shifted. [[12.10 hours]] That means, if we're talking about political culture, then I'd like you to sweep up your own doorstep and not be afraid to answer the points that we're discussing here, whether it's opposition or coalition, there were relevant ministers here to answer the questions that are here, not to be afraid to answer in front of the cameras, because you know that this transmission goes on Czech TV at night. Well, let's all move it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u51	Your time, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u52	Well, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u53	Thank you for respecting time. Mr Adámek and Mr Plzák after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u54	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, I want to respond, and I do not want to be attacked, accused of being rude. [[unintelligible]] You know what's interesting? That you have not noticed that the right and left sides of this hall are completely identical in the view of, say, what the Vice-President has said here. Yes, Mr Schwarz, through the Vice-President. I mean, maybe it's that, and it's already been said here, I'd like to elaborate, because all of us here have had to go through our side, and you can have an opinion on it, whatever, in some way. We started from scratch. I've been a municipal politician since 1998. Same on the right side. And that, I'm sorry, no offense, that's just what you miss. That means, not that Babiš picked you up somewhere, but you're from the vast majority of people who, of the overwhelming majority, yes, didn't deal with communal politics. Maybe that's why this particular democratic deficit is here. And I don't want to keep up the time... In listening to the Vice-President's proposals to me, and I very much appreciate it, I would like to stress this - just to say that I may already know how to run the state as a company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u55	Thank you. Now, Mr Plzák, with his point of fact. After that, Mr. Uhlík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I don't know if I started it here, but I want to explain my first point of fact. I really had to respond to the two previous speakers, because the context of their speech showed that we are actually an island of democracy in Europe when you look at how the other parliaments work, and we want to destroy the island. That's why I reacted. I agree with my colleague Fiala. Let's talk about it. I agree with my colleague, Mrs Němcová. But what did I see here? I've seen the thing here that all of a sudden, when it was the Civil Service Act, it was said, "It won't pass, we have mechanisms where it won't pass." I looked at the mechanisms, and I saw that Section 95 states what can only be discussed or discussed at third reading. If we're just following it, it can't be blocked. I was told by President Filip that these are such agreements that have worked here for years. Recesses at the club meeting for two hours. It's kind of a deal. Otherwise, the House should vote on the suspension of the meeting. It's not written anywhere that the club chairman will just take two hours for a meeting. That's all I wanted to say. Otherwise, my colleagues, when I was watching because I thought to myself, those people who wrote the Rules of Procedure were not stupid, they had to know what they were writing about and what they could prevent. Why did the law on church restitution pass when it is possible to block the House like this? Why did you let that happen if you were so upset about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u57	Thank you. Mr Uhlík and Mr Hamáček after that, with the de facto Mr Uhlík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u58	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, a few comments and the fact that I was directly at the meeting of the subcommittee of the Constitutional Legal Committee, so I will just specify for some of the colleagues what we agreed on there. And now I'm talking to my coworkers on my right. We were discussing, like, 17 to 18 points, if we agree, we don't agree. We agreed, I think, according to my notes, on eight points. The others we said - if colleagues have the urge that they really want to enforce them in the House, they'll hand them over here in person. So that was the deal. So if anybody was talking differently, now colleagues mostly on my right, they were misinformed by those colleagues who were on the subcommittee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u59	Thank you. Now President Hamáček and then Mr Jakubčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u60	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider this debate very serious because it concerns the law governing the conduct of this honorable institution. And please let us have it in constructive debate and, if possible, without emotion. Of course, I don't deny anyone and none of us the right to propose anything. But each of us also has the right to say his or her own thing, and he or she has the right to comment on it in the vote. This is how it should be and I hope and I believe it will be. My personal opinion is widely known, and I've presented it in the media, but I'll repeat it. When I was talking to my very first speech here, I said, after almost all of you gave me your confidence that I would like Parliament to be a workshop in which legal standards will be created, but what I wouldn't want to be a plantation over which a slave-whip whip whips. That is why I cannot accept proposals to limit the rights of the opposition. I am willing to debate and probably also vote in favour of things that will be specified, will make the House more precise, but I will never vote in favour of restricting the opposition's rights to speak because what is also true in the caselaw of various European judicial institutions - the opposition has the right to say its own, but then the government majority should be able to decide. If this works, we will significantly improve Parliament's perception in the Czech Republic, but we will not improve it by putting the opposition in a cell and letting them in pieces only. I really can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u61	Thank you. Mr Jakubčík is next in line, followed by Mr Laudát and then Mr Stupčuk. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u62	Mr President, fellow Members, it is very difficult to appear after the President of the House, because his wise statesmen's words were something that was just about the best that has been said so far. I totally agree with him. I would only like to see Mr Komárek through Mr President - I have a citizen's ID, where I have written Jakubčík Igor. I don't have a veterinarian's license in front of me, where it says "Azor Dog" or "Minda Cat." So I don't feel like being an animal, I feel like being human. And I think that as part of your performance, you managed to do that thing that you were here trying to make animals out of all of us. But I think everyone here has the ID, and there's all people here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u63	Thank you. The next is Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Stupčuk. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u64	Thank you for the floor. I would have responded to a colleague of Komárek. I don't think I'm insulting anyone. I consider it essential that if there is an agreement across the political spectrum, it is held. Let someone from social democracy, KSČM, TOP 09 and ODS say who I've betrayed here in eight years. Have him log in and say specifically here, or how I negotiate with President Sklenák. And to you, respectable members of the ANO movement. Try to do something in a month or a month or so you'll be here for a year, try to make a cross-section of how you did it -- you put it on billboards -- what you brought in, what you helped people do, how they built highways, how it's going, and try to reach into your own conscience, and what you've done here. And get an analysis of when there are the most accidents in the House. Yesterday, I'm gonna stand up for some businessmen, start talking about regulated funds, and then I'm personally attacked. That's how it is. What's your Prime Minister doing here? What does he say in the media? We're thieves, we've been mopping this country, we've robbed it. Do I notice him? Try to think about yourself fair and square. I'm thinking about myself, too, and sometimes I miss it, and I'm not saying I don't. But try to think about how many accidents occurred in the House because of you. And we're not taking your word for it. We're just defending you from lying to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u65	Thank you. Mr Stupčuk, then Mr Adámek and Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Vice-President of the Supervisory Committee, I feel obliged to add - it did not say - that this bill was discussed on the Audit Committee and we did not support it. On the contrary, we have proposed that a working group be set up across the political spectrum represented in the Chamber of Deputies and that it should deal with this. [[12.20 hours]] I think that one more moment has escaped this debate, and that is that it is not really a restriction on freedom of expression, but that it is, in principle, something even more important, and that is, in fact, a factual commitment to the legislative initiative of us legislators. And I would like to remind you that I am the primary carrier of the legislative initiative, and that we should therefore weigh very carefully all the adjustments to the Rules of Procedure that could complicate or bind the possibilities and efforts of the legislators to present us with bills and, where appropriate, amendments. Provisions on this, for example - in the section I suspect 63 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (d) - that the amendment should include, where appropriate, a detailed description of the implementing rules, I consider it insane. This is a task worthy of executives, which has an extensive administrative apparatus. So, in my opinion, these are proposals that are completely detached from reality, affecting each and every one of us, an individual, a Member who is the holder of the fundamental right with which he comes to the Chamber of Deputies. And that is his supreme authority to propose laws and to make amendments. And let us not let this right be limited, let us defend it, because this is what creates the sovereignty of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u67	Thank you. Now, Mr Adámek, then Mr Černoch and then Mr Okamura. Mr Adámek, with his point of fact. Isn't it? So I'm rubbing it off, and I'm gonna ask Mr. Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u68	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would just like to define myself on the words of my colleague Komárek. With all due respect for him, with all due respect for the YES movement, I don't feel like a vicious animal either. And I'm not Mr. Laudát's attorney, but I don't think those words were fair. She wasn't fair. There are emotions in it sometimes, you want to express yourself, you want to defend yourself. I think we've all been there. And the moment those emotions came -- there was a banging on the table, there was a stomping. It's just part of some expression of your own opinion. I don't think it's right to refer to someone who's a vicious animal, because if we want to show some culture in the future, some amount of culture, I don't think those words were meant to be heard today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u69	Thank you. The next is President Okamura, then Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u70	Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I pulled the chart from July 17th. It was the first meeting of the subcommittee for the Constitution where we discussed 17 proposals. A total of 17 from transparency, I would say, the House's Rules of Procedure. The Dawn Movement never once opposed. That is why I here reject the populist actions of the ANO movement, which suddenly present opinions here. We weren't against either of us. It's a black-and-white table here, which is why I say very seriously: we have agreed on something, found a compromise, and now here in the House, because it's before the election, here to make some suggestions, it's not right. And I'll get back to the news. We had 80 amendments under the Service Act. So what we would like, and in order to make the negotiations more flexible here, so that it is really quick and transparent and we are not stalling, so please start working properly. Government proposal - 80 amendments, including amendments by government Members. Otherwise, I'd like to say time-limit. Even the YES movement here suggested limiting the time to speak during the approval of the agenda of the meeting. Well, I'm sorry, but I'd like to comment on the program, which was the only YES movement that suggested this in the table. But I would like to express myself democratically when approving the agenda for the meeting. You would like to limit me even the time when I would like to comment on the agenda. It is true, then, that when we proposed a meeting on church restitutions, you shouted all over the place about how you opposed restitution, and then you covered it up, that you didn't really want to discuss it. She promised it'd be at the September meeting. It's not in the program at the September meeting. So these are the procedures that are very unstandard. Therefore, do not kindly restrict to me, as party chairman, the space where I want to express myself, because I have a responsibility to our almost 400 000 voters. They want to hear our views on individual laws, and please do not put these undemocratic proposals here. I am strongly opposed to this! Against the dictation of a party, because we all have the right to express ourselves. Thank you. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u71	Thank you. Mr Koskuba, then Mr Nykl, then Mr Stanjura, is now on record. So I'm gonna ask Mr. Komárek, right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u72	Well, thank you. I am just a brief response to a highly esteemed colleague, Mr Urban, through the President. Excuse me, I'm not Andrej Babiš. Don't blame me for what Andrej Babiš says. Deal with him as a man with a man, please. I'm not responsible for him. To those who have opposed the term, I will say that they do not listen, or they have flaps on their ears, for I have said, I will not quote exactly that decent quiet people are behind this counter for some reason becoming miserable animals that offend others. I insist, unfortunately, that's true. Read the Stenoprotograms, it's just like that. The next point is very short. To those who say that we restrict the rights of the opposition, I will say, First of all, not us. It's a parliamentary proposal. And if you want to ban amendments, you limit everyone's rights. And it does not restrict the rights of the opposition to set the speaking time, that is to say, it sets the same rules for all. There's no way he's taking up the opposition's power to reconstruct. Of course, anyone who has read the Rules of Procedure only from a speedster will find out, because any action can be blocked as the opposition threatens to do, he has the right to do so. I think democracy is a sacred thing, and the opposition's right to express itself, too, but it does not accept this parliamentary proposal by Mrs Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u73	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Koskuba and then Mr Nykl. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u74	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, before the time comes, the discussion will come a long way. But I think there's a moment when it's appropriate to talk. Ladies and gentlemen, the members of YES certainly have the right to present their proposal, and we, even if we are a little surprised, will be able to decide on it. I do not want to touch any of the previous speakers at all, but we are somewhat like members of the standard political parties, and I see that the standard political party is also becoming Dawn, they really sat on top of their colleagues, because after this discussion of dough before the elections it will be clear how the members of the standard political parties behave, how we agree, how we look at the classic democratic process. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not ashamed of that, yes, now you have a member of the standard political party standing before you, because I will not raise my hand for this proposal. But not because I hear that I'm a political package that doesn't do anything here, not because I hear that somebody's here for people, and we just sit here in the blab for money. Ladies and gentlemen, a rookie always has a problem with entering democracy. It had Public Things, I see that's the way it went yes. I won't even regret it when it comes to the same goal. But consider what you're doing here. It is nice before the elections, but the agreement and political culture simply belong to this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u75	Thank you. Before we continue our negotiations, I'll read the notes that came to me. Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes for today's meeting since 11.30. Furthermore, on Thursday from 5 pm and on Friday for the whole day, Mr Karel Černý apologizes, today from 19 pm to the end of the meeting for work reasons by Minister Helena Válková. At 12 o'clock today, Mrs Markéta Wernerová apologizes. On Thursday from 15.00 to the rest of today's day, Mr Martin Plíšek apologizes for the meeting. Today between 18.15 and 22.00, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes. And today, between 14.30 and 18 o'clock, Mr Vlastimil Vozka apologizes for his work. Let's keep going. Another point of fact is made by Mr Nykl, then by Mr Stanjura, then by Mr Gazdík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u76	Good morning. I will not defend any side of this dispute here, I just want to say that something must take place in this House. The way the sněmovna works, I don't think it can satisfy anyone. After all, it is not normal for the Center for Public Opinion Research to make 26 careers according to prestige. In order to make 0 to 99 points, and wonder for the world, I have the advantage, as a doctor I have the 99 points - and at the same time as a new MP, I am in the very last place where I got 25 points. It's not normal for a cleaning lady, with all due respect, it's an important profession to have 35 points, roughly as ministers. We cannot then use the expression, as Mr Beznoska used, this honourable House. That doesn't add up at all. You see, this experiment we've been making with the newcomers that we've come here to say that we have to do something here. It may be flawed, our attempt, but if there are people who like the way we work here, that's a big surprise for me. Let me give you an example. Ukraine's solution. After all, what we did after a few hours could be summed up in two sentences. We are all condemning what is in Ukraine and asking for compliance with the European Union. That could have been done in two minutes. We would all sign up for this, and the public would say yes, they want to work on reasonable things here, and we will end this important thing in two minutes. There are countries where speeches must be done by memory in Parliament. There's no art of reading paper. I'm used to speaking from cardiology conferences abroad, but I don't read it from paper. Anyone who writes to me and I read here for 30 minutes can do that. I believe everyone here can read decently, but if we had this point, it would have turned out how it is. [[Time warning]] Think of our attempt as an attempt to make things better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u77	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjura, Mr Petr Gazdík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u78	I don't have any papers. I don't read the papers as usual. Your amendment was read from the papers and read the line by line, but it is so marginal. Before I get to what I was going to say - if you think it's a normal sentence, when Europe is facing perhaps the greatest danger since World War II, that we need two sentences, we really don't understand each other. A really serious threat to security, our civilization, our country, and you just need two sentences. Maybe just to make the law of our minister, we don't care about the rest. I signed up for something else. I'm a champion of freedom of speech. Everyone here has the right to say what he wants, and we shouldn't tell our colleagues that they're not supposed to say it or not, but we can criticize it, argue it and say that I'm wrong or that I have a better opinion. I will stand up for Mr Komárek. He's got a right to say what he wants. I mean, it was kind of my guess, but he's got a right to be. I don't like it when someone wants to file criminal charges for some policy statement. Let's make better arguments, convince the voters that the politician is not good, but let's not involve the police and some criminal law that someone said something. I think that's completely wrong. I am also in favour of Members making amendments. And it is not true that we are restricting or criticizing that someone has tabled an amendment. The amendment was not filed by a Member. It was filed on behalf of a club that made a deal. If you don't understand the difference, I understand. If a political agreement is concluded and then the individual Member submits his proposal, there is nothing wrong with that. But I see a problem when the club makes a deal, and then, as a club, he makes an amendment. And against the spirit of what was agreed. It's actually the proposals you've already come up with in the process that you haven't convinced the others. I know it is nothing new, that the first amendment was read, I think, in April, if I remember the date of our amendment well. That's the problem we're missing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u79	I'm sorry, your time is up again, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Mr Gazdík, Mr Lank after him, Mr Chalupa after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u80	Dear colleagues, I think we're getting to the heart of the poodle. That core is the word efficiency. Many of my previous speakers here have said that they want the House to be effective. What is the effectiveness of the House? Is it that we're going to discuss these laws here on the treadmill, that we're going to approve one by one here, depending on what minister or our chairman of the MP club will say to us? After all, this discussion is the best evidence of this, and I consider it effective because each of us can have an opinion on this matter. laudát here agrees with Kováčik during this discussion, Gazdík agrees with Okamura. I mean, that's how any of us can make up our minds. That opinion will not be created by moving quickly and by approving what our party secretariats have told us. After all, each of us promised at the Institute that we would follow and work for the citizens of the Czech Republic according to our best knowledge and conscience. [[emphatically]] Not by the way someone tells us. If I want to pass a good law, we all have to make our own views of it. And it is born in a debate that we should not restrict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u81	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Martin Lank and then Mr Chalupa. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u82	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I really just want to be honest with you, because I just want to make this clear a little bit. You want to make this House more efficient and faster by limiting the number of performances and their length. This should not apply to the holders of preferential rights, which according to my opinion, even if the brief experience in this House is worth most of the extensions that are here. I still have a few hours of debate in my memory that was going on here before the program was approved, and in these debates, we ordinary, simple fly-killers have no chance of intervening. And you want to make this a standard! Well, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u83	Thank you. Now, Mr Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u84	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Just for a little while. From my friends, I know that this House, or what's going on here, is playing people at night when they can't sleep or when they're working, and they're having fun. It's a show. What they see here, what we're doing here, they see as a show. It's getting more popular than Mr. Šíp's shows. Why is that? Well, because what's going on here with taxpayers' money, that's basically just something to look at as fun. Second thing. There's talk of efficiency. We have committees to ensure the effectiveness of the House's functioning. So, if there are any issues going on, I suppose there's a debate going on in the committees, and then what's going on here, we're essentially saying again about what we discussed in the committees? For what? Three. The culture of negotiations. Something came up last night about us being a cop party. If this is a culture of behavior based on your perception of ethics at all, then say hello to God. Four. What's interesting is that this morning it fell on the part of colleagues that they want to discuss the law and that there's no need to talk here when the Prime Minister spoke. It is interesting that they, by means of obstructions and other instruments that we want to address by amending the Rules of Procedure, actually make it impossible for laws to be discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u85	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Černoch, with his point of fact, then Mr Volný and then Mr Janulík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u86	Thank you for the floor. I just want to go back a little bit more on the same opportunities. She's not entirely true, because when you imagine that there's a majority that comes up with a proposal and knows in advance that the proposal will pass because it's just that most of them don't have to perform at all. While the opposition wants at least in some way, or is trying to convince in some way that it may not be quite so well. That's one thing. Second thing. There's talk of efficiency all the time. This morning: Effectiveness is also that if we agree that the House will work in some way and those people, because I think there's another job, regions etc., they'll arrange something, and all of a sudden in the morning everything is different, it's also not quite effective. And I don't mind being here, I'll be here by morning, I'll be here for 14 days. I really don't care because I take this job seriously. But if there's an agreement and there's something you're counting on, then at least a little bit of it should be kept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u87	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Volný, then Mr Janulík, then Mr Koskuba.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to sum up this debate a little bit. Yes, we were counting on such a reaction, we didn't expect to be supported by anyone. I'm glad this discussion has started. I'm a little sorry about my colleague's contribution, which absolutely euphorically and incomprehensiblely compares us to the VV and wishes us an early ending. As a coalition partner, I was very surprised. So I guess it wasn't good. He puts it in our mouths that we said here that someone is a package that just sits here. Please, we really didn't care about anything other than that we can't understand why there's a reading from books, a two-hour discussion. We do not want to interrupt or restrict any discussion, we do not want the opposition to have the opportunity to show itself. That's what bothers us. We're a little short on this. And we are aware of the price of our time, but also of your time. If with this discussion and this scream of ours in the dark, we can at least dampen these absolutely unnecessary discussion posts that last two or three hours and read a book here, we didn't do it wrong. Thank you. . [[Applause from the YES benches]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u89	Thank you. Mr Janulík now, then Mr Koskuba, then Mrs Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm the only one with the real democrats and yours through Mr Laudát: Mr Babiš hasn't taken me anywhere, I've been elected by the people. If you are such democrats, please note that we have been elected. We weren't taken anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u91	Thank you. Now, Mr Koskuba.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I use factual remarks to respond to the performance of my colleague Nykl, whom I liked, whom we met. I understand that as a rookie, he must be out of his way. I would like to address him through you: Yes, colleague, I was shocked here three years ago. Let me remind my colleagues from the current opposition that I was the one who shouted behind this counter that if they kept changing the program and made a mess of it, that when the situation turned around, we'd give it back to them, maybe. But I didn't know we were gonna give it back exactly the same way we did yesterday and today! I'm sorry, I'm ashamed again! The fact that I'm coming to work, and you're talking about the company, and I don't really know when or how. Don't tell me you've all had time to study it. That means we're no better. Let's cultivate this discussion. And what Igor said here about Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on Ukraine has been long and so on, but I have heard, among other things, an interesting contribution from my colleague, Pavel Blažek, who has impressed me, that he has come from today's opposition, and I am bowing down to him. And you know what's weird? Nowhere in any newspaper - unfortunately I don't own any, I'd order the editor - but I haven't read about this interesting post in any newspaper! And where else is he supposed to say it than here behind this counter? Therefore, even for my previous speaker, I am just warning you: Don't make mistakes like they did Public Affairs. Before we sat here, you forced us to sign a coalition treaty rather undemocratically. [[Attention, time's up.]] Thank you. It's just to the edge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u93	We now have three factual points, Mrs Havlová, Mr Stanjura, Mr Laudát. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Gentlemen and ladies, I will speak mostly to the gentlemen now. I have two things. First of all, I will not support in any way any restriction on these talks. And secondly, I must repeat again: More women into politics! Take an example from us! Has anyone ever heard of us attacking each other here? At least we respect each other, and that doesn't mean that if we don't agree with each other, we're attacking each other here. And I also don't remember any of the deputies speaking for more than ten minutes. Thank you and learn!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u95	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u96	It's the MP's fault, a few words. Not on the subject. First, to the edge for Mr. Chalupa. We're just discussing the law. I know you don't think so, but we're discussing the law. What we called for this morning is happening. We are dealing with a law that is important to us and mediated to our voters. And it's the only law that applies only to these people sitting in this room, or they should be sitting here. And that there's no government, that's okay, because that's the only law that shouldn't be government! Completely executives should not prescribe to Parliament what the Rules of Procedure of the House should look like. And I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Volný, through the Vice-President. Speaking of the obstructions and the books who read them, to be specific. We've been here almost a year, and the opposition obstructions have been showing off for four hours, and no one here has read the book. [[Testimonials from the benches.]] That was different. No, wait, it wasn't a book, it's inaccurate. And if you say so, Mr. Kalousek read a book for 66 minutes on October 18. Maybe. And don't tell me that you're here after a year - after a year - adopting a law that you want to prevent obstructions when the obstructions lasted four hours that year and we announced them two weeks in advance so that the government coalition could prepare for them. Then don't confuse people! It's kind of a dinner party. You're operating on something that's not here. You want to push something that isn't used here. It's just not like that. That's all it is. If we really want to be factual in our comments, I'd like to be specific and not throw us... You say, "Don't put us in a bag with Andrej Babiš!" We don't have anything to do with him, we just ran! Many of you said that today. So I say: Divide and distinguish between opposition politicians and opposition parties. We're not screwed either. We're not on either side, and they're not all the same on that side. Each of us is one. So please, let's be specific.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u97	Thank you. Now, Mr Laudát. Then, Mr Petr Adam and Vice-President Jermanová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u98	Thank you for the floor. I want to comment on Mr. Chalupa when he was talking about the show. I confess I envied him quietly. He beat me significantly, and he got to Malostrana's corrections a few years before I succeeded. I just did a language training here once, or a corner about the difference between Schwanz and Schwarz. And it's been repeated. So I can be quietly envious. As far as political culture is concerned, let's take a look behind my back here. Poor Minister Herman, otherwise it's customary for them to sit here... sorry, I apologize to Minister Brabco. Coincidentally, one of the most hardworking in this government. So I'm sorry, there's two of them sitting here, and there's Minister Němeček somewhere. And an inmate in the crowd. [[Minister Chovanec is in a bunch of debate.]] Excuse me. [[With laughter. Laughs from the O.R.]] So maybe some ministers would find themselves, but with the exception of Minister Brabec, they're not your ministers. [[12.50 hours]] [[Some Members are standing in front of their benches, a bit tense atmosphere.]] So where they work, how they work, I don't know. In the morning you saw that perhaps the House should have the right to the presence of Minister Prachař. I really don't want to insult you, but make a review for yourself. I don't want you to yell, but try to think about what you've done this year. And as far as efficiency is concerned. You know, in limiting the freedom of debate in Parliament, I think it is not entirely fair to present anything that has not been agreed on, that there will be consensus and that it is quite tolerable for both the coalition and the opposition. First of all. A similar blockage is that someone purposefully, even if he wins elections at some point in time, changes the fundamentals of the Constitution and the fundamentals of electoral laws. That is why, for example, there is a blockage that, with the amendment to the electoral laws, it must be confirmed not only by the House, but also by the Senate, and you cannot overrule the Senate. [[Time warning]] So please, I don't mean to insult you, but try to think about yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u99	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark, Mr Petr Adam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u100	Hello. Yes, I love many of you very much, but my opinion is that the election campaign should be done somewhere else, really, other than here. What's going on here, you're disparaging the state you're part of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u101	Thank you. And now Vice-President Jermanová, with his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this very valuable discussion on the agenda that we are discussing here, on the Rules of Procedure. Not to mention the personal insults that appear here. I just regret to say that I am sorry that we work in such a spirit that we abuse, overturn the things that are presented here. However, this confirms the need for a change in the Rules of Procedure in any direction. [[There's a laugh on the right.]] I want to say one thing for the YES movement that we hold our agreements. I have acted as we agreed on a subcommittee for the Rules of Procedure, where we agreed on a comprehensive amendment. The other three amendments are submitted in agreement as individual. Anyone who opens the amendment will see my name. The first amendment was introduced into the system at the beginning of the year, so we are so clever that we have been doing the election campaign since April. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u103	Thank you. Mr Tejc has now signed up for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I have waited patiently to be the first to join the general debate on this counter. I found out I couldn't see it, so let me use it, maybe take advantage of the factual remarks I've applied to. Firstly, I must confirm the words of Vice-President Jermanová that the agreement that was made at the subcommittee meeting, where representatives of all parties were present, was aimed at drawing up a comprehensive amendment that would support all parties. And if anyone has a proposal that does not support the majority or all parties, then they submit it individually, with the logical chances of such a proposal for approval being less. To the efficiency of the negotiations. The effectiveness that has been mentioned here will be best demonstrated if we approve the comprehensive amendment, because the committees will renegotiate all the amendments. And I think those who have something to say about it, that is. people who are on their committees, who understand the issue, will give opinions on each individual proposal, thereby limiting the debate in a natural way, i.e. people will not be in need of what they say on the committee and of what will be reflected in the committee's position, so often speaking at the House's meeting. And I have to say, I took advantage of that time. I am thinking about the hour I have been waiting for my speech, how we will deal with the press conference of all political parties, where we are to announce a fundamental consensus on the Rules of Procedure. I believe we can do this at 1:30 and make a deal. And I would not like to see a comprehensive amendment, which is fundamental and perhaps revolutionary and can make a significant contribution to the better functioning of the House, fall under the table on the basis of this debate. Although I could and could not agree with a number of speakers, I appreciate all of them, I appreciate that we have the opportunity to perform, without limit, almost. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u105	Thank you. This has exhausted all the factual points and will continue the general debate. I have here with priority the right of Mr. Vice-President Gazdík - he takes back his application. In that case, Mr Tejc, you are duly enrolled in the debate. [[He's not interested anymore.]] I can erase you, okay. Next in line is Mr Komárek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u106	Thank you. After about an hour and three quarters it came to a properly logged in. This shows the way we're discussing things here. I want to be very friendly. And I'm very friendly. Who knows me personally knows that I'm a completely unenforceable person, and even this racket doesn't turn me into a vicious animal. But please, ladies and gentlemen, let us really follow elementary logic and common sense. I'm gonna say a few points, and I don't think I'm gonna finish the speech by 1:00, I suppose we'll be interrupting the meeting at 1:00, so maybe I'll follow up on it when we follow up on this point from the same place. But it's been said and it should be heard again. Here's a proposal to structure our debate. It's a proposal, and it needs to be repeated, which doesn't limit anyone's rights. It does not restrict the rights of the opposition. The opposition still has the opportunity, if all the Members speak, to explore all the way to the hallelujah. The opposition doesn't take the right to explore. No rights are taken from the opposition. The rights of members of the coalition and the opposition are being somewhat reduced. A certain structuring of the debate is necessary in all meetings, and most companies do not allow a debate where people do not talk to each other, arguments are not convinced, but they say their political positions. And people who say their political opinions, and that doesn't have to be companies, that can be schools, philosophical, peripatetic debates, we want some rules everywhere. And people who speak for themselves, lecture others, insult them - and I don't want to name former President Václav Klaus, but I'm already naming him, so there's nothing to be done - they're making everyone else uncomfortable. And unfortunately, we're so uncomfortable with ourselves. I think that this discipline, which, as I say, does not restrict the opposition, but restricts our ego - and it is true that ladies show a little less ego, although, through the President, I must warn the honourable colleague that many ladies here also perform very forcefully and attack other people, this time I will not really name it - so we simply do not want anything that would hurt anyone to take any rights from anyone. We want to structure the debate. I mean, not the club YES, but the MPs headed by Jarka Jermanová, who are proposing it. And I'm applying. I am even more radical, and many of you have heard that I consider that so-called. priority law is an undemocratic matter and is to be abolished. That the priority right divides Members into two categories: the category of sub-members and sub-members. [[13.00 hours]] It's not because I'm sick of being a deputy. I am proud to have been elected in the Liberec Region, and I am proud to be campaigning there. And I want to warn you, ladies and gentlemen, you don't campaign here. Campaign is made when you convince people in pubs and the streets. Unfortunately, because we completely demoted the speaker's counter, no one cares anymore, except for the lunatics, now I don't mean the group that let us in at 3:00 a.m. when they don't know what else to do, and they're out of all the alcohol. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not campaigning. Jarka Jermanová, I and others seriously propose that we think about this, not to work as a company or to be a plantation, not to limit our right to speak and our right to a replica, but to have a reasonable structure for our debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u107	Mr. Ambassador, you said you were counting on not finishing your speech. It's 1:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u108	Yes, I'm counting on it. Thank you for listening. If this goes on, I'll come back here and continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u109	Thank you. It's 1:00. From one o'clock to six o'clock, Mr Gabal apologizes. I'm interrupting the meeting at this point, and we'll continue at 14.30 hours through interpelations. Thank you. Have a nice afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-005-027.u110	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to open an afternoon meeting. The next item under our programme is
