ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-007-005.u1	5. Members of Jaroslav Foldyna, jeroný Tejc, Michal Hašek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and on the amendment of certain laws (Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies), as amended by the Constitutional Court ruling, published under No. 177/2013 Sb. House print 144/ - second reading Mr Jaroslav Foldyna is to present the application for the appellant. Or a colleague of Tejc? [[Yes.]] Okay, Mr. Tejc. Before taking the floor, I will say that, at first reading, we ordered the draft to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 144/2. I would ask that Mr Radek Vondráček, who is the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, take the position at the rapporteur's table. Now the chairman of the committee, Mr Jeroným Tejc, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-007-005.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to discuss today's second reading of this press simply because the time is running, and if we want the purpose of this bill that we have tabled to be fulfilled, that is to say, the extension of the time limit for the control of assets issued on the basis of the law which we simply refer to as church restitutions, then I believe that the bill should be approved at this meeting, when we have already missed the time limit of the first few months of discussion, when it was decided to issue, however, it is now decided in many dozens, hundreds and thousands of cases of approval of agreements, and I believe that the capacity of the public authorities at this time, and I think that it is not sufficient in many cases, that all agreements would be properly verified, so that in individual cases, that it cannot really be issued, that the property that should not be issued under the law should be issued. And of course, we all know that it is no longer possible to bring this process back after the release. So I dare ask you for the rationality of today's negotiations. We mít 18.28. I know that half an hour to discuss second reading is not always a long time, but I think it is not even a short time, and I would ask you very much to discuss the second reading of this bill today in order to really address this issue. And I will not delay what the Committee's rapporteur will probably mention, which means that we have also dealt with a possible problem of later effectiveness than some deadlines have ever ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-007-005.u3	I thank the draftsman's representative. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Radek Vondráček, to present his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-007-005.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am merely stating that the constitutionally-legal committee has managed to keep the debate in focus on the original proposal and really focus on the purpose of the proposal, namely the extension of time limits. I can say here that, following the justification of Mr Tejc's proposal group member and Mr Marek Benda's report, and following the debate, the Constitutional Legal Committee adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the proposal and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament adopt in this bill a change and a supplement consisting in repealing Article I (1). So much for time all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-007-005.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am now opening a general debate to which Mr Fiedler is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-007-005.u6	Good evening, Madam President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I would follow up here on what my fellow Member Jeroným Tejc said at the outset. Yes, we have a late date. And why this bill is only being discussed after so much time since it was submitted, the government coalition should go crazy on its own, why it fell through the last meeting, why we're saying it today. I understand it would be a good idea to discuss this as quickly as possible, but gentlemen, this time lag, gentlemen of the government coalition, you're on your own, so don't be mad at me! So I would finally like to take advantage of the occasion when an extraordinary meeting was convened on this issue, initiated by two parliamentary clubs and which the government coalition did not approve - the agenda for the meeting so that the meeting could take place, so that I can finally comment on what was to be the subject of the meeting. The gradual course of events gives me the truth that our request for an extraordinary meeting on this subject was most justified. The Prime Minister, the absent Prime Minister of Sobotka, then called on us to send these comments to him at the Office of the Government, and that they could be dealt with within the framework of the intercession. So after the answers I got from Prime Minister Sobotka for my questions I sent him, I really, really don't think so. In his letter to Prime Minister Sobotka answers my questions - I quote: "The Government of the Prime Minister Nečas did not take into account the recommendations of the opposition at the time, namely some ČSSD Members, that the implementation of Act No. 428/2012 Sb. it will be very complicated in conjunction with the transformation of land offices and former land funds. Our concern that the new office, to which the largest volume of applications submitted will fall, will not be able to properly prepare for the implementation of the law, has been fulfilled." I quote the words of Prime Minister Sobotka or his answer. "The proposal to postpone this transformation has not passed for two years." And so I ask the government torsion that is present here, the absent Prime Minister Sobotka: And why, if Prime Minister Sobotka was aware of this, didn't it do so when he was aware that these are terms that are not real? Why didn't the government itself come up with this proposal when it was aware of it? Why is it left to the MPs? Why did Members themselves have to initiate this when Prime Minister Sobotka, as he himself writes in his reply, knew that the terms were unrealistic and impossible? I'd like to know Prime Minister Sobotka's answer, but he's not present. I also quote from his reply: "Although the current SAO management has taken organisational measures to address this situation, it is necessary to realise that a full correction cannot take place. " The same question: If the government and Prime Minister Sobotka were aware of this, why did they not accept it themselves and do not make amends so that these things could be dealt with as required in time? He further writes in his reply: "The government of Prime Minister Nečas pushed through numerous comments from both the opposition and the professional public unrealistic deadlines. Cases that require more complex verification of property relationships require extensive search of archive materials." It's just proof of the earlier words. Furthermore, Prime Minister Sobotka said that there is a legal opinion that the amended wording of the law cannot be applied retrospectively. I am therefore glad that the rapporteur has said here that this has been discussed in committee and that there is therefore no such doubt and that these deadlines can be extended. It is also very startling for me - and now I ask the Members present to draw attention to what Prime Minister Sobotka wrote in his reply: "In some way, the procedure for publishing things is different than agricultural real estate. In these cases, it is a minority of cases, it is possible in case of successful action to expect possible additional costs for the state budget, compensation for lost profits, court expenses, etc. In this case, it must be noted that cases fall within this category where the person concerned is not sure whether the issue is to take place and refer the decision to the competent courts. In this case, such expenditure should be considered to be justified.' So let's say it's easier. The billions that come to church restitution may not be final. And Prime Minister Sobotka himself admits and admits that this state budget can cost even more money in case of lawsuits by the churches for delays. Unfortunately, Prime Minister Sobotka isn't present, so he can't answer that. I would also mention that he avoided the answer in the letter I sent to two questions: What steps are the government and the Ministry of Agriculture preparing to deal with a very significant delay, which the Prime Minister himself admits and acknowledges in the letter? I didn't get an answer to that question. And from what is happening around this issue of church property, we know that neither the government nor the Ministry of Agriculture are planning any action and they just left it to the MP's proposal. I also asked why the Government's position was neutral on this parliamentary proposal only if there were no amendments to it. I really do not understand the logic of this government's position, the factual argument, the factual reasons why to extend these deadlines. And the government makes this conditional on having a neutral position when it is aware that all the deadlines and deadlines have been exceeded and, moreover, only if there are no amendments. I have prepared three amendments myself, which are recorded in the system, and I would like to comment on them further in the next discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-007-005.u7	Thank you, too. Please refer to Mr Laudát's microphone, which is another entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-007-005.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, when discussions were held here at first reading, we asked for some meetings from the Prime Minister or the Minister of Agriculture. Neither of them are here. Of course, my view of such behavior towards churches that have suffered here for 40 years and more, decades, decades, even fascist rages enormous, seems to me to be extremely abnormal. I'd like to hear here if the Prime Minister has negotiated with the Ecumenical Council of the Church that they will wait, they understand the problems. I suppose so. The Minister of Agriculture is also God knows where he's excused, I don't know, I don't want to hit him. So we're not gonna get an answer. For this reason, let me take a break on behalf of the club, especially because of these two gentlemen, on behalf of the TOP 09 club, in the duration - how much is it? - 22 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-007-005.u9	Very well. The TOP 09 is taking a 22-minute break, and all I have to do is interrupt the negotiations tonight by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will continue according to the approved program. Have a good evening.
