ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u1	56. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the effectiveness of the recodification of private law /house print 306/ - first reading I will also ask the Minister of Justice Helena Válková to read this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u2	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, once again, in accordance with the legislative work plan, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a draft law amending certain laws in relation to the effectiveness of the recodification of private law. I'd sum up the important points like this. Firstly, there is a change in the person of the payer's fee for registration in the public register. Newly, then, the taxpayer should be the one asking notary to make a record, and the notary will be the payer of such a court fee. So this change follows the law No. 304/2013 Coll., on public registers of legal and natural persons, where it is laid down in § 108 and the following new notary permissions to make a direct entry into the public register. The draft law creates a new judicial fee for the entry of facts into the public register by a notary, or that is the new item 39 of the Law on judicial fees. The amendment regulates the process of collecting legal fees for notaries and withdrawing them from the court. The proposed regulation changes the person of the payer's fee for registration and the taxpayer will be the one who asks the notary to carry out the registration. The notary will be the payer of the court fee levied by the administrator of the fee, i.e. the court. By this regulation, register courts will challenge significantly fewer registration proposals than has been the case so far. In addition, an increase in the judicial fee for filing an application for an electronic payment order is proposed, as the procedure for issuing an electronic payment order ends in approximately two thirds by transferring it to agenda C, thus continuing the proceedings, and the main cause leading to the transfer from the electronic payment order's agenda to the so-called 'C'. Agenda C is the failure to deliver an electronic order of payment to the defendant in his own hands, and then the corresponding obligation of the court to cancel the electronic order of payment. We can therefore conclude that the applicants often submit an application for an electronic payment order precisely because the court fee for such a application is lower than in the case of an application for the opening of civil proceedings, where it ends afterwards. For the above reasons, it is proposed that the exemption, which in turn leads to the circumvention of the law, should be abolished for the application for an electronic payment order consisting of a reduced judicial fee. Also, we must not forget that the State will receive much less funding precisely as a result of the transfer of the fee obligation in connection with the first amendment point, where the registry courts will deal with fewer registration proposals than before. They'll be logically notaries. In the light of practice, it is also proposed to change jurisdiction in proceedings concerning the contributions of members of the community to the administration of the house and the land and the compensation disputes for services and the way in which the price of services is settled. Under effective regulation, these courts should decide according to the prevailing interpretation - and this is not clear - of the regional courts. In terms of content, these disputes are minor or factually undemanding, as well as disputes about unpaid rents, and they are able to deal with the district courts in a good way. In the past, the Supreme Courts have been decided differently on the substance of the courts, which is why the proposal for a new regulation clearly states that they are competent in those decisions or should be the competent courts of the district in the future. Furthermore, the local jurisdiction of the courts in the proceedings for the benefit of foster care and the proceedings for the benefit of foster care and unemployment benefits shall be exempt from the legal fee. So, on the contrary, this is about exemption from the court fee. In the present legislation, the distribution of the agenda in these matters is considerably uneven, and often this is reflected in the undesirable different length of legal proceedings, in particular the significant overload of the Municipal Court in Prague, and according to the current legislation, local jurisdiction in the case of benefits of foster care is governed by the provisions of § 7 para. 2 of Act No. 150/2002 Coll., Administrative Rules of Procedure, i.e. according to the registered office of the prime administrative authority. The regional branches of the Labour Office, the head office of which is Prague, decide on the benefits of foster care. The local court must always be the Municipal Court in Prague. This is why it is proposed that local jurisdiction should be determined on the basis of the applicant's place of residence, as is the case with other benefits, such as employment benefits. We have also removed certain lengths, disproportionate delays in handling these things. This agenda is moved to regional courts according to the applicant's residence, so local jurisdiction will no longer be determined by the seat of the administrative authority which issued the decision at first instance if the Chamber of Deputies gives its consent. [[17.30 hours]] The proposed amendment also responds to the Ombudsman's recommendations contained in the 2012 Ombudsman's Summary Report on the Ombudsman's activities - or, once again, there is a delay in our response - which points out some of the shortcomings that the proposed legislation seeks to address. In this respect, the Justice Department has done nothing but accommodate. In contrast to the previous proposals that we have been discussing, the economic impact here is more pronounced, because we expect that, in connection with the introduction of a new judicial fee for the so-called direct entries of relevant facts in the register, which will mostly be carried out by notaries, this will have a negative impact on the revenue budget, namely Chapter 336 of the Ministry of Justice. At least our calculations assume that some 70 percent of the current agenda will be handled through notaries. If our prognosis is real, it would mean a reduction in income by about 118 million. Crowns. On the other hand, we expect positive economic impacts, which will be related in particular to the modification of the application fee for the issuance of an electronic payment order, and thus the limitation of the possibility of circumventing the applicable legislation by actually saving the taxpayer's work, even if it does not respect the procedure, it will not be possible to deliver the electronic payment order and will end up in the C court's agenda, but under significantly better financial conditions for him. The adjustment of the reduced court fee for the electronic payment order is due to a deficit in the revenue of the chapter, which was already recorded in 2013 and continues in 2014. I will not burden you with the numbers that I have at my disposal, which clearly show that the participants have learned very well that this is beneficial for them, and in this way the Institute has abused the reduced fee to the detriment of the state budget. By adjusting the electronic payment order fee to the standard fee for the initiation of civil proceedings, it is not an increase in the amount of revenue from the legal fees as a whole, but we are actually returning to the amount registered in 2012. A positive impact on the state budget will also be reflected by the fact that the State will no longer pay the costs of the notary if the joint property of the spouses is settled in favour of the surviving spouse and heirs under the agreement. So far, the notary's costs have been paid by the State, and now logically, according to the new regulation, if it is approved, the surviving spouse will pay the costs. For your more detailed information, a number of essential comments were made during the commentary procedure, which we have worked on in most of it. Among those who have not been settled, there is no consensus, for example, the comments made by the Union of the employers' associations of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Health. The dispute was that the Ministry of Health demanded that health insurance companies be free from legal charges in damages proceedings caused by a third party, by hurting the health for which the health insurance company incurred costs. That was a completely unconventional exception, so the Justice Department didn't agree with her. I submit this proposal with the conviction that there will be an improvement in the existing legislation in a number of legislations concerned. It is also in some ways a response to the fact that some laws were adopted after a lack of debate, and at some time pressure before the new Civil Code became effective, and others are actually a legacy that has passed to the Justice Department and should have been dealt with a long time ago. It is such, I would say, a mixed man of various proposals, whose purpose is to facilitate application after the entry into force of the new Civil Code, to improve the fiscal enforcement of certain charges, to transparentize revenue to the state budget and, at the same time, to meet the needs of specific users, whether it be those who want to enter public registers quickly for a reasonable fee through notaries... In fact, I would return to the individual proposals again. Allow me to ask you to approve this proposal for second reading, to let it go to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u3	Thank you, Minister Helena Válková. I ask now that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Lukáš Pleticha - but the Member is probably excused. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the rapporteur to Mr Jeroným Tejc, who wants to take it out of his innate goodness. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on the consent of the House to change the rapporteur from Mr Lukáš Pleticha to Mr Jeroným Tejc. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 172, registered 129 Members, for 95, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you to the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I will convince the thirty Members who have not given me confidence that I will be able to do well with this role as acting rapporteur. As chairman of the committee, I have no choice but to surprise the absent Members, and in this case I am happy to do so. I don't think there's any reason for me to complement the already exhausting interpretation of the Minister. What was to be said was said. I believe that we should not shorten and perhaps extend the deadline on this matter. Of course, it depends on the debate that will, but I think that a 60-day deadline should be enough for committees to discuss. I shall, if necessary, sign up in response to the contributions if they are raised in the general debate. I assume that this press should be presented to the constitutionally legal committee for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate to which the President of the Civic Democratic Party's Civic Club Zbyněk Stanjura is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u6	Thank you for the floor. Unlike the rapporteur, I do not think that this report has been completely exhaustive. Let me quote you first, virtually. first a short remark, then I quote a letter from the Association of Transport Enterprises of the Czech Republic to you, and then perhaps a short comment. If we take the explanatory memorandum, the material, the House press, on page 10, the estimated economic and financial scope of the proposed legislation for the state budget, other public budgets, the business environment of the Czech Republic, etc. The Minister spoke in her opening words about the impact on the state budget. There's no reason for me to question the words, the numbers. However, unfortunately, this is not the first time and probably not the last time - it is not just the Minister's criticism, it is not the criticism of this government, it has also happened in previous parliamentary periods - the issue of impact on other public budgets is very casually addressed. And we, who have ever been members of the council of the municipality, the city or the region, know that many of the laws approved by Parliament, that is, the House and the Senate, which face, for example, neutrally against the state budget, increase the costs of municipal or municipal cash registers. And I don't think it's correct, and even in this bill, I just miss it. [[17.40 hours]] I don't normally do this, but since it's really the opinion of the associations of transport companies, I'll allow you to read the letter, and then on the basis of the data - and let's assume that it's the opinion of this association, not my opinion or our club, but because I have experience with the operation, or the fact that when the city owns a transport business, it operates public transport, so I think that many of these arguments are worth considering and debating in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u7	I apologize, Mr President, for asking the House to keep it down and listen to the exciting position of the transport association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u8	Did you say thrilling, Mr. Vice-President? [[- Yes.]] Well, I don't think it's exciting, I think it's material, and it points out the risks that could arise by approving this law in this form on the other public budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u9	I'm sorry, I just wanted to motivate Members to get more attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u10	I believe that Members do not need motivation. But I'm done commenting. The Association of Transport Enterprises of the Czech Republic is turning to the House, for example through me, with a request for an amendment to the Chamber of Press number 306, which is the one we are currently discussing, where under item 16 the proposal contains the proposal - they say the hidden proposal of the Ministry of Justice, I think the Minister has spoken about it quite openly, so I do not consider it a hidden proposal from the Ministry of Justice, but an open proposal from the Ministry of Justice to increase the judicial fee for issuing an electronic order of CZK 400 to CZK 1,000 in the case of negative claims, which undoubtedly include claims for a ride without a valid travel document. The association of transport undertakings of the Czech Republic would like to note that a ride without a valid document in public transport can be regarded as the so-called theft of the public service as transport services are provided by individual carriers under the public service obligation regime. And we know that. This applies both to České dráhy, for example at state level for trains and at regional level, but for transport companies it is at the level of the city when cities, whether with their own transport company or with a company that provides public transport, have a public service contract. Very often it is mistakenly called subsidies, whether the Czech Railways or the transport companies, but it is indeed in the regime of the public commitment contract, because otherwise it would not have been possible, otherwise there would have been a breach of the rules on public support and so on. Therefore, the association, which has 19 members in total, I think they are all transport businesses that are setting up cities, maybe there are some other members, I don't know the whole list, thinks as I said it was a public service theft. Because, in any case, those contractual transport relations are always happening with the involvement of one of the public budgets, thus giving it a distinct and distinct public element. We believe that the rule of law should contain such institutes that can effectively protect public budgets, for example, from increasing the cost of recovering claims for non-payment of passengers. And now this association presents one number, which is really very interesting, because we rarely have aggregated numbers for all cities or for all transport companies. Last year, this is in 2013, where the final accounts of individual cities are undoubtedly closed, these 19 transport companies received a total of more than 16.3 billion from public budgets. Czech crowns. 16.3, which is a huge sum. And since this is the proposal, and the Minister said so, from CZK 400 to CZK 1,000, by an increase of 150 per cent, we rightly believe that the proposed regulation will have a significant impact on the public budgets of municipalities. However, no information is provided on this fact in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. The association of transport undertakings considers that the proposal increases the financial burden on the debtor, while the proposal increases the financial burden on the creditor - here is the impact on the public budgets of municipalities. Furthermore, that the last year's legislative proposals internally contradict that the proposal deepens the inequality of participants before the law, the proposal restricts the creditor's right to judicial protection, the proposal brings a deviation from the trend in the advanced legal systems of neighbouring countries, and the proposed amendment brings problems to the parties without showing a positive impact on the financing of the judicial report, writes. And now the more detailed justification given by this association. The proposal runs counter to the current general legislative trend for the protection of the debtor at the expense of the creditor. The aim of all recent legislation has always been to reduce the financial burden on the unsuccessful - I note the unsuccessful - party to the dispute. For example, the amendment to the Bar Tariff by decree of the Ministry of Justice No. 120/2014 Coll. reduced the creditor's compensation for legal representation costs by 85 per cent, with the most frequently mentioned reason for this step being the protection of the debtor. Although this decree is, in the opinion of some lawyers who are engaged in the recovery of negative claims is unconstitutional, it is effective. However, the Ministry of Justice is now submitting a proposal which ultimately increases the burden of the unsuccessful party by 150 per cent. In our view, the contradiction in the philosophy of both proposals is evident. The protection of the debtor, although this does not always seem fair, is certainly not the case in the case of the ministerial proposal in question. The burden of unsuccessful parties to the dispute will be increased, the burden for creditors and, in the case of public transport, the burden for public budgets will be increased. The only difference is that instead of a successful party to the dispute, the State will collect more, which is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the House press. Now the quote is, I'm gonna skip it, we're all in the press, and the secretary commented on it in her opening words. So after the quote, the letter continues: The proposal is also in sharp conflict with the presentation of the petitioner's views on the situation in the area of recovery. According to our proposal, the Ministry of Justice has made it clear in the long run, although contrary to the economic reality, that the costs of the proceedings on the part of the plaintiff, the creditors, are minimal in some types of dispute. But it would be enough for a very rough orientation... After all, Mr. Vice-President, the noise is quite high, so I'm gonna ask my colleague and colleagues...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u11	I also ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down even though the position is not as exciting as I thought it would be. It's very serious. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u12	Thank you. However, it would be sufficient to look at the costs of the court in connection with the decision on the same type of negative or legal expertise not requiring things for a very rough orientation on the subject. All the adjectives are in quotes, I don't know how I would point it out when I read the letter. Of course, the exact figure would have to refer to a particular court, but it can be assumed that the costs of handling one thing will be equal to the sum of all salaries, salaries, administrative costs, building management, consumables and other items. All of this is divided by the number of cases the senior magistrate or judge decides. The costs thus calculated cannot be lower than CZK 4-6,000 per case. In doing so, the courts shall use the same guidance forms as the parties to the proceedings and, if possible, modern and effective means of communication at a distance. While the plaintiff, the creditor, must carry out at least three acts in the same case for which, in the case of legal representation, he is entitled to reimbursement of the costs of CZK 900 and without legal representation of CZK zero, the court will only decide on the case and the plaintiff, the creditor, will charge him with a thousand crown court fee. We intend to leave aside purely administrative costs, which are significant both on the court and on the plaintiff's side. In this situation, CZK 600 is only a drop in the sea of effective financing of the judicial system - I do not know whether the system - but on the part of the plaintiff, who is in the law, which hardly sounds in the public debate of the funeral, will be a decisive factor in the profitability of the action. However, this is considered inadmissible interference with the right of a party to judicial protection. At the same time, it is recalled that the unsuccessful party will also feel a small increase in the costs of the proceedings as a result. [[17.50 hours]] In view of the above, the application therefore deepens the inequality of the parties, which is now due to the fact that where the successful applicant, in the case of legal representation, is entitled to reimbursement of the costs of CZK 900 and without legal representation of CZK zero, the defendant is entitled to CZK 3,900 in the event of success against the applicant. The separate chapter represents the motivation which led the Ministry to submit the proposal. In the explanatory memorandum, the proposed amendment, e.g. states: It can therefore be concluded that the applicants often submit an application for an electronic order of payment precisely because the court fee for such an application is lower than in the case of an application for the opening of civil proceedings. This cannot be denied and we regard it as a consequence of the pressure to reduce the financial burden on the debtor and the rational considerations of the creditor, the result of which saves the costs of all participants. However, it is incomprehensible how, on the basis of the above, the petitioner can conclude that the current adjustment needs to be amended and the participants even more burdened. In other words, the petitioner says that it is necessary to repeal the relevant provision because it is more used in practice. I think that was also said in the opening words of the Minister. Electronisation of justice should have contributed to a more efficient, thus cheaper functioning of general courts. We note that a rapid and fair trial is a desirable situation, the costs of which will not be ruined by either party or by the court itself. If the Ministry of Justice is not able to ensure that the costs of the court's handling of one thing move, then it is merely an object to make the court's management more efficient. In our opinion, however, it is absolutely unacceptable for this management to be disproportionately and without thought, in particular in the context of a situation where, according to the Ministry, a successful prosecutor is able to conduct proceedings for practically free, while the unsuccessful defendant is stylized as a martyr and the costs of proceedings on his part are considered immoral. Also, the argument by the Ministry of Justice that the advantage represented by the lower court fee is meaningless when two thirds of the proposals for issuing an electronic payment order are subsequently translated into ordinary proceedings clearly shows that these are long-term unresolved problems, such as. in the increasing number of persons registered at official addresses, non-solving delivery of consignments to debtors at those addresses, non-receiving of consignments by the debtor, retention of debtors at the place of permanent residence and others. Instead of looking for solutions to these fundamental problems, which would in our view improve the situation of receipt of consignments, an increase in the judicial fee is proposed, which will significantly harm creditors in the enforcement of claims according to publicly available sources of 30-40 percent. Which, in this case, is the public budgets of municipalities. In the near foreign country, the amount of the court fee is in deed and legally similar disputes... [[A silence for a loud noise in the hall.]] Thank you very much. It's been an advanced hour, so let's understand that I'm getting close to the end of that letter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u13	And it's gonna get worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u14	Well, the other electoral password has already won the election here, but it doesn't belong in this letter. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] In the vicinity of the country, the amount of the judicial fee in deed and legally similar disputes is similar to the one prescribed by the existing legislation in the Czech Republic. In Slovakia, it is EUR 15.6, EUR 21 in Austria, etc. Taking into account socio-economic indicators in a number of European countries, it represents an even lower burden for the applicant there than the current CZK 400 in the Czech Republic. The ministerial proposal therefore, among other things, withdraws Czech legislation to standards in the rights of neighbouring countries. The association of transport undertakings in the Czech Republic, in its letter of February this year addressed to the Minister of Justice of the Czech Republic, requested an adjustment of the tariff of court fees and pointed out that some courts repeatedly, contrary to this tariff for the plaintiffs for issuing a resolution on the cancellation of the order, charged an additional court fee of CZK 600 or did not issue a payment order at all and immediately issued a resolution on the supplement of the court fee of CZK 600, stating that they knew from another activity that the defendant was not staying at that address. Then there is a request for me to introduce this to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have done by reading this rather long letter. Now, a quick comment. The State proposes that you improve the chapter of the Ministry of Justice - because the explanatory memorandum states that both in 2013 and 2014 money was missing in the chapter - at the expense of the municipalities. And it must be said that honest citizens and honest travelers pay when they travel by public transport. If we simplify life, or in other words, if we complicate the recovery of debts for those who do not pay, the honest will again pay you, because less money will travel into the municipal budget, less pavements will be repaired, fewer kindergartens will stand up, fewer social services will be financed, and now every council's political priorities will matter. We are a few days after the new municipal elections and I do not think that we should increase the costs of municipalities by our decision. And it doesn't matter who's in the coalition in that village and who's in the opposition in that community. We're not gonna propose to dismiss the law. I think that the reservations that have been raised can be resolved within the framework of the debate. I would just ask the Minister why the explanatory memorandum does not mention that the impact on public budgets will certainly be high. To be able to estimate what, unfortunately, I do not have the numbers, we would have to know how many such actions or enforcement of transport companies are doing each year, times 600, and that is the impact on the city and municipality budget. From public sources, I would say that these are tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of cases per year in the entire territory of the Czech Republic, which are already, if you multiply it by six hundred crowns, really large funds. I think that if the Justice Department chapter needs more money, there are other ways, for example. other chapters within the state budget. There's a $100 billion deficit proposed. I do not think that the revenue of the state should be recovered from the income of municipalities. I really don't think so. Very often, we are going to impose an obligation on municipalities with extended scope, especially ORPs. Those municipalities have to accept other officials when they want to comply with the law, and although this is not in the explanatory report, the costs of municipalities and cities are essentially increasing. And not just for self-government, but for the transferred performance of the state administration. That is why many colleagues rightly say that they feel more like the leaders of the district office, which was the performance of the state administration, was the case by the state than by the mayors and prosecutors who have their electoral programs, but then under the weight of bureaucratic responsibilities - which are imposed on them by every government, so that I do not criticize, so that it is not only meant for this government. There's just less money and time, and that's wrong, because then the mayors are quite rightly subject to criticism by their citizens. Citizen does not distinguish at all what self-government is and what the transferred performance of the state administration is. We shouldn't even ask him to. Citizen comes to the office and wants to deal with it and doesn't distinguish whether it's the government, whether the mayor can influence it or not. Anyone sitting at City Hall knows how desperate it is to talk to a citizen who is unhappy with the decision of the building office. And if you're telling him the truth that you can't actually help him, that all you can do is make it quite complicated and not simply replace the head of the building office - I say very complicatedly, which doesn't mean there's going to be a change of decision. And there are other cases where a citizen can't tell. I say, I do not blame the citizens, but we should not impose additional and other obligations and, on the contrary, increase their additional and other costs. On the other hand, since I'm already defending the community and criticizing the state, it has nothing to do with it, but I have to say it. I think for example. fines collected by the city police, in my opinion very often unnecessarily and very often as a money machine, and mayors argue that it is not about the money, but it is about road safety, so if we take the arguments seriously, that's fine, but the money from the fines should end up in the state budget. Then, of course, it would be a true argument that the municipality takes care of road safety, that it has no economic incentive, because the economic advantage would be the Police of the Czech Republic, e.g. could strengthen a number of traffic police. It is only so that the debate is relatively balanced, so that it is not so that the economic effect always makes the state at the expense of the municipalities. Sometimes it's the other way around. I'd like to ask the secretary if she has an estimate of how much driving is per year. I don't know. I really don't want to test you. If not, I understand. But I do know that executions that arise on the basis of unpaid travel documents are spoken quite often. Very often, perhaps very sad, humanly sad stories are shown, and it is rarely said that the decent travelers are actually bailing out of their fare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Before I give the floor, I will read the note: today, for reasons of work until the end of the day, she apologises from 17.30 to Mrs Zelienková. I have an application for a debate here. With priority rights, Mr Tejc, then Minister Válková and then Mr Plíšek. So, Madam Secretary comes first, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u16	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I will be relatively brief. I do not currently have some of the data relating to the impact of public budgets on the state budget - on the one hand. On the other hand, I think that the opinion presented here in detail in the form of a letter... Representatives of certain transport organisations need not represent the opinion of the majority, I even dare say that they do not represent. And I think that such an argument that this government, even though it has been reminded here, is not only a mischief of this government, in quotation marks, forgets that every proposal is needed to burden taxpayers, whether they are municipalities or organisations, must also be documented objectively and, if possible, accurately quantified economic estimates of the associated costs, so I think that especially the issue of the new Civil Code, which was presented with the fact that it will have a neutral effect and that it will not significantly burden the state budget and other budgets, is living proof that it will not always be able to estimate things in the way that reality will show it. On the contrary, the difference is sometimes awkward. Which, of course, doesn't make excuses for not being able to do right now, or I don't have the required data at my disposal, and I'm definitely going to supplement it. Nevertheless, I think that the increase in the fee for filing an electronic court order is justified by what I said in my opening speech, including by circumventing the fee obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u17	Thank you. I note two factual points, the first Mr Birke and then Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, allow me not to delay the House's negotiations, but to respond very briefly to the speech, through you, Mr Vice-President, fellow Stanjura. I think I'd sign everything that was said here in terms of the transferred performance of the state administration. I think that this is a long-term and discussed topic, especially at the level of mayors and especially the three-way communities entrusted with it. But two notes. I totally agree. You can't just change the decision of the building office or any other, like the transport department, by changing the official, because it's very complicated. On the other hand, I must say that we have been redistributed here - we have put in wine in the budget of cities budgeting taxes, which have been very useful in financing cities. On the other hand, however, the citizen does not really care about what money we will finance the transferred performance of the government and where we will get the money for it. But I have to say that I've been mayor for four years, which means I'm intersecting the right and center-right government. I must say that every year was a very significant decline in the performance of the state administration from the state budget. At this point, we do not have it calculated as far as this same government, which I am a government member, is concerned. But all I have to say is that when the state orders its business with us, it must also be paid for. Unfortunately, in the last four years it has often not been, despite the fact that we have been allocated a financial contribution within the framework of the distribution or determination of taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u19	I thank you for keeping time. And now I'm going to ask President Stanjura to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u20	It is clear to me, of course, that the issue of public transport is not the issue of the Ministry of Justice. But Madam Secretary, it is certainly the vast majority of public transport providers. Absolutely most of it. I think almost everyone's there. Now we're not talking about regular traffic, long-distance, where the tickets are also purchased in a completely different way. Those black passengers aren't really born there. We're really talking about urban transport companies, I think, except for one or two, they're all 100% owned by the city. And it's all of them, it's not a minority. About what Mr - now I would say mayor Birke - but Mr Birke. I agree with that. No House of Parliament has overcome the dissenting position of all finance ministers, because it is said in the law that the State is giving the municipalities a contribution to the performance of the state administration. And I have long held the view, and I take the criticism that I did not enforce it, and that is true, I was in the minority that it should be there: the state pays the transferred performance of the state administration. It's the only chance the state will stop giving more and more responsibilities that the state will see how much it really costs. And not for political reasons or for the fight against bureaucracy, but for economic reasons, he will stop doing it. And that's the motivation. So I understand the criticism, I'd like to sign it, too. I'm not saying it was better because I said all governments, but I'm taking it for last term, unfortunately I failed with that opinion and I failed as mayor. I have advocated this since 2002 and already, but basically everyone had the same opinion: we can't put it there that we are paying for it. [[unintelligible]] I say, but that's the only thing in this republic that I'm going to order a service and pay a part. I can't imagine the village paying for something and telling the supplier, so we'll pay you part, thank you, leave. So that's true. And if this finance minister or this government finds support for this proposal for the state to actually pay for it, we will certainly support it, but it will not be easy. And if that doesn't work, I won't even blame it, because I personally didn't succeed in getting a majority in the then government coalition, so that this principle is enshrined in our legislative environment, and I consider it right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u21	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would not like to abuse the right of priority, because I would like to speak not as much as the rapporteur, but rather as a Member, or as President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, to whom the press will certainly be ordered, although it may not be the only committee to deal with this matter. I have to say that many of the arguments that have been made here, and I have also had the opportunity to get to know them on the basis of a letter that has been quoted here and which I do not want to repeat all of it, I think is very reasonable and we have to think about them, because the coin actually has two sides. First of all, we are trying to reduce the costs of debtors for back-up claims. Indeed, in the past, it was said that, for example, lawyers, lawyers, in principle, should have a remuneration in the framework of 100 Crowns, so that debtors would not be burdened with unnecessary costs. I think this is the way in the right direction, because, after all, we all know the cases where another 17,000 were added to the claim of a thousand crowns as costs of legal representation, execution and others. So I'm sure the direction we went is correct. However, it is not entirely logical in the context of the proposal, because on the one hand, we say: lawyers are to be given less because it is not a complex activity, but we must give more to the court that is discussing these cases, even though it is a backwater dispute. The other side of the coin, however, talks about the fact that the costs of the courts are still higher, of course, even with regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court and the general courts that there should be an increase in the salaries of judges, with which we will do nothing here, it is simply a decision that we cannot influence. [[18.10 hours]] And undoubtedly other costs, energy and others, are rising, so in this sense I understand the Ministry of Justice, which is trying to adjust the system of court fees in some way just a little bit to the detriment of electronic payment orders, i.e. increase the amount to CZK 1,000 even in the case of these proceedings. I'm asking myself a little bit of a question besides the ones that have fallen here, whether it will lead to the system being more efficient, because if it means, for example, that electronic payment orders will decline and others' proposals will be added, it might have the opposite effect. But these are questions that I think are pointless for us to address here in the House. I think the Minister, as we have had the opportunity to monitor her performance and, as I have spoken with her, will certainly be able to supply the committee with all the documents, and I think we can carefully discuss this at the committee's meeting. It is certainly true that not only the debtor is burdened, but also the creditor, because indeed about 30 per cent of the actions are not successful in the sense that the funds would be recovered. So this certainly confirms what Mr Stanjura was talking about, namely that there would be a burden on the public budgets of other municipalities, which, of course, subsidize these actions from taxpayers' money, and, of course, that would be either the debt of the municipality or an increase in its expenditure on this activity, or an increase in the fare for all who are not black passengers. I do not believe that the increase from 400 to 1,000 crowns is somehow fatal. On the other hand, I am offering, and if this proposal is referred to the committee, which I assume, in view of the fact that the motion for rejection has not been announced, we will certainly want to discuss this matter separately, which means there will certainly be time for that and I believe that we will agree, because this is not the only thing that is contained in this press. He may have far more fundamental passages, but I understand that this is a matter that we need not only to talk about, but which we need to finish, and I believe that we are able to find a common ground with the Ministry, but, after all, with representatives of transport companies that defend public interest. From me, in the sense that we would like to discuss this very openly on the committee, and certainly the arguments that have been raised here will be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u23	Thank you. I now have a written factual comment from President Petr Fiala. No, okay. In that case, Mr Plíšek is duly entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u24	Good evening. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, let me also briefly comment on the amendment in question. I am also in favour of submitting a proposal for further reading to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee, but I am already making two quite substantial comments. One is legislative. In this proposal, it is proposed to exempt trade unions from the judicial fee linked to registration in a public register. However, we, in this Chamber of Deputies, approved an amendment to the Law on Judicial Charges, which liberated not only trade unions, but freed a number of legal entities from these judicial fees for a period of 18 months in effect, until the Act on Public Benefits was passed. This means that not only trade unions, but also employers' associations, generally beneficial companies, associations, constitutions and other legal entities that perform public benefits have already been exempted by law. I therefore consider this provision to be a duplication of legislation already adopted, and I think that we will return to this on the part of the constitutional committee. Likewise, and it has already been said here by the previous speakers, I consider it quite questionable to cancel the reduced fee in case of electronic payment orders. From my point of view, this provision goes against the trend of electronization, and thus the possible simplified processing of these submissions. We go back to the time of paper submission, while electronic filing was motivated by a reduced price, because processing this electronic submission was cheaper for the court, so it reduced the costs both on the plaintiff's side and on the court's side. Now it seems that we are going the other way, so I think that this is also a topic for the Constitutional Committee, so that we can look into it and find a compromise solution, if necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I don't see anyone logged in to the debate. I wonder if that's the case or if anyone wants to get out. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u26	Everything about electronic payment orders. I'm sure there'll be room for numbers on the committee. I understand we don't have them at our disposal. [[There's noise in the room.]] But I want to ask you something else. There's an estimate, and I'm wondering what it is that companies are going to use 70 percent of the notary's service, and therefore the revenue drop is defined. I would like to know what this is based on, because the company will decide according to economic costs - logically. It's not in the explanatory memorandum if the company does it itself, how much they're going to pay. I'm sorry that I didn't know the books in my head, but by always just paying, I never cashed in, so I don't remember much. Looks like the number's up for grabs to me. Unless it's significantly cheaper. If it is cheaper, it is clear that companies will behave economically and choose a cheaper path. I think that after experience and a huge improvement against, for example, the situation in the 1990s, and I know that there was a slight problem right now, but it's basically a problem-free thing for companies too. It works well, it works fast and it's not the same as in the 1990s that it came back thanks to electronic communication, prescribed forms and so on. It seems too pessimistic to me, even the estimate. Whether the secretary would say what to build on, any experience, any investigation, or any qualified estimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask once again whether anyone is reporting to the general debate. This is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I stand by the fact that I am ending the general debate and the Minister is asking for the final word, so I am giving you the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u28	Thank you. I'll take advantage of it, and in the final speech, I'd deal with some of the not-so-simply-answerable questions. One. As far as the exemption from court fees is concerned, I have now also been informed that the Senate has returned it. It's the temporary liberation for 18 months. It may end up being a permanent liberation, so I think we will have to deal with this reminder in the second reading if we proceed to the second reading. As far as the electronicisation of the payment order is concerned, I do not think that its practical use would fall so significantly, but I can be wrong, and I would certainly not like to downplay the arguments that have fallen from transport companies or organisations operating transport services. I agree with what the rapporteur has said that the proposal contains a number of major changes with more important impacts, not economic ones, and that, as the promoter, I agree that this item should be particularly discussed and added to the required data. So I don't tie it like a conditio sine qua non to further discuss this proposal. And as far as the last question is concerned, fortunately, I have a qualified estimate there, because I have discussed it with the Notary Chamber and specifically with the numbers, the difference between the fee paid in court and the one paid in the notary, if I remember correctly, the difference varies in the order of hundreds of crowns to a thousand. I'm not exactly gonna tell you right now, but it's definitely more of an optimistic guess. I'm afraid any judge will choose a notary's path rather than a judge. Unfortunately, in this sense, my words are likely to come to an impact on the budget of justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u29	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u30	Well, that's good news for the Notary Chamber, no doubt. No, I want to thank you for both answers. We didn't propose to dismiss the law. I agree that there are other, perhaps more important amounts, but it is logical that in the debate we ask either what we do not agree with, which in this case was not, or where we see the problem. On it. [[unintelligible]] I don't think we can be expected to say here's the problem, there's no problem here. I'm sure it'll be a standard course. I don't even think, as the Vice-President said, it should be a different committee than constitutionally. So I do not think that, for example, economics should deal with this if it has any economic impact. I see no reason. I'm sure the numbers will show up there, the stats, and we'll know on that basis. We are prepared to make an amendment, and perhaps only an inspiration if it is not discriminatory - we do not need that as a general rule. This is about the interests of the various public budgets. State and public budgets of municipalities and cities. And without a doubt, there are interests of others. And I'm calling for the interests of city and community budgets. I think that this is something that colleagues and colleagues in the Constitutional Legal Committee can discuss and find a solution that might suit and that would not, perhaps, interfere with the Ministry of Justice's budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u31	Thank you. I ask whether the rapporteur wants to speak with the final speech. No. In that case, we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion, because I have not noted the proposal for a return or rejection. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I am asking whether there is any other proposal. I don't. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I'll read the resolution. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee? I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? It's vote number 173. Members present are 131, 100 Members were against no one for this proposal. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for consideration by the Constitutional Legal Committee. I will end the discussion of this point and pass the proceedings on to my colleague Gazdík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-006-056.u32	The next item to be addressed at today's meeting is:
