ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended, and other related laws /house print 256/ - second reading I ask that my colleague Adolf Beznoska take the floor at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy. We have received a resolution from this committee, which we have ordered to discuss this press as press number 256/1. I now ask that, under the authority of the Government, the proposal put forward by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Michaela Marksová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor on this press. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members, we all know that this amendment is actually called for by a great social need, to say so, and because there has been a lot of talk about this amendment and the issue, I will just really briefly highlight the main message, namely that this proposal is aimed primarily at preventing the payment of housing supplements to completely inadequate premises in accommodation facilities, which are financed at an absolutely disproportionate amount for the benefit of their operators, without currently being a violation of the legislation in force. So some tightening up is being proposed here, especially so that it is not such an incredibly profitable business to move people living in material distress into a hostel and really get rich really fast on it. Otherwise, I would like to conclude by saying that, as part of the discussion of this proposal in the Committee on Social Policy, an amendment was adopted at the initiative of the public defender of rights, which consists in mitigating some of the building-technical requirements for recreational buildings within the framework of quality standards, in order to ensure that the surcharge is achieved by the owners of the buildings they use for permanent housing, because it has not yet been done. But we will discuss these amendments in detail at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u3	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and now ask the rapporteur to inform us about the committee's deliberations and comment on the Press 256/1. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u4	Thank you. Very briefly. The committee's discussions on this point have been quite long. The issue is really serious, because it is an endless business for some tunnellers who simply participate enormously. For your information, three years ago, the state spent about CZK 850 million on the supplement, another year it was CZK 1.6 billion and last year CZK 2.8 billion, so the increase is really dramatic and there is something to be done about it. I personally understand this as a step in the right direction, but it is not a complete, absolutely correct step, because this probably requires more thought and a conceptual solution to stop this human trouble business definitively. I think there will be quite a fruitful debate on this, just as it was on the Committee on Social Policy, which I will then introduce to you in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the report. Before I open the general debate, I will say two apologies to the President, Mr Jiří Koskuba from 15.30 and Mr Stanislav Huml from 15.30 for working reasons today. I will now open the debate and report with priority rights to Mr Tomio Okamura, President of the Úsvit movement, President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura and then duly signed in in writing. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this law is concerned, I am so glad that, despite the obvious dislike of Minister Dienstbier, a law has been passed in the government that may at least partially resolves the parasitisation of speculators in human poverty and threatens the abused benefits. Of course, the problem could have been solved long ago, and the Treasury could have been millions of crowns richer if the House had already approved the Úsvit movement proposal, which we prepared together with Mayor Šluknovsko, with Mayor Bystřice under Hostýn and other affected areas in winter and which resolved the whole problem clearly. Unfortunately, there is politics here in the House, and it is not the interest of citizens in the first place, but that, by chance, some party does not have political points for a good idea. If you are prepared by our law with the mayors of the affected places, that means that unlike the members of the government, they do not have to go there repeatedly behind the spotlights of television cameras because they live in it, and I myself come from Mommy in Bystřice pod Hostýn, we have it right in the square between the church and the town hall, the hostel with 200 Rom people moving in. That means we know what we're talking about, and it could have been done by now. And if you had adopted our law in the winter, the law that really prepared the people who live there could have had speculators in their pockets a few million crowns less in public money over the past few months, and there could have been a few million more in our public register, and we could have used these millions in addition to, for example, pensions or social care, that is, what government representatives are constantly lashing out about when money could have been available, so they vote against. The functionality of the government proposal, when I look at it like that, will, of course, show practice. Of course, I still believe that our idea, that is, the idea of Dawn and the mayors of Šluknov and other affected areas to put the contribution on the housing unit according to the price map, is more systemic. The price map is clear and cannot be cheated. Of course, a fully functional rental price map would have to be established, because today it is incomplete and indicative. She's in charge of the Ministry of Regional Development, but we know that, and we talked about it here in the House a few months ago. Instead, the government amendment gives many conditions, but they will have to be reviewed. Indeed, the statement by government representatives in the media that the usual price at the site will be determined, inter alia, on the basis of the offer of local real estate agencies. What if there isn't one? Or is it arranged directly with the hostel owner? And is it at all reasonable to decide at the level of CZK hundreds of millions on the basis of some offers from real estate agencies instead of the Ministry of Regional Development's price map, which cannot be questioned? It would be good to think about whether it's better to fund a proper price map or to keep an endlessly checking that everything is being followed. We at Dawn are definitely the first to do it. The law should also fix the limit on the contribution to the housing unit with regard to the size of the family. If someone is in need and wants benefits, they have to deal with housing. On the other hand, on the other hand, I see the task of the state to provide people with a decently paid job through active employment policy, which means creating conditions for creating jobs or a decent pension, and, of course, if they don't, they need to be able to take care of people, i.e. to provide social housing, which means encouraging municipalities to buy and manage municipal apartments for socially needed citizens. And I stress that I am not talking about long-term parasitic groups right now. Unfortunately, about the promised social housing law, we learned here last time from the Minister that it will not be submitted to the House until 2016. At that time, when the Minister here said it, Mr Stanjura here responded, and I remember that very well that there was a discussion at the time, so I don't understand why it should take so long when government parties have promised it from the start. As far as the problem groups of the population are concerned, few know that the problem is not only in speculators, but also sometimes in the impracticalness of some municipalities. I was in the village because I have been going to these places for a long time, where the mayor complained that the prices of flats were falling in a troubled location, the apartment sold here recently for only CZK 30,000. Of course, the loan shark bought it right away and rented it to other inadaptable citizens for 15 grand a month. Of course, which comes from the housing supplement. A friend of an ex-cop grabbed his head and asked the mayor, "Damn, why didn't you buy it yourself?" "Why?" the mayor asked. "It's to give the apartment free of charge to a city or state policeman, and he would have made sure the house was quiet, and normal people wouldn't move out anymore." And there's a buried dog. Of course, it's not just a fix. Even newly established housing benefits can be a profit for loan sharks. However, the objective is different, and that should be our objective: we must set up a social housing system so that the socially earmarked ones do not gather in the ghettos, but, on the contrary, we must break the ghettos. Of course, we see gaps in other areas in the law. The fact that foreigners without citizenship and their family members are entitled to benefits is just a cherry on a spoiled cake. However, we have already talked about this here in the House in the past and unfortunately in vain. So even if we vote in favour of this amendment, because even an imperfect and delayed effort is better than nothing, we also say that this is not the end of the work on the law and, on the contrary, the work on a comprehensive solution to this issue begins. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to working with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u7	Yes, thank you to President Okamur. The President of the ODS, Mr Stanjura, is registered with priority rights and therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would like to introduce you to the opinion of my colleagues who have participated in the Ostrava government and who come from a place where the problem really exists and their position on what the law is dealing with and what the law doesn't solve, because I think today is the first step and certainly not the last one in this area. It is not confrontational to the Minister, rather the view or experience or the requests of those who deal with the problem in the communal area, and then in the detailed debate I will read the amendments to Section 33a and the release of § 33b. We will certainly talk about prices and prices, and I think that the rapporteur will make an amendment to the ODS club when we propose that the price be limited to CZK 1 000 per month and bed, and that will solve the price maps, real estate agencies and so on. It is an amount that is not attractive, but on the other hand, in cities like Ostrava or Opava, market rents are much lower than the prices that the State pays for much worse housing in hostels. I'm sure we're not the only two cities, there's a lot of people with a lot of community policy experience who can confirm those words. And that's the problem, because we have to give these people, or we should give them some housing, which I think we agree on. If the money goes directly to the hostel owner, then those people don't care if the hostel owner gets one thousand or fifteen thousand, because it works very often so that the money goes directly to the hostel owner, and the money is supposed to be adequate. And our proposal of a thousand crowns bed/month seems adequate to us that those who really want to provide social services and assistance to socially needy people receive adequate money for this, but not to be a typical subject of business. I think there are much better businesses that those who have talent and want to earn that are much more appropriate areas. Let me quote from the Ostrava colleagues' position that I should not use their arguments and use their work on this. They acknowledge that the problem is solved by the loudest problems, or the bill proposal, the loudest problem that exists, but they ignore some of the facts that I would like to mention. I'll wait a little while until the Socialist Club meeting is over, and then it'll disturb me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u9	I ask my colleagues not to disturb President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u10	I'll wait. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u11	No, he can't wait, you won't disturb him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u12	I'll wait, I said. As long as they're intruding, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u13	Well, I'm asking that the debate be conducted in the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u14	Thank you. Once again, the Minister should be at the debate, we really consider this an important issue. It's actually a topic that I don't think divides the coalition - the opposition to whether we're dealing with it, maybe it divides us into what instruments and what steps we're supposed to take. The opinion of self-government, not just Ostrava, which I am sending to others, is that it would be necessary to provide legislative provision - and I say no in this amendment, we are not ready to load it now at second reading - so that the hostels that want to receive the housing supplement have the approval of the respective municipalities. I think that's a reasonable thing to do. Self-administration suggests that the payment of the housing supplement to the owners of the hostel should also be conditional on the provision of social services. Again, I think it's a reasonable thing that these are continuous containers that. [[unintelligible]] Definitely make the existence of a hostel conditional on the maximum capacity of the hostel or hostel, thus removing it and avoiding the problems where more people live there than they want. This joint assessment, of course, contributes to this, so to speak. Then it is necessary to lay down, but also enforce clear rules of construction, fire, hygiene, because she often is, many of these construction offices do not progress so, or progress rather lengthyly, so that again give the instrument to those who want to apply these rules so that they can effectively enforce them and possibly in breach of hygienic, fire or other standards to close those hostels. And then, and that is the long-term task that every political representation faces, so I will mention it, but it is nothing new: we must have a comprehensive social housing policy. As citizens' democrats, we stress that the key is throughput. I don't think there are many social apartments that aren't so marked today. These are the apartments where young families start. These are the cheaper apartments, and then, of course, they try to change housing and go to better or bigger apartments, but really make a functional system of penetration so that those who come to the hostel will not stay there anymore. If there's a problem and you solve it once and then it doesn't have a solution, because when someone else gets in trouble in six, nine, twelve months, suddenly there's no capacity. That means having clear rules for the penetration. These are suggestions for the next debate over the next amendment, because we understand that the problem was acute, it is solved like this, but there are other problems and there is no reason not to take advantage of the experience of colleagues in municipal policy who are dealing with it today and daily. As part of this amendment, I would like to read the proposals that come from Ostrava in a detailed debate. In principle, so that we do not allow - I will not read it in detail, I will read it in a detailed debate - payment of the housing supplement -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u15	Mr President, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House again for peace. And I ask that no one disturb the rapporteur and the Minister, because they must monitor the debate even more closely than the others. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u16	In principle, there are more of these proposals, relating to two paragraphs, I will read this, but in principle it concerns not allowing us to pay the housing surcharge in premises other than those intended for housing. Maybe that Section 33b is trying to solve it and set some standards. We think it is better not to make this possible at all, and that is what the amendment will be aimed at. I believe that by next week or by the third reading, we will be able to debate this and, if necessary, find support for this proposal, because I consider it reasonable. The details and then I will certainly read it in a detailed debate, I do not want to burden now. But what I'm saying is that this is troubling many mayors and councils regardless of political affiliation, regardless of the size of the city. There are cities where the problem is not, on the contrary, there are dozens, maybe hundreds of cities that are bothering the problem. We are prepared to support this bill, even if our amendments did not pass. We consider them complementary, it is nothing that goes against the Government's proposal and the Minister's. We believe that we could get support, and we are ready to work together particularly in the Social Committee in debates on how to address this issue in the areas that I have talked about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u17	I thank the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. Mrs Jana Hnyková, who is now duly applied for, will be prepared by Mrs Chalánková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u18	Thank you. I'll put on my glasses and let's do this. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good afternoon for the second time. Allow me to comment on the amendment to Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on material distress, as amended, and other related laws, House press 256. After his thorough study, I have come to the conclusion that I have to draw attention to some of the serious facts that have already been mentioned here. At the same time, I will also comment on my colleague Sklenák's amendment. When I look at the explanatory report on this amendment and focus on housing conditions, we will find - I quote: "One of the main objectives is to define more precisely the suitable accommodation to which the State will provide housing supplements with the help of hygiene standards and standards of housing quality and their control in cooperation with public health authorities and construction authorities, as well as to establish compliance with these standards and standards with the level of justified housing costs. " Rather, financial savings are assumed because the amount of the housing supplement will apply to the quality of the housing, and it is also proposed that only one housing supplement be provided in the end in one apartment or one other than a residential area. However, a precise calculation of the financial effects of the proposed measures is not possible, as data on hygiene standards and standards of housing quality are currently not known. At the same time, we do not know how many beneficiaries would be affected by the amendment, how many people would be paid for housing due to failure to comply with these standards and standards, so we do not know how much money would be saved from the state budget in this way. The proposed legislation will guarantee the rights and obligations of persons in material distress and will also guarantee their claim to material security. It will also prevent the pressure of socially endangered population groups into substandard forms of housing. Please remember this - these substandard forms. That's where everything would seem to be okay. However, the amendment proposes to define the terms of the apartment, accommodation and other than living space for the purposes of the Act on Assistance in Material Need. For the clear definition and modulation of the premises in which they live, they are partly based on the specifications under Law No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health, and Decree No. 268/2009 Coll., on Technical Requirements for Construction. A place other than a residential area is proposed to be considered as a place for which, under a contract, a decision or other legal title, it is determined that this space is intended for housing and which also meets housing quality standards. For the purposes of this law, it is therefore proposed to define standards of housing quality other than residential space. These qualitative requirements were selected from Decree No. 268/2009 Coll., on the technical requirements for construction, and their control will be carried out by the construction office, whose competence this issue falls within. The Office of the Work of the Czech Republic will assess, on the basis of the opinion of the Building Office, whether a supplement for housing in such an area can be provided, whether this space is suitable for housing persons. The financial support of the State through the housing supplement is strictly necessary only for accommodation facilities and premises suitable for housing. This means that the quality requirements for these premises must be defined in accommodation facilities and spaces not primarily intended for housing. [[15.30 hours]] This ensures that the citizen is protected not only in terms of the protection of the legal relationship, but also in terms of the suitability of the building or the space for housing. The possibility of providing a supplement to housing is also proposed to the owner who lives in the construction for family recreation, because this property has a similar character to housing in the apartment, family house and is closest to him from the point of view of public building law and provides humanly dignified long-term housing. And we have an amendment from my colleague, Sklenák. With all due respect to you, my colleague, through Mr President, you directly specify in your amendment standards for housing other than living space on buildings for individual or family recreation and their control in Amendment 21, Section 33b para. 1, you add that persons living in these buildings must have unlimited access to drinking water and have a toilet. What kind of toilet is this? Flushing, dry, chemical or Turkish? I don't know. I understand your motivation for making this proposal with your social feelings, but tell Mrs. Ombudsman and Minister Dienstbier that on the one hand, the conditions for housing are tightened and people can live in garden houses and huts on the other. It's an absolute contradiction. I know, you're specifying: he must have access to drinking water and he must have a toilet. I'm asking, where does it go? Where are we going with this law? You will draw from the statistics that between 2001 and 2011, the number of people living in recreational facilities has tripled to 35 000 people. You are defending your amendment by saying that if people were to deal with their housing situation by negotiating commercial housing, it would cost us more. So it's actually convenient for the state to have people living in garden houses and cabins that meet the conditions of decent housing? I ask again: How can we allow the conditions of apartments and residential hotels to be tightened, and here we will allow the housing supplement to be provided? How did people come to live here? After all, when I lose my job by common sense, I find myself in a material need and first I have to sell my property to make a living. I don't give up living in an apartment, I don't keep a garden with a garden house or a cottage. I know, they both have to have the bathroom and access to drinking water. And now, ironically, I have to add: what if we add this bill to other accommodation facilities such as caravans, tents, those can be in the camp, they are also equipped with drinking water and toilets. There are no bunkers used in our border areas. If we take out the shots, put in the windows, people can live there, too. Why don't you put in the cellars, the soil, the pigsties! Let's lower the building conditions wherever people live. And get them to apply for a fix and we'll pay them back, and it'll be fine. How they live is not important. We live in the 21st century and say that our country is on a high level in the protection of rights. You know, dear colleagues, when I'm passing through our country and I see a lot of abandoned recreation centers, I wonder how these objects will be used in the future? I know! What about businessmen with human misery? What is not to be used after the amendment to the Law on material distress for this purpose? Everything can be arranged. Chats are sold for a kiss to be granted ownership rights, or a deal is made, and money from the Treasury will go back into the pocket of those who abuse it. What do you think? In our country, you can take advantage of everything! Instead of the Ombudsman and Minister Dienstbier seeking a law on social housing, to establish an effective strategy for integrating these people into society - and to emphasise once again effective - the conditions in the amendment on material distress are specified so that people can live in garden houses and huts as well. Just a condition, as we've heard, access to drinking water and toilet. At this point, I'm not going to forgive the remark on Mrs. Ombudswoman. People often address me with one basic question. Who is this lady, the Ombudsman, defending? What rights of what citizens? And then the second question comes up. Who really defends the rights of Czech citizens? You elected her and see what she's doing and how she's expressing herself. Where will Czech citizens find the call? Now we have a proposal from her that people live in garden houses and huts. Attention, they must really have the toilet and drinking water! It makes me very sad. People's lives are very short, and instead of finding solutions and fulfilling solutions, we're looking for loopholes to soften things up. kolega of Sklenák, through Mr President, I am sincerely sorry, but I believed that from the bowels of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is led by your Minister, there will come a proposal that will ensure dignified conditions for all people who need help. I mean, your party has social in its name. At our club, I will propose that we discuss and consider the support of this amendment at third reading once again, even though we have finally come to its discussion. I'm not satisfied with the outcome. Few things have been fixed in it, and I do not believe that it will bring savings to the state budget. Finally, I ask: Will all those who find themselves in difficult situations live in dignified conditions or as described in the explanatory report? Are we going to prevent the pressure of socially endangered population groups into substandard housing forms, or are we going to expand them even further? Everyone responds to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u19	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Roman Sklenák, President of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, will outrun Ms Chalánková with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u20	Thank you for the floor. I cannot speak after Mrs Hnyková has given such a great deal of space to my amendment. I do not know if all Members know the amendment and I do not know if Mrs Hnyková's words understand what is going on, so I would like to explain. Of course, there is no question of crowding people in material distress into garden cabins. But the reality is that many people who find themselves in existential problems just live in garden cabins. That's reality. And according to today's legislation, they are not entitled to provide benefits in material distress, they are not entitled to a housing supplement. In other words, if this person moves to an overpriced hostel where he's in one room with ten other people, he's entitled to the housing supplement, but if he lives in a garden cabin in need, he's not entitled to the benefits. And we're just saying that if the object is his own - that's the point, please, it's crucial that it's not that someone rents these objects of course, that's definitely not the point - but if they own the object and they live there, so that the surcharge, in this case on energy, can be provided to him. So that is the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u21	I will also ask my colleague Chalánková to be patient because two people with priority rights have applied, this is Minister Dienstbier and President Tomio Okamura. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u22	Mr Vice-President, Madame Members, Roman Sklenák has partially crossed over what I wanted to talk about. Because it's not really hurting those people who already live there, but their situation is improving. And I would like to point out here that this bill is a kind of pull-on for the emergency brake, especially in relation to the abuse of benefits to so-called. hostels. Everyone's talking about it now, everyone's using it in the election campaign, so I hope for this reason everyone will support this bill. [[15.40 hours]] If it's mentioned here that it's not intended to banish people into substandard housing, that's absolutely true, I can only sign it. And it is also the government's goal after this first step, which, as I said, is a rescue rather than a long-term conceptual one, to prepare a bill on social housing, and that is what is being worked on. It is not easy, it will not be immediately, but it is a commitment by this government to put forward such a proposal during this parliamentary term, which should then be more conceptually addressed in people's housing precisely in standard forms of housing, not in residential hotels, but in modest, decent, adequate housing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u23	Yes. Mr President Okamura will be overtaken by his party colleague Karel Fiedler with a factual remark, because the factual point takes precedence over a proper performance, albeit with priority rights. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. I'll take your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'll be really short. I didn't want to do this, but I was really provoked by Minister Dienstbier, who mentioned the election campaign here. It's the second time today, so I'd take the liberty of grasping the subject. Yes, Minister, you have it on your billboards, you use it in the election campaign, you say, "Finished! Dear public, we're just discussing this, so somebody's lying!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u25	Thank you. Before Mr Tomio Okamura takes the floor, I shall make an apology to the President of the House, Mrs Anna Putnová, at 16 o'clock. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on my party colleague Mr Fiedler. Yes, I saw not only the billboards of the ČSSD as regards the law on material distress, i.e. a housing supplement that's met, but it's a lie. ČSSD is lying to the public because we're all sitting here now and we're still discussing it, so how can this be done? But I've seen other billboards, and I'd follow up on that. I've seen that the ČSSD deals with executions, that it's against executors and loan shark! But I haven't seen it here, and I don't know -- there's almost 200 of us here, if anyone else saw it, maybe, as my eyes are a little slantier, I can't see -- but was there any government proposal about executors? Was there a single government motion on executors in ten eleven months since we've been in the House? There wasn't one! So what's he doing here? Yes, there were two suggestions about the executors we were discussing. One was from the right-wing opposition and the other was the Dawn movement, which wanted to introduce local jurisdiction of executors, i.e. what most countries of the European Union - most of the countries of the European Union - have to prevent the debt business. [[repeats with emphasis]] And they're putting on a billboard something they didn't even submit, and they're not even in the negotiations. But I'm going back to the law. Then one would shed a tear again, fighting here for the abuse of bribes, fighting for citizens who are in garden houses and cabins because they don't have money. But let's ask -- and I didn't say for myself what I started -- why don't they have money? Well, that's because they're often victims of executors and loan sharks! So you're dealing with step two again, and so you're not dealing with it, you're only dealing with it on a billboard, because it's not really fulfilled, it's not even presented. And the essence, that is. to counter interest on interest on consumer interest, which was once again the proposal of the Dawn movement, which was rejected by this government coalition, although, as we know, about half of the European Union's countries have had interest on consumer credit - it is an analysis of the Parliamentary Institute, not Dawn. So you didn't do anything about loan sharks so people wouldn't end up in those garden houses. About the executors, so that people wouldn't be victims of a state-sanctioned loan shark, you didn't do anything either. But what you've done is that it continues with taxpayers' money, i.e. The decent ones, not those who parasite in human misfortunes, you continue to support this system. That's the essence I wanted to say. So, please, let's stop with the words and start with the actions. And once again, I would like you to propose - and here again I remind you, when you have already rejected, our proposal for the Dawn against loan sharks, so that the government will finally propose its own. When you're talking about social housing, we didn't hear it was supposed to be until 2016. So your way of social housing or a proposal for citizens is probably a garden house with some toilet or some tap or well - these are really appalling suggestions. That means let's really get back to dealing with executors. My colleague, Černoch, is the chairman of the committee under constitutional law. There's already an analysis from the Justice Department, though, I'd say not entirely optimal, as we looked at it that way. There are parliamentary initiatives across the political spectrum, and I hope that in the fall you will support this joint amendment so that we can finally move along with the bailiffs. Thank you for your attention. And really, let's keep the pre-election rhetoric and the pre-election populism that actually shows some parties here. I'd like to see the laws here on the table. I'd like to see us vote on them here, but it's not that anybody here is saying they're dealing with usury and execution, and they haven't been able to put forward a single or one government proposal yet. And I see that there's somebody smiling from the ČSSD, like the chairman of the MP's club here, but I'm saying, there's not a single government proposal on the table here. Neither. And you can laugh all you want, because we didn't have a single government proposal here on the table in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u27	If it wasn't to abuse the control position - but there's no one to replace me to say it from the counter, I'd add something to it, but I'm not gonna deliver. Please, my colleague Chalánková has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u28	I'm looking around to see if I can really talk. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give a little more thought to this bill. We have already had two proposals here in plenary which have been dealt with in this regard. It was both a Senate proposal and a government proposal here. It has already been said that there is a danger of crowding some people out of the very housing facilities or non-residential premises that do not meet the hygiene standards of so far standard housing. It's also in my possession. And now let's talk about some numbers. It is true that the housing supplement was increased in absolute value, for example between 2010 and 686 million. CZK up to CZK 1,673 million until 2012. Crowns. However, it is also true that the number of beneficiaries of these benefits in 2010 has risen from 22 881 persons to 41 471 persons. How could this happen? The reason for this is that more and more people are getting into this situation of material emergency and are reaching just those areas where they are already entitled to this housing supplement. I have dealt with this issue for a long time and we also deal with it on the Committee on Social Policy, which adopted the following resolution in January 2014: Committee on Social Policy Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic: 1. Takes note of information on the solution to the social housing issue; 2. Asks the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister for Local Development -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u29	My colleague, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace again! [[Mrs Chalánková wants to proceed immediately.]] Just a minute. [[Still noisy in the hall.]] My colleagues, my colleague, if you are discussing something other than paragraph No. 14, print 256, please move your discussions to the foyer and let those dealing with this text present their contributions properly. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u30	Thank you. So I repeat: 2. Calls on the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister for Regional Development and the Minister for the Interior to deal with the issue of social housing and homelessness together; 3. Instructs Jitka Chalánková to coordinate the expert debate with the participation of Members of the committees concerned, representatives of ministries and experts on the subject; 4. Asks the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister for Regional Development and the Minister for the Interior to start work on drafting a draft law on social housing without delay. - That was January. 5. Calls on the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister for Regional Development and the Minister for Home Affairs to revise the concept of social housing so that it is consistent with the concept of solving the problem of homelessness and the strategy of combating social exclusion in cooperation with all relevant partners, with a deadline of six months. [[15.50 hours]] We do not have an answer to this resolution. The work started in some way only in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, I have no further information. I hope that we will pass on this information, because the Committee on Social Policy insists on it even in the form of an accompanying resolution by Mr Soukup. Now specifically on this bill. There has already been a danger of crowding out people who will lose their housing. The loss of housing is threatened by 100 to 200,000 people, and by setting hygiene standards, which is certainly correct, and we all want people to live in the right housing, so there is an immediate loss of housing especially for families with children and it is up to 25,000 people. What happens to them isn't the law. Of the total amount of these funds that go into the supplement and housing allowance, this amounts to about 28 percent. So it really isn't the whole amount. That is why I am quite reluctant to take this proposal. Another problem is a completely unclear reason, unless it is purely administrative that a new circle of persons considered together will be drawn up according to those who fall under the subsistence allowance. I understand. It is certainly administratively possible, but at present we have the opportunity to jointly assess those who actually live together, and labour officials can actually judge that. That's more my question on this issue. If it's just an administrative change, where I'm looking for logic quite in vain. Now I would like to say further that I have been dealing with this issue for at least seven years. I am currently also a member of the Social Housing Platform, which has offered my cooperation in this solution, and I have information that the Minister has accepted this cooperation, so I welcome that. At present, this platform proposes to refrain from tightening the payment of benefits at hostels until a real alternative in the form of social housing is provided. It is necessary to support from the means of benefits in material distress bail in standard rental housing as well as annual energy billing. It is true that there are already really good and valid studies, such as Mr Štěpán Ripka, who developed the analysis of the functioning of social hostels in Bílina, other Mr Martin Lux, Mr Sunega and so on. I have permission to quote them. Here I will stop at the fact that we can have a negative motivation for the removal of children from the family, for example, which is not possible under the law, but it is actually happening in the field. I have real papers for this, quite specific cases where children are taken away just because Mommy didn't get a supplement for living in the hostel. That day she was evicted, two days later she gave birth to a child who was immediately removed within 24 hours. I'm handling this case specifically. In this case, foster care for a transitional period goes much more money than Mom needed for her own housing. I can prove this case. The system that works with negative motivation is not in line with modern approaches in social work. It is rather a political project, not an empirical basis. Now we hear the sadness of the mayors who want to address this issue. I understand them. I understand that, and we are already far after 12 o'clock, when this issue should have been dealt with conceptually by the law on social housing. Why can't this law be enforced? I am also in contact with the Social Commission of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and there I would say that communication is good but basically insistent. It is true that the Union of Towns and Municipalities does not yet want to find agreement with the wording of the Act on Social Housing, which is available and which means that municipalities should be obliged to take care of their citizens within a certain scope. At the same time, however, in this case, when the Constitution would break through the separate jurisdiction of the municipalities, and in that is the buried dog, it is clear that the municipalities would also have to have resources for this. The discussion in this place remains standing. Mayors should have resources for possible renovation of apartments, building apartments, but in particular they should own 25 to 30 percent of the housing fund available to people at risk of housing, especially for families with children. And here's another thing. That would be a seminar whether to make or not always subject to the condition of social work - yes or no. There are different ways. Housing first, where maybe it's not really there. This problem is indeed a public administration problem. It's not just a question of linking numbers, linking up payments, and the problem goes away. It's not like that. That is why the TOP 09 - although I understand in some way why this bill is put forward - is holding back. Last but not least, I would also point out that we were also approached by the ombudsman's office with an article on Czech justice, where they give us notes that this bill conflicts with the new Civil Code. I'll pass these notes on to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u31	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Now, Mrs Olga Havlová will take the floor. Now I don't have an electronic application for a factual remark, but if that's a factual point, then please. Mr Gabal, with a factual remark before Mrs Havlová, duly applied for. Please make a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u32	Mr President, thank you. Madam Secretary, Government, colleagues, colleagues, a little sighing, I note that it has been eight and a half years since we made the first map of excluded localities, the so-called ghettos, and almost ten years later we are talking about one of the basic things and problems. From this title, I would very much advocate that we start taking action and take the first step in the form of a bill. I agree with all the reservations that President Stanjura and others have called for in order to continue the work. It's obvious, and I think we need to get started. First of all. Two. I appreciated that there were no calls for eviction abroad. That's quite progress. But I would like to point out that the result of regulation will be that a small part of people lose their housing, because at that point, as soon as the poverty business stops paying off, many people stop running it. And I think that's where we need to move quickly to plan and map out where we're gonna put these people so they don't find themselves on the street. In the residential hotels we have them after eight years, when they fell from the original excluded localities or mixed housing estates or something similar that lived up, and it withdrew them to the residential hotels. The last comment also on the margo challenges to play a greater role as self-government, and it's technical information. Unfortunately, the situation had to escalate until today in order for the authorities to act. Because in the beginning, it was the self-government that created the segreged ghetto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u33	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u34	Last one. I agree with the complexity of the problem of dealing with usury, gambling and other things. So the task force that will be created for this is appropriate and I like to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u35	I'm patience alone, but there's not so much claimed. Okay, well, at least we cut back on the talk show. Now, Mrs Olga Havlová, my colleague Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u36	Mr President, Members of the Government, colleagues, I am very pleased that the House is finally dedicated to the draft, which is intended to address such an urgent situation regarding the residential hotels, and as confirmed by the debate at the first reading of this law, the House of Hostels and the abuse of housing supplements is a serious issue. However, the situation is not improving. The Agency for Social Inclusion is currently registering 30 risk areas where there is an obvious problem with the abuse of these benefits in material distress. [[16.00 hours]] I have been on this issue for a long time and this is not the first legislation to address the situation. Already last year, an amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need was submitted, which was intended to introduce two main principles: firstly, the reduction of the housing supplement according to the price map, secondly, the suspension of the payment of the housing supplement by fulfilling technical and hygienic standards in the apartment or in the hostel to which the supplement is paid. A government amendment to the law addresses this issue, but unfortunately it is not enough. We consulted experts directly in the most risky areas and, unfortunately, identified several obvious errors in the government's draft, which will cause the housing supplement to continue to be abused. The problem is the control of the conditions...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u37	One more time, I'd like to ask for peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u38	The problem is mainly to check the conditions for payment of the housing surcharge, which relate mainly to technical and hygiene standards, and according to the government's proposal only to check the conditions for the operation of the hostel. That's not enough. The check shall be made compulsory and repeated. Pleasure with the hostels is a big mess and I don't like it rudely. Unfortunately, from experience in our Moravian-Silesian region, I doubt that the business with hostels will really be reduced by the government. The huge welfare benefits paid to poor entrepreneurs by the state are inadaptable to the clients' octopus, which operates the ghettos of an inadaptable finished paradise. Specifically, in Ostrava-Vítkovice, Mr Dlabal supports business with these hostels as well as the Social Democratic Mayor. Perhaps because his partner, the current representative of Moravian Ostrava, Jan Krtička, who used to be the head of the Committee on Housing Policy and Property Sales and Magistrates, operates a completely devastating business for Vítkovice. He buys houses for a buck, accommodates them inadaptable, collects generous state subsidies, so-called. a social supplement to housing, and then it's completely settled trying to sell back to the city for small money. Profitable business - cheap from the town hall to buy, dearly rent and sell the city back, all with the support of the mayor. As long as politicians go to their influential parties, thugs don't disappear from town halls. We therefore advocate in the amendments that there should be no possibility, as the government states, but also an obligation, even to repeatedly check applicants for benefits in material distress. The State should look very carefully at the checks on the payment of benefits and re-examine the applicants precisely in order to avoid abuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u39	Thank you. Mr Bendl will be next, Mr Fiedler will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u40	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you a few experiences that I have since I was a municipal politician. I was the mayor of Kladno, where it was necessary to address the issue of socially weak people and at the same time socially inadaptable to me. I would like to warn from the experience that I have with this document that we have a conceptual focus, say, by calculating the contribution to housing and based on the price map, because all those who have ever had something in common with this document know that it has been created for quite a long time and that it is unable to capture such rapid changes such a type will go away by a large investor, a big employer, suddenly from one day to the next a large number of people who find themselves in a social emergency, and there is a need to solve some problem, as in reverse price maps are not able to capture the fact that a large investor will come and suddenly the price of land and real estate will rise in general. This happens, and the price map as well as the exit - and one of the previous speakers pointed it out - based on the prices of real estate agencies is also nonsense, because it is always an actual issue and not a conceptual one. The State should be conceptual in this regard and should not assume that two or three real estate agencies, or the only one that is in that place, suddenly start to determine the rules of the game regarding the housing contribution. That's one serious point from my point of view. Then the other one. I come from a region where they are, I dare say, tens of thousands of garden huts and cottages. There may be up to half of Pražák's people moving on weekends, or a significant part of them live permanently in the Central Bohemia region, even though they have their permanent residence formally in Prague, and live in cottages and cottages. But I also know that there are cottages where there are many cottages abandoned, because older generations no longer have the strength to live there, to take care of it all, and the young generation, they don't say much about weekends at the cottage. The price of these cottages goes down rapidly, however accessible drinking water is, as it was said here, but there are toilets, even though they are not specified in the Social Democrats' amendment. You can imagine for yourself what toilets there are often in those garden settlements. I would very much not like to see Mr Sklenák and Dienstbier's amendment to the situation where we will alert speculators to this space, to the chance to make some chat settlements ghettos and start speculating and buying them out for minimum money, and then to people who are in need, in a situation where they have no solution, they will start to offer them: Look, you can live here for a few crowns, I will easily rewrite it to you, but here you will write me a debt note or something, that if you do not pay back, I will not eventually give you the chat room or it will not be yours. And actually, in another way, he's gonna start tunneling the state budget and we're gonna start helping speculators. Meanwhile, they will be formed in the Central Bohemia Region and the senator Dienstbier ghetto Senator's Senator from individual chat settlements. I would warn you very much about that. What I support, on the contrary, and I think that everyone who has passed the municipal benches will be right that there is a need for municipalities to have more competence in this regard. I very much ask all those who know the situation so that we can support this proposal, which Zbyněk Stanjura mentioned here, and try to give individual councils competence in order to decide whether such equipment will be on their territory or how it will behave. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u41	The last speaker so far in the general debate is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u42	Good afternoon, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues, once again. I'd like to go on this agenda one more time. I would like to recall, on the basis of what has been said here today and in connection with the agenda of this meeting, that we have already discussed a similar proposal here. It was December, I think it was December, when a similar proposal was made by our movement. He was rejected then. We could have discussed this, we could have discussed it, we could have made amendments and we could have been much further today. In the meantime, the situation is that, as I have read from the available media, and please the Minister to comment whether or not this is the case, but I think that these are the data that are available, that we pay a month to support social housing, basically for the hostels, one billion. I'm pumping data from the media that's been presented. That is why I am addressing you, Madam Secretary, so that you can comment. In any case, whether the amount is what I have mentioned here, or another, or less, these are financial amounts that have been paid for some time. If we had dealt with this law here before and modified it, perhaps our proposal, the situation could have been resolved for a number of people long ago. We would certainly contribute some amount to the state budget - we were here dealing with a billion in income tax, in value added tax, and some crown would certainly be saved in the state budget. The second paradox that has been made here today is that we are dealing with accommodation for people who live in one room of several families, several people - I am also from the Moravian-Silesian Region - and perhaps paradoxically the situation, we are getting back to the well-known company NWR and RPG Apartments that there are free apartments, paradoxically. Not all apartments are occupied. On the one hand, we're dealing with where to put people, and we're paying speculators with dormitories really awful amounts, and on the other hand, there are free apartments. Here, let's think about whether it's okay where we've gone. [[16.10 hours]] Minister Dienstbier is no longer here as I look. I think the Minister of Human Rights might also be able, instead of some, to really, let's say, not exactly logical proposals, to deal with why these people are having trouble renting these vacant flats, where the contribution of the state would not be as high as the speculators with the hostels. I was also intrigued by what Mrs Chalánková said here, where she mentioned that it would probably be appropriate and reasonable for municipalities to have 20 to 30 percent of the housing fund. I completely agree with that, my colleague. I have the same opinion, but I was struck by it when I heard it, that - I don't blame you, colleague, in any way I don't blame you for saying it as a member of the right-wing party, so I'm thinking -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u43	Colleague, only through me to my colleague Chalánková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u44	I am very sorry to the President and especially to my colleague through Mr President. I was struck by the fact that you, as a representative of the right-wing party, mentioned this. I don't blame you at all. I'm telling you, I'm in line with you, with that opinion. But if by any chance we didn't go overboard with the privatization especially in the housing fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u45	Mrs Chalánková, indeed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u46	I've been approached in some way, so I'll take the liberty of responding in all fairness. I am a member and representative of the Conservative Party, and for me the protection of families, children and housing, so that they have a place to live, is really a priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u47	In the general debate, Mr Opálka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues, allow me to make some general remarks. The problem is that we're dealing with the consequences here, but not the causes. Causes of great unemployment, weirdness, gambling, but also reckless privatization of the housing fund. It must be said that the demands that are due to the labour market and social situation do not shrink but increase. Previously, they were given the necessary resources of the state as a hand-to-hand aid. However, they did not always pay in time to the owners or operators of the apartment or hostel, so a change took place during the time of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Petr Nečas and these contributions are provided directly to the owners and founders. And, look, there's been a huge business. Since then, we have not been able to stop this problem, to alleviate it. And notice that we've been in office for a year, and we haven't been able to deal with it very quickly. Members, colleagues and colleagues spoke about this. It must be said that we have been accompanied by a new phenomenon that is a warning, and that much more young and middle-aged generations have been getting into homelessness in recent years. This was not on such a scale, and this will, of course, be very difficult for both the social system and social housing. And unfortunately, we don't have--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u49	Ambassador, I'm very sorry, but there's a cell phone ringing somewhere, and it's quite intense, so I'd like to ask - it's on the left, yes - the owner of the phone to use a button to turn it down, because we don't need a musical escort to Mr Opálka's speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u50	Well, in the end, it's like a presentation, if a good tune is chosen, why not? It must be said that the problem is also the reason why we got to the solution so late that there is not one gesture for this problem. The Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs find it difficult to agree on who will be the gessi, who will be in charge of the legislation and who will basically encourage others to cooperate. And so I wanted to say that although we are getting to some section that we will probably support across the political spectrum, but that we will not solve the cause and we will probably not solve what is still ahead of us, and that is a problem for people to have a job, a reward for which they will, of course, buy their own apartment or rent, and thus reduce the cost of the state. It's the only way to help yourself. That's a few notes on my part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since there are no more applications for the general debate, I am ending it. I'll ask the Secretary if he wants the final word at this stage. If he doesn't want to, he doesn't have to. He does. If he wants to, please, Madam Secretary, now is the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u52	Sorry, I'm sorry for the confusion. I wanted - thank you for the word - to comment briefly on the contributions. I wanted to say that we must realise that this situation has really been neglected for years. We've already said about privatization. The community now only owns 10 percent of the housing fund. That is why the issue of social housing is so complex and that is why the deadline for 2016 is simply realistic for me. I repeat, for 20 years no one's agreed on this, and I'm not the one who's gonna tear this place apart. The discussion just has to take place. This proposal, this amendment, I really consider it such first aid. I agree that this is the first step, that this is the thing that needs to be done further. As I say, we are in a situation where this issue has been neglected for years. Otherwise, in terms of progress on work on social housing, we must present to the government the concept of social housing by the end of this year, where there will already be some basic theories. The work is going on, the working groups are working. Otherwise, I'd like to comment on the control. There is currently an obligation for the hostel to have operational rules, and if the levy is paid into them, then it must have the consent of hygiene, the approval of the building office must be there. That's one of those things that's new. As far as the circle of persons considered together is concerned, yes, it is also administrative simplification, but it also allows us to judge those who are actually using it and not only those who need to be reported there for permanent residence. In order to make this work better, there should also be personnel reinforcement of people from the employment offices. That means there'll be more people to check in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u53	Thank you, too. The rapporteur also wishes to say a few words after the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u54	Thank you for the floor. I'll briefly sum up the debate. From my point of view, we have recorded a total of 17 contributions on this subject, my colleague Chalánková has spoken twice, and my colleague Okamura and colleague Fiedler have also spoken twice. They were all material. One time, my colleague Kováčik here said that almost everyone spoke on the subject. In this case, in addition to the two speeches which were rather political, I think Mr Okamura and Mr Fiedler on the billboards of the Czech Social Democratic Party, this was all material. [[16.20 hours]] The subject is clear, and we are all in the debate, all of us discussing the fact that this first step, and so everyone understands it, is very necessary, it is a step in the right direction, it really restricts the huge deal with the problem of human poverty, and that was supported by a dramatic increase in the amount of the social housing supplement. The important thing appeared in the debate, namely that the Minister in coordination and in cooperation with other ministers immediately, or it is necessary for him to start working on a new law on social housing to address the issue. Complexly in this case, there was a consensus, because a new law is needed. As regards the specific points that were mentioned by the various debaters, Mr Tomio Okamura noted that the Úsvit movement would support this proposal, and he had some comments on the price map, where he himself made it clear that it is not mandatory yet, some municipalities do not, so it is difficult to take it as a guide. But Dawn will vote in favour. Mr Stanjura expressed some experience especially from the Ostrava self-government, where there was a very good idea that municipalities should probably have great authority in the new law so that they could decide for themselves whether or not there will be a hostel in the locality, in the locality, in the locality, in the given territory. He also dealt with the technical and other things contained in the design. Just like Mrs Hnyková. She also headed into controversy with the amendment made by Mr Sklenák, who immediately explained how this was meant, and explained that a number of people who have problems with housing are heading themselves and voluntarily to those chats, cabins, etc. The debate was factual, Mrs Chalánková said something about statistics. I'm just reminding you, it's already 2.6 billion. for last year's annual social housing payments, so a huge business. Mr Gabal and Mrs Havlová spoke about risk areas and the need for an immediate solution. The other debaters were basically just summing up some partial problems. Overall, it can be said that the debate was really fruitful and that the proposal, probably with the amendments that have been made and yet to come, will probably have the support of the House. So short a summary of our debate so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u55	Thank you for the very professional work of the rapporteur. At this stage, because there was nothing that we should vote on, I am opening up a detailed debate. With priority for a detailed debate. That is why President Stanjura has the floor, and Mrs Havlová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u56	I have announced in the general debate that I will read the amendments. I mean, the amendments will essentially affect two areas. First, the powers of the municipalities to agree that a specific hostel can be paid an additional payment for housing and at the same time that an additional payment for housing can only be paid either in apartments or hostels so that no additional payment for housing in other premises can be made. To be exact, I'm going to quote it on the microphone, the amendment. First, in Amendment No. 20, § 33 para. 6 in the second sentence, to the end of the sentence, the words shall be added: "in the case of the consent of the municipality on whose cadastral territory the accommodation facility is located'. This is a reason for special consideration that the housing supplement can also be paid in hostels. This one, if we accept it, will say that it can only be paid there if the municipality agrees. We don't forbid anyone to run a hostel, we're just saying, if the hostel owner wants to draw state money, he should have the approval of the municipality. And then to the second problem, that is. in order for the housing supplement to be paid only in apartments or accommodation facilities, I propose a new version of Amendment 21, and now, if I may, it is five paragraphs, for formal reasons I have to load all five paragraphs of this Amendment 21. Point 21 reads: The following Section 33a is inserted after Section 33a, including the title: § 33a Apartment and accommodation facility Paragraph 2 1. For the purposes of this Act, an apartment is a set of rooms or individual rooms which meet the requirements for permanent housing by their technical arrangement and equipment and are classified as an apartment under the Construction Act for this purpose. Paragraph 2 is Accommodation facilities for the purposes of this Act shall mean accommodation facilities for this purpose designated under the Construction Act or co-financed as a hostel meeting the requirements of the Construction Act, implementing decrees of the Construction Act and related legislation in force on the date of entry into force of this Act. If accommodation in such facilities is provided for a period of more than two months in a period of six months consecutive, it must comply with the conditions laid down in Section 21a of the Public Health Act. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 reads: For the purposes of this Act, a set of rooms which form a building for individual or family recreation or a separate room which forms a building for individual or family recreation are also considered to constitute a building where these buildings are used by the owner for permanent housing and are intended for this purpose by or for this purpose by the construction law. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 reads: In cases of worthy special consideration, part of the apartment may also be considered for the purposes of this Act if the apartment meets the conditions laid down in paragraph 1. If there are more than one person living in this apartment who is not jointly assessed for this purpose, the amount of the justified housing costs for the whole apartment shall be determined and, if the housing allowance is granted under the State Social Aid Act, this allowance shall be deducted from the justified housing costs for the whole apartment and further followed by Section 8. Paragraph 2 is This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the request of the authorities in material distress, the construction office responsible for the approval of the construction shall carry out the following: This is the whole new version of Section 33a. I must say that it is almost identical to the government proposal, but in order to vote on the changes, I had to read all five paragraphs. Thank you for your attention and I believe that by next Wednesday, when we vote on the amendments at third reading, we will find agreement, and I believe that these proposals have a chance of support, because they are the experience of Ostrava's self-government, but they do not deviate from the experience of other authorities who face this problem in their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u57	Thank you. Another one for a detailed debate, Mrs Havlová, will be prepared by Mrs Nytrová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u58	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to sign up for the amendments that are included in the system under the numbers 1356 and 1375. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u59	Thank you. Mrs Nytrová. Mrs Nytrová! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u60	As part of the amendment to the Act on material distress, I propose that the payment of the supplement for housing in non-residential premises be released in accordance with the construction law and complying with the requirements of the Construction Act, the implementing decrees of the Construction Act and the related legislation in force on the date of entry into force of the proposed Act. Avoiding housing costs being included in housing costs in areas other than those intended for that purpose, i.e. intended as an apartment or hostel in accordance with the construction law and meeting the requirements of the construction law, the implementing decrees of the construction law and the related legislation in force on the date of entry into force of the proposed law. Release any references to other than residential space and § 33b.Delete the proposed § 33b, standards of housing quality other than residential space and their control. Allow the payment of the housing supplement only in premises designated as an apartment or hostel in accordance with the construction law and complying with the requirements of the construction law and implementing decrees of the construction law and related legislation applicable on the date of entry into force of the proposed law. [[16.30 hours]] Within the framework of the proposed Section 33a, the following adaptations shall be made: Apartment and accommodation facilities. Paragraph 1. For the purposes of this Act, an apartment is a set of rooms, or one living room, which meets the requirements for permanent housing by its technical arrangement and equipment and is designed for this purpose according to the construction law and is classified as an apartment. Release paragraph 2. Paragraph 2 is new: For the purposes of this Act, accommodation facilities intended for this purpose under the Construction Act or co-financed as a hostel meeting the requirements of the Construction Act, implementing decrees of the Construction Act related to the legislation in force on the date of entry into force of this Act. If accommodation in such facilities is provided for a period of more than two months in a period of six months consecutive, it must comply with the conditions laid down in Section 21a of the Public Health Act. Paragraph 3. For the purposes of this Act, a set of rooms which constitute a building for individual or family recreation or a separate room which constitutes a building for individual or family recreation are also considered to constitute a building where such buildings are used by the owner for permanent housing and are intended for this purpose under or for this purpose by the construction law. Paragraph 4. In cases of worthy special consideration, part of the apartment may also be considered for the purposes of this Act if the apartment fulfils the conditions laid down in paragraph 1. If there are more than one person living in this apartment who is not judged together for purposes, the amount of justified housing costs for the whole apartment shall be determined and, if the housing allowance is granted under the State Social Aid Act, this allowance shall be deducted from the justified housing costs for the whole apartment and further followed by Section 8. Paragraph 5. The assessment of the criteria set out in paragraphs 1 to 3 shall, at the request of the authorities in material distress, be carried out by the building authority responsible for authorising the construction. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u61	The rapporteur also for a detailed debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u62	One amendment. Section 34a, the last sentence to be added. Maximum amount of single bed allowance in the accommodation facility defined under § 33a para. 3 is 1000 crowns per calendar month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-006-014.u63	Thank you. This is probably how we have exhausted the detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. Let me ask you about the final words. Not interested. There has also been no proposal that we should vote at this stage, so in that case, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. We'll continue with point 12, which is
