ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u1	132. The case of Denis and David Michalákův in Norway I would like to inform you that the basis for this point has been delivered to you on the bench, and either it has been, or the material containing the motion for a resolution will also be delivered to you. I ask the appellant of this point, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you that, thanks to your vote by the House, this item, the case of Denis a David Michalákův, was included in the discussion of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. This is also a very important signal that the Czech Republic sees this case very seriously and wants to be involved in it. It also wants to show Norsko that it wants to discuss this issue and that it wants to send a signal. So thank you again for this opportunity. At the same time, I would also like to thank the President, who is following this case and this is how I have said it. At the same time, I would like to thank the members of the petition committee for the return of Michalákův children to the Czech Republic, who selflessly write individual petition sheets in their positions, give them for signing and also set up an account to assist Mrs Michaláková. Now, to the point. First, basic facts. I believe that I have made a number of interventions on both the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and the various relevant Resort Ministers several times since March of this year. Let me also assure you that the motion for a resolution I am going to submit is based on these interventions and also on the replies of the various ministers to these interventions. Denis and David's children were taken three years ago from a Czech mother living in Norway on suspicion of using violence and sexual abuse by her father and placed in foster care. The mother categorically denies the accusations from the start and only admits a normal educational high five when it comes to the use of violence. Neither the Norwegian police nor the medical reports confirmed the report of the kindergarten nor the temporary foster home, and no criminal charges were filed in the most serious accusations. Nevertheless, children remain in foster care of two different Norwegian families, and their mother is only allowed to see them twice a year for two hours. The right to contact is also denied to other family members who live in the Czech Republic. Currently, there is a risk that the mother will be completely deprived of parental rights, and the children will be given up for adoption in Norway. [[14.30 hours]] The Czech authorities and government officials have so far acted formalistically and expressed ignorance of Norwegian laws in their argument, calling on the family and calling for the exhaustion of all remedies in Norway. No so-called. there are no remedies in the specific system of child protection in Norway. Parents may apply only at annual intervals for the child's return to care theoretically until he is 18 years old. These applications are usually rejected first because of doubts about improving the situation in the biological family, later with reference to the fact that the child has already established firm ties with the foster family. How many times do parents have to file such lawsuits, they're nowhere to be determined. When the limit of remedies is exhausted, there is nowhere to be determined. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] If you would like to know more judicatures on this matter, I have had you present a preliminary report on this House press, on this motion for a resolution, both electronically and in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u3	I'm very sorry, but the noise level is unbearable. I've already put some groups in the lobby with gestures, but there are still a lot of noise sources left. I'm looking significantly to the right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u4	Despite the slim chance of success, this lawsuit, Eva Michaláková, is about to be brought. It is assisted by Norwegian representatives whose expensive legal services are covered by the proceeds of the collection, which has already brought CZK 359,000 to this day. Thank you to those of you who also contributed to the collection. There are some 9,400 signatures to the petition calling on government officials to take active diplomatic pressure on Norway at that time. Experience from other countries that have been in dispute with Norway in similar cases shows that the only way to return children to their home country is through well-timed and escalated diplomatic pressure on Norway. I therefore welcome the case being dealt with by the Chamber of Deputies. This very fact is a signal for the Norwegian side that the Czech state is ready to stand up for its citizens in difficulty. This can also be important for future decisions of the Norwegian Barnevern service in other cases. It is unacceptable for the siblings Michalákův, both with Czech origin and citizenship, to grow apart in two foreign Norwegian families for no reason, although their own mother and family living in the Czech Republic are fighting for them. The Czech government must stop sticking its head in the sand. In Norway, there is an injustice to Czech citizens and parental rights of the Czech citizen are being trampled on. The government cannot make excuses for not having enough information or for not interfering with legal proceedings in another state. None of the charges against Eva Michaláková that led to her loss of children were confirmed. The police put the cases off, and in the most serious accusations, no one even filed a criminal complaint. I am opposed to the often repeated claims that the mother has not exhausted all remedies. There's an explanation in the accompanying text you're dealing with. The only remedy in Norway is the action against Barnevern's social service. Eva Michaláková can serve this every year until the age of children without returning home. How many laps does Eva Michaláková have to complete in order for those who cling to this mantra to acknowledge that the remedies have been exhausted? At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the legal link of the action brought before the European Court of Human Rights. Mrs Michaláková had to wait until she had officially received the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, because until then, if she brought this action in Norway, it would have prevented the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and vice versa. Therefore, the preparation of this action must not be a reason for the passivity of the Czech Government and of all of us. I will propose to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government be committed to negotiations with Norway. In particular, it is necessary to ask for an explanation of why Czech citizens remain in the foster care of foreign people, even though the original reason for placing children in foster care has passed away. At the same time, I expect the Czech Government to address the Norwegian party with the question whether the Norwegian authorities were concerned or concerned with the possibility of asking for cooperation from the authorities of the Czech Republic and in cooperation with them entrusting children to the care of their Czech relatives. The Norwegian central authorities may not enter the case, but there is no obstacle to contacting the local Barnevern Nedre Eiker, who decided to remove and divide children. If there are really serious reasons for the removal and distribution of children, nothing prevents this institution from explaining its position to the authorities of the Czech Republic. Barnevern is refusing any communication. Why do you think? Let us ask whether these people would decide again how they would decide if they knew what resistance their decision would be to the Czech Republic, and they knew that they would be forced to defend their decision at an interstate level. Since it does not have to be the last time that Czech children are being held by Barneverne, I consider it necessary for the President of the Republic and the Government to initiate an international treaty with Norway at the same time. It should establish a mutual obligation to inform each other of all administrative and judicial proceedings concerning minors of the other Contracting Party. It is a matter that I informed you about when we received information that Norway is not a party to the so-called Contracting Party. The Hague Convention. That is precisely the problem that the Czech Party then has no information from Norway. I propose two motions for a resolution. For clarity, they will be marked A and B. I generally comment on them. Proposition A relates directly to the case of Michalákův. It's quite extensive, but I think it's necessary. The individual points follow each other. Point 1 lists six basic principles by which the removal of children must always be governed. I will not read them until I have read the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate. Point 2 declares that no decision can be recognised contrary to the principles set out in point 1. Point 3 asks the Government to try to find out the details of the case from the Norwegian side, thus giving Norway a chance to explain and defend its position. However, the fact that Norway refuses to explain anything, as well as the decisions of the Norwegian authorities and their justifications available to us so far, suggest that there has been a fatal error and irreversible damage to the human rights of members of the Michalákův family. The Czech Republic must defend the human rights of Czech citizens abroad at least as vehemently as it defends respect for the human rights of foreigners. Therefore, point 4 in case Norway does not demonstrate the legitimacy of its interventions, calls on the Government to act diplomatically or possibly. other measures that would lead to Norway's return to the homeland of illegally detained minors of Czech citizens. I want to say that there will be a formulation on the basis of this point, that I call on the government to make a great effort. You will then see in a detailed debate. Point 5 draws the Government's attention to the possibility of bringing an interstate action against Norway under Article 33 of the European Convention on Human Rights. She's asking her to consider this possibility. While the provision of classical diplomatic protection would mean to promote an international dispute, this dispute on a private level, similar to that of the 1990s, e.g. the dispute between Slovakia and Hungary on the waterworks Gabčíkovo-Nagymaros, which dealt with under international law, i.e. negotiations, mediation, etc. These can mostly be time-consuming ways. On the contrary, the interstate lawsuit is a relatively standard procedure. The advantage is that other countries whose citizens are affected by the poorly set Norwegian child protection system can join the action. I can say for myself that I have attended a conference that I have informed you of, and these states are indeed more interested in common practice. The Norwegian law and practice clearly do not respect the principle in the motion for a resolution referred to in paragraph 1 (1). 3, i.e. lays down factually impossible conditions for the return of children from foster care to parents and foster care, contrary to the case law of the European Court of Justice, does not regard them as a proxy but as a full-fledged, newly established family. Point 6 calls on the executive to initiate an international agreement establishing the mutual obligation of the child care institutions to inform themselves of proceedings concerning minors of the other Contracting Party. This is a response to a situation where the Czech Republic accidentally learned about the Michalákův case on the mother's initiative. It can be assumed that dozens of proceedings concerning minors of Czech nationals are taking place in Norway without the Czech Republic knowing. [[14.40 hours]] And point 7 is a response to a situation where, during the response to my interpelation in the spring of this year, some members have shown a dislike to deal with this case. It is therefore desirable for the House to have control over further government action. However, I propose this item separately for a separate vote. Thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u5	Thank you, Madame. I ask that, under the authority of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs take the floor. Please, you have the floor. I will also apologize to Mr Pražák from today's meeting from 14.30 to 5 p.m. due to a business meeting outside the House. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the floor. We've performed on this case several times. Perhaps I would have responded completely to something that was said here last week, because it now seems like this government, which has been here since January of this year, has ignored this case and not devoted to it, which is why all the blame is on us for what the situation is. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] This case has been dealt with since 2011. Last week we were blamed for not using the only institute that allows children to return to Norway, and that is so-called diplomatic protection. I would like to say here that the proposal for the use of this institute was first proposed at the administrative level in 2011. And then -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u7	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, but especially now from the left side of the hall, there's too much noise. And I see those two, and I'm not gonna name them if they stop. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u8	This means that in October 2011 at the administrative level of the inter-ministerial meeting that dealt with this case, it was proposed to use this institute, by our director of the Office for International Legal Protection in Brno. This proposal was not reflected in any way. The second time, at ministerial level, this took place sometime in February 2013. It was a meeting between former Minister Müllerová and Minister Schwarzenberg. Our government wasn't here at the time. There was a completely different government that decided not to use this institute. So please don't blame us, because there's been a lot of ways to get involved in this case since 2011. Since then, there's been a whole list of operations that have been done. When I speak for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it is about support through the Office for International Child Protection, so there is a whole list of things that have helped the family of these boys, both the mother and her father, which means the grandfather of these children, and also the aunt, which means the mother's sister. I'm not gonna read the whole list here, but we've got it at our disposal, and maybe you've already printed it. Perhaps the most important thing is that those relatives who live here in the Czech Republic were offered free legal assistance. As far as the mother is concerned, because she lives in Norway and it is a hearing before the Norwegian courts, we as the Czech Republic are unable to offer free legal aid, but she is entitled to free legal aid in Norway, which she can use. But according to my information, she refused to use it. However, it is entirely up to her to decide. And now we're at another crucial point, and that's that since spring, as far as I know, since April, there's a chance in Norway that a mother can re-apply a new request to the court to bring the children back into her care. This option has not yet been used. And since we're talking about a case that takes place in Norway under Norwegian law before the Norwegian court, this is an absolutely crucial act. The recommendation for the mother to take advantage of this option was given again by our director of the Office for International Protection in Brno and by the ambassador in Norway, repeatedly, and probably even by his lawyer. We have also talked here about the fact that a mother's lawyer or a family lawyer, if you wish, was filed a complaint against Norway at the European Court of Human Rights and at the end of August, this complaint was rejected by the court not to discuss it. Again, probably because my mother didn't use what I already said that she didn't make this request in Norway. Otherwise, as far as this government is concerned, it has become apparent that the public defender of rights has written a letter to her Norwegian colleague, where she has been given an answer that the Norwegian rights protector cannot intervene specifically in individual cases. I also sent a letter to my ministerial counterpart through the representative office in Oslo. We have not yet received an answer to that. At the same time, the Prime Minister has already acted on the phone, and I prefer to turn it over here, with the ambassador of the Czech Republic in Norway, to deal with the Norwegian Ambassador here in the Czech Republic. [[He's looking in the papers for a while.]] The Prime Minister met with Michalákův's children's grandfather in person. And tomorrow, the Prime Minister's meeting is here with the representatives of the relevant ministries - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Justice and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - at ministerial level. At the same time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has also spoken about this case, just once so far, with his counterpart. At this point, we do not have any legal instruments in hand, I would say, how to influence the case in Norway, but I believe that we are doing our utmost to show the Norwegian side that we are not indifferent to these children and that we are interested in them and that, of course, we want as much information as possible. But I repeat, there was a period of about two and a half years, when this was in the hands of the government, in the hands of those parties that are currently in opposition, and which criticize us most here for inaction, which I think is completely unjustified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u9	Thank you, Minister, and I am opening a general debate. I register the rapporteur's application, respectively. The plaintiffs, but the Minister of Justice came forward first. So now the Minister of Justice has the floor, and then Mrs Chalánková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u10	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to comment on this very sensitive matter. I personally share, of course, the feelings of most Members that the Czech Republic should do its utmost. The government clearly demonstrated its position, I think, as my colleague from the government explained and documented a moment ago. It has also carried out a framework analysis of legal limits that prevents us from being more active, because the absence of international agreements, of course, prevents the Czech Republic from taking advantage of the options it might have. In my opinion, such a stumbling block for similar cases, or when children are taken from foster families, is a different concept of social-law protection for children in individual states and also certain general practices in raising children, which can vary considerably in individual countries. And otherwise, what is harmful to the child and what is not. That is the only way I can explain Norway's position, though I disagree with it. On the other hand, we must respect our options. Those are pretty limited. [[14.50 hours]] According to the latest information, Mrs Michaláková, with her legal representative in Norway and close family, is preparing to take new legal action and since spring of this year it is also open to contact the Norwegian welfare authorities with a request for review of the original decision on the basis of which children were removed. I think that's the most effective and meaningful thing he can do right now. With the fact that the Ministry of Justice has repeatedly declared its helpfulness, its willingness and its assistance, synergies in the event that Czech relatives would like to take advantage of the possibility offered by the European Convention for the transmission of legal aid applications and to ask the Norwegian authorities to provide free legal assistance for possible negotiations in Norway. The Convention allows a person habitually resident in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties who wishes to seek legal assistance in civil, commercial or legal matters in the territory of another Contracting Party to submit his application for legal assistance in the State where he is habitually resident. So, as far as the mother is concerned, she couldn't pass on such a request. However, the Ministry of Justice, as the transmitting authority, is still prepared to provide any assistance to the relatives of the children taken, i.e. and arrange translation of applications and other documents into Norwegian. Otherwise, our remit is lacking, in order to have legitimacy for the negotiations on this matter. I would also like to emphasise that the application for free legal aid, i.e. a specific contribution from the Ministry of Justice to help in this matter, according to the above-mentioned convention, could not be submitted by a mother, but by another relative, because the mother is not normally resident in the Czech Republic, but I think it is necessary to take really all steps. The way children's relatives have approached us recently can also be considered in these intensities and really take advantage of the fact that the Ministry of Justice will provide detailed information. On the other hand, any intervention at the level of Justice Ministers is not appropriate, in my view. First of all, because the Ministry for Children, equal opportunities and social inclusion, is the central body for child care, under which Barnevern is a social protection body. It's not the Justice Department. So, my dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, when you are addressing us with a request for active intervention, we would very much like to provide it, but we are not a partner, not to mention the absence of international conventions and international treaties. The crucial fact is, therefore, that I cannot ask the Norwegian Ministry of Justice to interfere in any way with the decision-making activities of the administrative or judicial authorities. I couldn't do that, even if that authority belonged to the Justice Department. Nor could such a thing be possible from Norway towards our authorities, i.e. if there was a similar case in the Czech Republic and it would concern the Norwegian family, respectively. Norwegian children. So if I sum it up. I have already repeatedly referred to this as the Ministry of Justice at the Chamber of Deputies in the framework of written intercessions, in talks with Members. We're gonna do everything we can to make use of legal options. These are limited, however, the Ministry of Justice is available for support, cooperation, information that will be provided at the appropriate level and to the maximum extent also related to Mrs Eva Michaláková. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u11	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Chalánková is still reporting in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u12	Thank you. I'd respond to a few things. There is no way I want to put this case politically between the parties who are represented in this Chamber of Deputies, or between the former government and the last. It is true that, during the past period of the government, there were retrials in Norway, where mom appealed against the decision of the Regional Commission, then there was the District Court, the Regional Court and the appeal to the Supreme Court and filed before the European Court of Human Rights. So that's why some things were going like this in Norway at the time. I received information about this case until the turn of last year and this year, and immediately I introduced you all to this case. So that's my position on this. If it was said here: the possibility of legal aid in the Czech Republic to family members free of charge - yes. And another: why mother doesn't use free legal aid in Norway. She has already asked for such legal aid, had a Norwegian lawyer and did not lead to a good goal. That is why we have established an account and a collection to help Mrs Michaláková, so that she can pay for quality legal aid, a quality lawyer who is able and willing to go in her dispute against the Norwegian Barneverne. I can assure you that such disputes are very serious, very complex and very difficult. At a conference that took place 3. 10th t. r. in Prague, cases of individual lawyers, individual mothers, individual families have been presented, concerning the ever increasing number of children being taken away in the countries of the Council of Europe, in those Nordic countries, and these legal disputes are really very complex. Then it was said here why the mother did not use the so-called. in the quotation marks of remedies. I have already touched it in my opening comment. My mother may ask again for a new lawsuit, but from April this year. But why hasn't she done so yet? Firstly, I have warned you that it would complicate the process in the European Court of Human Rights and vice versa. What is this lawsuit really about? I will read paragraphs 4 to 21 concerning Norwegian Barneverne legislation: "§ 4-21. Repeal of the decision on custody of the child (1) 1. The Regional Commission may withdraw the decision on custody of the child if there is a high likelihood that parents can provide responsible care for the child. 2. However, the decision cannot be annulled if the child has developed such a relationship with the people and environment in which it is located that the transfer of the child could cause serious problems for the child. 3. Before the decision is annulled, the child's foster parents have the right to express themselves. (2) 1. The Parties may not require that the termination of the custody decision be discussed by the Regional Commission if the case of the Regional Commission or the Courts has been discussed within the last 12 months.' That means he can repeatedly head against the wall every 12 months. '2. Where an application for revocation has not been met in a previous decision or judgment, referring to Sections 4 to 21 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 1 (2) may only be required to renegotiate if it can be demonstrated that significant changes have occurred in the child's situation.' That is, if the mother turns against the Norwegian Barnevern, then she must admit that she has improved, that Barnevern's decision was correct, but she can prove that she has already improved and asks for the child's custody back. However, if he is filing an action or a complaint against the European Court of Human Rights, that is where he is seeking the annulment of the Norwegian Barneverne decision. So it can be argued that bringing an action under Sections 4 to 21 would automatically be a reason to reject a complaint in Strasbourg because the complaint would be dismissed. So that's why she hasn't filed a lawsuit in Norway yet. Because she did not have the decision of the European Court of Human Rights at her disposal. I acknowledge that this government is doing a lot of activities, but we want the result in particular. I would like to thank the President of the Hamáček for sending and personal contact with President Storting. Also to the Prime Minister, as we have been informed, for his activities. She's also a public defender. Here I would like to point out that the Ombudsman, before Mrs Šabatová, Mr Varvařovský, intervened on this issue, and even documented for our purposes the 2002 European Court of Justice ruling in the case of Kutzner, where it is stipulated and written that foster care in no way, even if the child is already fully integrated there, must not replace the care of biological parents. So that's it, that's it. [[15.00 hours]] If Minister Válková here talks about the absence of international treaties, this is why I propose in my resolutions the initiation of such treaties and I will ask the Government to initiate negotiations to negotiate such agreements. And in Part B, I will then demand the provisions of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, which will deal not only with this case, but systematically with all cases of children being taken away, and that they are increasing, in the countries of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u13	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Member Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I saw that no one claimed to support Mrs Chalánková, I will do so because she spoke very well here across the political spectrum, she said: I do not want to push it, I want the result and so on. And I'm saying for myself that I want to put it to rest, because I just don't think we can just leave this case alone. There's no way we can settle for what he looks like. We're supposed to be looking for every possible means to bring the children back to the family as they belong. For me, the explanation of the Minister of Justice, who has drawn attention to a problem which I consider serious, that if someone is a citizen of the Czech Republic, if he has valid Czech citizenship, but he happens to be resident, or stays somewhere else for a longer period of time, he is not covered by the same approach as a person who has a permanent residence here, and by law we consider permanent residence to be a purely registration matter, something that is merely a record so that the public administration system knows where he lives. The permanent residence institute doesn't create anything, no right for nothing or anything. I do not understand the double approach of our legislation, I am not an expert despite it, perhaps the Minister will explain to me how double access to the citizens of the Czech Republic is possible abroad, because it can just happen and it is common for our citizens to work differently around the world, not only in the European Union or in the countries neighbouring the European Union. I think this is a mistake, which is why I am very sorry for what Mrs Chalánková is proposing here. I want to support her in their activities and express her admiration for how persistently and fiercely she is going about this problem, because it is really a scandal and I think that it is necessary for this problem to be quite serious and systemic - because Michalákův is only the peak of the iceberg, there are a number of such cases, and I think that we should be concerned about this, and I support the motion for a resolution that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u15	I thank Mr Bendl. Furthermore, with the priority right of the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. After that, Mr Šarapatka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u16	Thank you. I was asked to clarify what I said here. I will draw your attention to the text of the European Convention on the transmission of legal aid applications published under No. 110/2000 Collections of international agreements, according to which the Norwegian authorities can therefore request free legal assistance for possible negotiations in Norway. That's what I meant. As far as the request for otherwise free legal aid is concerned, according to this Convention, the mother is not normally resident in the Czech Republic, and this is, in turn, a terminus technicus, which he would like to explain in a broader context, I do not know if there is any room for this right now. So we are based on the European Convention, and if we criticize it, so be it, we can do a specialist seminar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u17	Thank you, Minister Válková. Another duly registered member is Mr Milan Šarapatka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I cannot agree with the alibis of the members of the government on this case. The report we received says that in January 2013, the court cleared the mother of these children of all charges. That is, if at this point her rights were not fulfilled, then our party should immediately go diplomatic note to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway, which would ask to meet her request. I think that our leaders must start acting as representatives of a sovereign and self-confident state and not de facto ask to meet all possibilities and so on. We must protect our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u19	I thank Mr Šarapatek. Mr Petr Bendl is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u20	I apologize to the Minister, but I still don't understand the term of the usual place of residence. Is he a citizen of the Czech Republic or isn't he? That's important to me. Everything else should perhaps be a recommendation for the Czech Republic and so on. Again, I strongly say that it is not crucial for us whether anyone lives here permanently, but the key is whether he is a citizen of the Czech Republic, and in this respect we should stick up for him. And yet, if I have time, a comment on the remedies that I have yet to capture. This is an endless legal perpetuum mobile, employing an endless number of lawyers. But, as I understand it, one of those conditions that says that when, according to Norwegian law, children get used to the place they lived in, they'll actually have Michalákův's parents, or their mother, getting harder and harder, and they'll never actually see it. These are remedies that only complicate the situation and actually distance children from the family as a whole. I want to get back to what was discussed here in one of the previous debates, and that was the possibility of using the Institute for promotion to the diplomatic corps. I know it's probably unusual for experts in international law to come at me right away and say that this is simply not done and that it's not normal to do something like this, but maybe it would be a situation that, in the extreme case, would help me move things forward, because I see nothing but endless courts, and actually children will still be separated from each other as siblings and not be part of the family. In addition, I underline one more thing that according to my information from the media, my mother wasn't convicted of anything, she was acquitted of all the charges, so I don't understand why one of those remedies is that she should apologize for something or that she would say that she had already done better and so on when she didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u21	I thank Mr Bendl. The rapporteur shall also report with priority rights. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u22	Before anyone else thinks about performing, I'm getting information here that we don't have enough options to pass on information about individual disputes. That is why it is one of the points of the resolution that I want the government to initiate such a treaty that would allow information to be passed on to individual disputes between our party and the Norwegian party. Then as far as residence is concerned. I have recited Section 56/1 of Act No. 89/2012 Coll., on Private International Law: If the competence in matters of maintenance obligations and matters of parental responsibility is not regulated by the directly applicable regulations of the European Union, in matters of nutrition, education and other matters of care for minors, including measures to protect their person and property, is given jurisdiction to the Czech courts if the minor is habitually resident in the Czech Republic or if he is a citizen of the Czech Republic, even if he is a habitual resident abroad. [[15.10 hours]] I would also like to point out that I have before me the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, where it was said that this European Court of Human Rights rejected Mrs Michaláková's complaint on the ground that she did not use all the remedies. It's not like that. The Committee's decision shall contain one-third of the reasons according to which the court has not found any sign of a breach of the rights and freedoms contained in the Convention or its protocols. That's all. The speculation of the Czech authorities did not so confirm that the court rejected the complaint for formal reasons or for the non-excessive remedies in Norway. The complaint was rejected by a committee of three judges composed of President Charlam Hajiev from Azerbaijan, Erik Mese from Norway and Dimitrij Dědov from the Russian Federation. On the edge, I would like to say that, in the last two to three years, according to all the information available, the European Court of Human Rights has not issued negative judgments against states such as Norway in these cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u23	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. With another proper application, he's ready - please, Congressman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to point out or ask the House not to view this case as a case of two children and a mother. We must realise that such cases are in the world, that there are Czech children or our citizens illegally detained, such cases are currently, have been, is and will be more and more. And at this point, we, like the House and our government, should show clearly and maybe say hard that we are able to stand up for our citizens, fight for them, and bring such cases to a successful end. To a successful end in the sense of successful for Czech citizens and not for some international law. Because they are our citizens, they are our fellow citizens, and it is our duty to take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u25	Thank you, Mr Vách. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. Mr. Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u26	I would like to ask again whether anyone in the government is able to answer it. The Human Rights Minister isn't here because we're discussing a problem that doesn't concern him. That the Minister of Agriculture isn't here, I'm used to it, he's really busy, and he's not gonna care. And the Secretary of State isn't here. The Prime Minister isn't here. Please, is anyone in the government able to answer if we can give Mother Michaláková a diplomat status? Or if we can't, then why?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u27	I thank Mr Bendl. Please, Mrs Černochová continues to report for the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u28	A fellow Member named Bendl meant the status of diplomatic protection, not the status of diplomat. I would just perhaps be in favour of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whom I spoke to on Friday and asked me to move this point to another date. Unfortunately, he's not here. He told me that all the information he had and he said should be given here by Secretary Marksová. So I'm hoping we can get an answer from her to that question. But the fact that Minister Dienstbier isn't here, I also don't think he's completely normal. Even yesterday at Interview, he said it was completely out of his jurisdiction. Well, I don't know what we have the Ministry of Human Rights and Equal Opportunities for when the Minister is unable to act in agreement with other members of the government so that this case has not taken place for the fourth year. The Czech Republic has been able to do so in the past, and it has been shown on several occasions, even from countries which I would certainly not refer to here as democratic countries, such as Cuba, to get former Members of Mr Bubeník and Mr Pilip. It also succeeded in the past, not so long ago, I suspect it was last year, if you remember the case of our citizens detained in Greek territory while photographing something that might have caused some sense of protection of the security of their country, so they were detained and, despite all possible interventions and cooperation of security forces and intelligence services, in the finals managed to get these two young men into the Czech Republic. And here is really incomprehensible for anyone who is at least a little bit interested in the case, who has read something about it, that here is the interest of the Czech Republic in the case of "only" - forgive me for the irony - just the children, so that no one cares about it. What do we want to achieve? Do we want to make sure that these children are 18 years old in a few years and that someone may prove what they have done to return to the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u29	I am sorry, Madame, I would like to make it very quiet in this House to have Members watching your speeches! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I, my fellow Members, would like to ask you very much and very much to support the motion for a resolution, which will then be read to you in a detailed debate, because I really believe that the possibility of going through diplomatic protection is here. If Secretary Marksová is right that this experiment was already here, then de facto the Czech Republic has some experience in this regard. I am not saying that we would have to call off the Norwegian Ambassador immediately, but I think at this point, it would be enough if Minister Zaorálek, or the Prime Minister, sent a diplomatic note. It is a matter that is absolutely common in democracies in civilized societies, it is one of the customs that are historically given in diplomacy, and I think that no one on the Norwegian side would be angry if the Czech Government had done so. So again, very nicely please and I appeal to you, support this proposal, because indeed our inaction, and yes, I acknowledge, it was also the inaction of the previous government, so it is likely that in a few moments the children will reach full age and we will say as much as possible and blame ourselves for not doing all that we, as legislators, could do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u31	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. Madam Secretary. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members, here it is, I have a list of basically two pages of A4 just the actions taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this case. It begins on June 2011, when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was first informed of the initiation of proceedings with the Norwegian institution of social-law protection for children seeking the removal of children on grounds of suspected sexual abuse by the father. In June 2011, it was sent immediately, i.e. in the same month, a note of the representative office in Oslo was immediately sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway requesting information on the case and explaining the circumstances in which this withdrawal took place. And as I'm saying, there's almost two A4s here, and I'm probably not gonna read this whole thing because it would take quite a while, but let's say there's a page and a half of the list of activities that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done for all the governments that have passed since then. The same list concerns our ministry, which we provided, as I said, through the Office for International Protection in Brno. So we can also make it available if you don't already have it. This means that a number of activities have been, and as I said, the Prime Minister is planning a number of other activities. We're definitely not saying that we've done everything - virtually. We've done everything we can. I'm sure for our ministry, but we will, of course, continue those activities and questions on the Norwegian side. [[15.20 hours]] As far as diplomatic protection is concerned, unfortunately, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not here today, but I would just like to say from what I have here that the Czech Republic has never used in its history the right to exercise diplomatic protection. The Norwegian Ambassador in Prague informed that in Norway it is not possible to apply the Institute of Diplomatic Protection to cases of social welfare and child protection, and again in terms of the possibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at this foreign policy level, a number of procedures other than the application of the diplomatic protection are taken into account, and these have been used. That's the list for the page and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u33	Thank you, Minister. Now with the rapporteur's priority right. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u34	I always try to react. The Minister is right that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was already informed in June 2011 about the removal of children, which took place in May 2011, but was informed by the mother, not by any authority on behalf of the Norwegian parties. So I'd like to point that out. The consul then attended individual meetings, but the mother recorded all the other meetings and all the other meetings, just in case from the second meeting with Barnevern. We have all the meetings at our disposal, including how she was threatened to take the children into adoption. This Norwegian Barneverrn worker no longer works in this service. This recording has already been published. As far as the Children's Protection Office is concerned, I also attended a seminar that showed its possibilities or rather the impossibility it has. It was said that the competence of the Office for International Children's Protection ended at the borders of this country, which, given the name of this office, was of great interest to me. If this office does not have sufficient competence, then it will probably be necessary to submit a draft law extending these competences. I am asking this office to present possible guarantees, and I think that it would be good for the Norwegian side too, and through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs it would be appropriate for the Office for International Children's Protection to provide a summary of guarantees where it can guarantee care and supervision of this family if it returns to the Czech Republic. This is what we ask of the Office for International Children's Protection. As regards the Institute of Diplomatic Protection, which was created because the mother has exhausted all the possibilities that international private law gives her, and this dispute is transferred to an interstate dispute under public international law, I will propose in my resolution a somewhat broader concept that the government should make the utmost effort to leave the possibility of negotiating from both sides, which direction and how they choose to negotiate. And we're constantly hearing so-called. Clash of jurisdiction, when we say here in the Czech Republic, our government, our ministers, that we must respect the decisions of the Norwegian courts. I don't know how. We do not even know the decision of the Norwegian courts in the Czech Republic and there is no treaty that obliges us to recognise the decision of the Norwegian courts!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u35	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Now, Mrs Černochová, after that, Mr Bendl. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u36	If what Minister Marksová said was that Norway is being pulled out of diplomatic protection, it would violate not only the Vienna Convention, but also the UN convention, so I highly doubt it. Please, please, once again and I really appeal to all of you, including those absent members of the government, let's not look for reasons why something is not going, let's find a way to make it possible! Let the Minister, Prime Minister, Minister Zaorálek sebrat himself, go to the Kingdom of Norway for three days, meet with all possible diplomats, people on his level, and find a way to make sure that not this Christmas, we may not be able to make it, but at least those next Christmas holidays, those boys celebrated with their family, and now I'm not saying if they were with their mother, with their grandfather, but with their family and their loved ones and especially together! It's been said several times that these kids are separated. He's taking away their childhood, taking away their siblings. Please try to go there and find a way to get them to the Czech Republic. Let's not lead and do not make a paper war, let's not trump who described more papers, more documents about what he did for it, but let's try to do something, something tangible, something that will lead to these kids being here next year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u37	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Mr Petr Bendl is also registered, followed by Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u38	Thank you for the floor. With all due respect, Madam Secretary, when you say you have a four-page activity list, and you said what we've done, I'll turn it around. Not even four pages of the list of what the Czech state has already done has led to Michalákův's children being at home or in the family. Not even four pages! And maybe it won't be five pages, maybe it won't be ten pages in the future! We're just gonna have fun here all the time what we've done, but unfortunately, the result will still be the same: the kids will be where they are, and they won't be at their mother's. Therefore, please, for the record, I would like to propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to use the diplomatic protection institute for the mother of Michalákův's children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u39	I thank Mr Bendl. With another proper application, Mr Laudát is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The previous, previous and current government may be taking formal steps, but it is evident that this is not enough. I would expect Prime Minister Sobotka to come out here and say whether there are any possibilities of pressure that would be no longer standard, but which the Kingdom of Norway would start to hurt. And that is probably not something anyone has considered, including expecting much more activity within the institutions of the European Union, because, of course, the European Union has much more weight and strength than we have on our own, so I would also expect much more forceful action there. And unfortunately, it's such a strange tradition of this country - a little self-confidence, we're playing on the local turf. And I think we should show that what's most valuable to us is our people, and those kids are ours, they're Čech, not Nor! It doesn't surprise me that Dienstbier isn't here, because he's pushing the exact policy that leads to these perversions that someone, some strange institution somewhere, is going to become entitled to pick up someone's children and stuff. So it starts with some equal opportunities, it's just going to be a little bit, isn't it? It's about three four companies, don't worry - they'll start pushing it everywhere in no time. The various institutions involved break privacy. After all, we have a secretary here who was famous for that statement about children and the state on the Social Committee, so just another thing. And perhaps even in a broader context, we should see this much more strongly in the light of this unfortunate experience with Norway. We were there once with the Equal Opportunities Commission, and we actually came back, or at least I was shaken by what kind of social engineering that goes far beyond the edge of personal rights, beyond the edge of the family, so it was already there to read what laws they have and so on. So I'd like the government to really start considering and let them figure out how to get these kids home. I am not calling for some intelligence to kidnap them, but economic pressures, the use of the institutions of the European Union and others and others. What you're doing is little, it's weak, it lacks confidence, nice ministers and Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u41	I thank Mr Laudát. I am currently not seeing anyone enrolled in the general debate. I ask about any final words in the general debate. If there is no interest, I am ending the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. The rapporteur will certainly sign up for her motion for a resolution. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of Human Rights Day, I would like to ask you, together, to consider what fundamental human rights are, to realise that after the legal battle between the individual judicates, whether there is still a fundamental human right, and that is the mother's right to her children. So let me make a motion for a resolution. I've got it quite wider, as I've already announced, I'll read it all. The Chamber of Deputies. Parliament of the Czech Republic, Chamber of Deputies, seventh term. At the point of the Denis and David Michalákův case in Norway. Chamber of Deputies I. notes that it belongs to the fundamental principles of Czech and international family law derived from traditional principles of human justice and morality, that 1. the removal of a child from the family and his placement into the care of the child may only be an entirely extreme means of protecting the child and his interests and, as such, may be brought to him exclusively in situations where no other solution is possible which would allow the children to be left in his family, only for the necessary period of time, and should always be carried out in such a way as not to prevent the future possible return of the child to his family. 2. If the removal of a child from the family is proven necessary and the child cannot be with either parent, it should preferably be placed in the care of the child of relatives or otherwise known persons. 3. Foster care should not be viewed as a long-term placement of children to strangers who would replace adoption, and parents should be entitled to the widest possible contact with children and to consultations with foster parents. Foster care represents the family, but must not replace it. 4. Siblings may be separated only in extreme cases and solely for reasons of the relationship between such siblings if they are removed. 5. The child taken has the right to continue to be raised in a manner consistent with his nationality and culture of his country of origin and has the right to be taught his native language so that he can return to that country in the future. 6. The reasons for the removal of the child from the family, the reasons for the division of siblings and the reasons for the location of the children taken to persons other than relatives must always be detailed, namely and verifiable. Point II. The Chamber of Deputies notes that no decision can be taken contrary to the principles set out in point I. Paragraph III. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to ask the Government of the Kingdom of Norway for an explanation 1. why Czech citizens Denis a David Michalákův remain in the foster care of foreign people, Norwegian nationals, even though the original reason for placing children in foster care has passed away, 2. whether the Norwegian authorities were concerned or concerned with the possibility of asking for cooperation from the authorities of the Czech Republic and in cooperation with them entrusting Denis and David to the care of their Czech relatives or to the care of other Czech foster parents, 3. why both siblings were and still remain separated and placed in different foster families. Point IV. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to make every effort to get Denis a David Michalákův's return to the Czech Republic if the Government of the Kingdom of Norway does not provide an acceptable and credible answer to the questions referred to in point III. Point V. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to consider the possibility of lodging an interstate complaint against Norway within the meaning of Article 33 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, including, where appropriate, with other interested countries. Point VI. The Chamber of Deputies recommends the President of the Republic and the Government to initiate an international treaty with Norway, which would provide for the mutual obligation of both parties to inform themselves of all administrative and judicial proceedings concerning minors of the other Contracting Party and the possibility of entering into such proceedings. Point VII. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to inform the Chamber of Deputies by 15 February 2015 at the latest of the measures taken by the Government or intends to take pursuant to point III. to VI. Next, we have part B, which I would like to vote on separately. The Chamber of Deputies I sets up a permanent commission for helping underage Czech citizens abroad. This permanent commission will have nine members and its members will be elected from among Members according to the principle of proportional representation. II. The Chamber of Deputies asks the President of the Chamber of Deputies to place an item at the January meeting of the Chamber of Deputies entitled the election of members of the Permanent Commission for Assistance to Minor Czech Citizens abroad. Thank you for your attention. All of you have the reference report for this resolution submitted on your desks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u43	I thank Mrs Chalánková for her motion for a resolution. Mr Bendl, Mrs Maxová, is also in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. But before that happens, please, different groups to disperse and stop talking out loud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u44	Thank you for the floor. My motion for a resolution has already been announced in the general debate, it is simple: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to use the Institute of Diplomatic Protection for the Mother of Children of Michálkův.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u45	I thank Mr Bendl and his motion for a resolution. Another duly signed up is Mrs Radka Maxová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to propose that we vote separately on resolution A after individual Roman figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u47	Thank you. This is a proposal which, in the event of a procedure, will certainly be taken into account. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask about the final words of the Minister or, if necessary, the rapporteur. There's no interest in final words. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I will ask the rapporteur to submit a motion for a resolution to me because it is somewhat complicated. Madam rapporteur, please. [[The rapporteur isn't responding.]] I ask the rapporteur to submit a motion for a resolution to me because it is somewhat complicated. [[The rapporteur shall submit a written version of the motion for a resolution to the President.]] Thank you. We have two motions for resolutions here. First of all, the motion for a resolution by Mrs Chalánková, Part A and Part B. Part A has I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII. Part B has Parts I and II. Then we have Mr Bendl's proposal. There is a request from Mrs Maxová to vote on the individual proposals following the Roman figures. Does anyone object to this motion? If it does not, I will not put it to a vote and we will vote as Mrs Maxová suggested. First of all, we're going to vote in part. And Mrs Chalánková's proposal, point I, with the fact that when I briefly present this - it is not necessary to repeat it, I think, again - the Chamber of Deputies notes that it is one of the fundamental principles of Czech and international family law deriving from the traditional principles of human justice and morality, that - and then those principles are listed there. Can we please vote? Does every Member know what they're voting on? There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[15.40 hours]] We will vote on Part I. First of all, I ask for the rapporteur's and the Minister's views. [[The rapporteur recommends that the Minister has a negative opinion.]] Initiating voting on part And Mrs Chalánková's proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 62. 161 Members and Members are enrolled, for 88. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it.]] Next, we will vote on point II. The Chamber of Deputies notes that no decision can be taken contrary to the principles set out in point I. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. [[The rapporteur recommends that the Minister has a neutral position.]] Who's against it? Thank you. It is vote number 63; 161 Members and Members are registered, for 82, against 26. This proposal has also been adopted. [[Let's hear it.]] Furthermore, in point III of the honourable Member, the resolution proposes that the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to ask the Government of the Kingdom of Norway to explain why Czech citizens Denis a David Michalákův remain in foster care, whether the Norwegian authorities were concerned or concerned with the possibility of asking for cooperation from the authorities of the Czech Republic, and why both siblings were and still remain separate. You've got it in front of you. Yes, thank you. I had no idea. I am opening the vote on this resolution under point III of the proposal. Opinion? [[The rapporteur recommends that the Minister has a positive opinion.]] I'm sorry. I declare this vote confusing. We're gonna vote again, so I'm gonna ask for my opinion one more time. Madam Secretary? [[The rapporteur recommends. The Minister has a positive opinion.]] Madam Secretary also recommends. Initiating vote on point III. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 65; 162 Members and Members are registered, for 156, against none. This proposal was adopted. We will also vote on point IV, in which Mrs Chalánková asks the Government to make every effort to bring children back if the Government of the Kingdom of Norway does not provide acceptable and credible answers. [[The rapporteur recommends:]] The rapporteur recommends, Madam Secretary? [[The Minister has a neutral position.]] He has a neutral position. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 66, 163 Members are registered, for 88, against 18. This proposal has also been adopted. [[Let's hear it.]] We will also vote on point V, where the Member or the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to consider the possibility of lodging an interstate complaint against Norway within the meaning of Article 33 of the European Treaty on Human Rights. Opinions, please? Madam? [[The rapporteur recommends.]] Madam Secretary? [[The Minister has a neutral position.]] I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 67, 163 Members and Members are registered, for 80, against 33. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, according to point VI, in which the recommendation of the President of the Republic and the Government is requested to initiate an international agreement with Norway, which would provide for a reciprocal obligation to inform each other of all administrative and judicial proceedings, etc. Opinions, please? [[The rapporteur recommends.]] Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u48	Positive, but I'm looking at the Minister of Justice, because that's really not my area of expertise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u49	The Minister of Justice also nods in agreement. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 68; 164 Members and Members are registered, for 160, against none. This proposal has also been adopted. Finally, paragraph VII in Part A, in which the Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to inform the Chamber of Deputies by 15 February at the latest of the measures taken by the Government. Opinions, please? [[The rapporteur recommends.]] Madam Secretary? [[The Minister has a positive opinion.]] Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 69, 164 Members and Members registered, for 159, against none. This proposal has also been adopted. Furthermore, we will vote on the proposals under the heading. B. Mrs Černochová has a point of fact? Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u50	I'm sorry, Mr Vice-President, only now I've noticed that there's three to six in that Roman seven, and since the five didn't pass, it has to be renumbered. Just so we can technically record on the screen recording that it's going to be renumbering to five, not to six, so there's no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-003-132.u51	I take that as an objection, Madame. It is a legislative technical comment by the Member, which I will put to the vote if you agree and have no objection. I am opening the vote on Mrs Černochová's legislative technical reminder. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 70, 165 Members and Members are registered, for 160, against none. Thank you for adopting this legislative technical comment. We will vote on the proposals under the letter. B, once again on the proposal of Mrs Maxová following the Roman numerals I and II. BI point first. The Chamber of Deputies - there is a proposal together. The honourable Member also agrees. So both points under the letter. B, if no one has any objection, we will vote together. Initiating vote... Excuse me, I've got my opinions. I find this vote confusing. [[The rapporteur recommends.]] The honourable Member recommends. Madam Secretary? [[The Minister has a neutral position.]] Neutral. There's going to be a mistrial vote. I am opening the vote on Mrs Chalánková's proposal under the heading. B. Anyone in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 72, 165 Members and Members registered, for 48, against 56. The motion was not accepted. The last proposal we have to deal with is Mr Bendl's proposal, which says - please paraphrase, I do not have the motion for a resolution in writing: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to provide diplomatic protection for the mother of children. The MP nods. The rapporteur's position? [[The rapporteur agrees.]] Madam Secretary? [[The Minister has a negative opinion.]] Negative. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 73; 164 Members and Members are registered, for 46, against 49. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that we have approved the resolution under letter AI to VII except one point. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister for her cooperation and conclude on this point. [[15.50 hours]] The next item is the item number
