ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-009-152.u1	152. Proposal for appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Technology Agency of the Czech Republic /2/ I ask the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to take the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-009-152.u2	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, there will also be a public election here, but it will be a bit of an atypical vote, which is why I need a little more time to explain it to you. Recap first. On the basis of a call from the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, two proposals from legal entities dealing with research and development were received. The Committee referred these two proposals to the Election Commission on 4 September and asked the Organisational Committee to include a point in this meeting. [[12.50 hours]] Professor Ing was designed. Jiřina Jílková, CSc, was designed by the Faculty of Social Economics in Ústí nad Labem, and by Professor . Jana Stávková, CSc, designed by Mendel University in Brno. The Election Commission has forwarded both proposals to all the MPs. Then she discussed them at her 14th meeting on 10 September. It is resolution 73, which has not yet been distributed, which is why I will read it to you quickly. It reads as follows: "The Election Commission instructs its President to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that - first of all - the Commission received the following proposals through the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports from legal persons involved in research and development: Professor Jiřina Jílková and Professor Jana Stávková. Second: The special law does not provide for a choice. The Election Commission therefore proposes a public choice by means of a voting device. Third: The new members shall start their four-year term of office on the day of their election." And now the explanation. This procedure is atypical because it is not a classic choice, because the Chamber of Deputies votes on the candidates proposed and on the basis of the results of the vote and after adoption, the President of the Chamber of Deputies will send a letter of appointment. So the President of the House will appoint these two members on the basis of our vote. That is why we will vote publicly, virtually. The electoral committee proposes a public vote, especially after every single name. If the two candidates proposed for two seats receive an absolute number of votes, then the President of the Chamber of Deputies will be appointed by letter of appointment. I hope that this is explained clearly, there should not be any issue there after the election commission has been discussed. I ask now that the President open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-24-ps2013-017-06-009-152.u3	Yes, Prime Minister. I'm opening the debate. I don't have a written application for it. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I see no one, I end the debate and we will therefore vote because there has not been a proposal for a secret choice, publicly after individual names. We will now vote on the appointment of profesor Ing in voting order number 187, which I have begun. Jiřina Jílková, CSc, to the Monitoring Board of the Technology Agency. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 187. From the present 164 to 105, against no one. The motion was accepted. In voting order number 188, which I have begun, I ask who is in favour of the appointment of profesor Ing Jana Stávková, CSc, to the Monitoring Board of the Technology Agency. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 188. From the present 164 for 109, against no one. I prof. . Jana Stávková was elected to the Monitoring Council of the Technological Agency and the President of the Chamber of Deputies can appoint her. Thank you, and I'm done with item 152. Initiating item number
