ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-006-047.u1	47. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratify the amendment of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court on Crime of Aggression adopted on 11 June 2010 at the Rome Statute Review Conference in Kampala /German Press 160/ - First Reading I ask that the opening words be given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-006-047.u2	Thank you. So once again, the subject that is actually close to what we were talking about at the previous point. Once again, this is an international criminal tribunal and it is again a regulation of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. The essence of this proposal, which you should be dealing with, is the definition of a crime of aggression. Because the crime of aggression, of course, is a crime that has already been named and mentioned in those arrangements in the past. In 2010 at the Kampala diplomatic conference, the definition of crime of aggression was adopted just as the most serious and dangerous form of illegal use of force that can happen in international relations. [[18.40 hours]] The prohibition of aggression is actually already in the second paragraph of Article 4 of the UN Charter. And here, however, what took quite a long time was precisely defining aggression. And that is actually what you should consider now in the committees. Thirteen states have already joined or already voted this definition here and here this amendment, so also the Czech Republic, because we are the one who is part of it, we have signed the Rome Statute, so we are a participant in this agreement and the establishment of this International Criminal Court, and we should now also comment on this amendment - the definition of crime of aggression. I say 13 countries have already signed up, others are discussing it, the Czech Republic should do so too. For example, what had to be done here in this definition had to be defined that, of course, no one could be persecuted or prosecuted for the crime of aggression. If an ordinary soldier does it or something, it can hardly be an aggressor. In that definition, it must be a significant figure, a high political, military figure. In the definition it is defined that it must be an offensive act that it must be the use of the armed force, that is, there is simply a definition of what fills the crime of aggression between states. And, of course, this court, I'm just saying, to remind you, it is only possible to apply to those states that will become part of this agreement, that is, it is not possible to send to this court someone who is not a party to the Rome Agreement. I think those states are, I think, 120 today. Some of them, of course, are not among them. But I say the Czech Republic is part of an agreement to establish an International Criminal Court, and we should now deal with the issue of definition of crime of aggression. And again, as before, I am asking you to look at this definition in committees and eventually join that definition. That is actually all we should do in this first act. At this first reading, we should only agree to consider this in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-006-047.u3	Thank you, Minister, and before we proceed in the negotiations, I will read two apologies, Mr Jiří Zlatuška, who apologizes for today's meeting at 19:00, and for reasons of work from 19:00, Minister Helena Válková apologizes for today's meeting. We will now again vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for first reading, when, instead of Mr Milan Šarapatka, Mrs Fischerová is proposed. I am opening the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for first reading and I am asking who is in favour of the proposed Mrs Jana Fischerová. Initiating vote. Who's in? Against? I conclude the vote that this is the 76-order vote to which 146 Members are entered, for 127, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Jana Fischerová, to take the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-006-047.u4	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on the Minister's words and say that I, too, recommend that we refer this House press 160 to second reading and, like the Organizing Committee, order the Foreign Committee to discuss it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-06-ps2013-008-03-006-047.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open this general debate, which I do not have an application for, therefore I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a committee's order for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? It's not like that. We will now proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I conclude the vote, it is the 77-order vote, in which 146 Members, with 127 in favour, are signed against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I shall conclude the discussion of this point and proceed to the discussion of the next item, which shall:
