ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-008-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 146/2002 Coll., on the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended /German Press 86/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-008-010.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No. 146/2002 Coll., on State Agricultural and Food Inspection and amending certain related laws, as amended. The bill is presented as the initiative material of the Minister for Agriculture. The original bill, House press 977, as well as the previous material I mentioned, was not discussed by the Chamber of Deputies because of its dissolution last year. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to respond to experience with the application of Act No. 146/2002 Sb. and some problems in the food market. The proposed changes are intended to increase the efficiency of the performance of consumer control and protection by introducing new types of measures, e.g. the introduction of a new form of measures in the form of measures of a general nature, which should in particular give rise to the possibility of a rapid response to cases requiring immediate action. At the same time, changes are made in connection with the adoption of the new Act No. 225/2012 Coll., on control, which took effect on 1 January 2014. In particular, the proposed proposal contains a new effective system of measures imposed by state agricultural and food inspections in the event of deficiencies. These are the following measures: classical measures notified in control and effective in relation to a controlled person within the territorial scope of the inspectorate, the inspector of which has issued the measure. Measures with effects beyond the territorial scope of the inspectorate in question where there is a reasonable suspicion that a breach of the legislation by a controlled person has occurred outside the territorial scope of the controlling inspectorate, such as: in the case of dangerous foodstuffs placed on the market within a single chain of trade. Furthermore, a measure of a general nature under the Administrative Code with effects exceeding the territorial scope of the inspectorate, which obliges not only a controlled person but also an unspecified group of other persons, for example, in the case of dangerous foodstuffs marketed by a larger number of entities, as well as an increase in the effectiveness of the exercise of control and adaptation to the new rules of control. This is where the inspectors are authorized to arrange access to the controlled premises. A new measure is hereby introduced in order to prohibit the use of premises unless a controlled person allows an inspector to enter land, buildings or other premises, or provides for the authorisation of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority to obtain, to the extent necessary, data from the basic registers. Thank you for your attention, so much in brief to the material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-008-010.u3	I thank the Minister for presenting this law. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, which was set by Mr Petr Bendl. Ambassador, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-008-010.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have relatively simple legislation ahead of us, which basically, simply states, strengthens the powers of inspectors during checks. In general, I am in favour of inspectors having greater powers to intervene quickly, but I would not want us to get back into a situation where such competences, for example, are possible. abuse. We open the possibility of entering buildings, buildings, land, etc. Perhaps we are interfering with the Police of the Czech Republic. We should really check, I'll say, even the site of the possibility of abuse in case it's not justified. Otherwise, in general, I am in favour of strengthening the competence of our inspectors. I support the legal amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-008-010.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have one registered so far. Mr. Josef Šenfeld, please. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-008-010.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues. My colleagues spoke at a point just before the lunch break about the importance of the Food Act, and I say that consistent and effective control on the food market is also important. I understand that the basis of the existing law is from the time before the Czech Republic joined the EU and that it was not significantly modified. EU legislation, including the principle of mutual recognition of products not harmonised by EU food law, produced according to standards of other Member States and often significantly different from domestic ones, had to be applied by joining the EU in the area of food law. [[15.00 hours]] This affected the situation on the food market, where consumers are increasingly meeting food, which is safe except for exceptions, but from the point of view of quality and labelling of food, the food market is often unclear for ordinary consumers. As with other amendments, the amendment responds to application experience and the current situation on the food market, which points to the need for certain legislative changes of a technical nature. Further adaptation to the legislation of European food law and, where appropriate, the elimination of duplication is necessary. The efficiency of control performance needs to be increased. As necessary, I see the introduction of a new authorisation of inspectors to ensure entry into controlled premises, new types of measures, the adjustment of certain procedural issues of notification of measures, changes in decision-making on objections to measures, the introduction of a new form of measures at a time of general nature and, in some cases, the addition of administrative offences proceedings to measures. The amendment also addresses the necessary changes concerning terminology prepared also in the draft law amending the food law, Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products. From my point of view and from the public's point of view, measures are important for the possibility of faster and more effective intervention in the event of a threat to the consumer's interest in the production or marketing of agricultural products, foodstuffs or tobacco products, as well as in more effective information on controlled persons. In particular, a new form of action should give rise to the possibility of a rapid response to cases requiring immediate intervention, such as cases of major food crises, such as the methanol affair. The KSČM MP club supports the present proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-008-010.u7	I thank the honourable Member for his contribution. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If not, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant, the Minister or the rapporteur if he wishes the final word. It's not like that. Now, then, we will consider the motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Please, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-008-010.u8	I would also recommend that it be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-05-ps2013-006-02-008-010.u9	Thank you. If no one else has a proposal, then we will proceed to the vote. First, we will vote on the commandment to discuss the agricultural committee. I am opening the vote (number 33) on the commandment of the motion for discussion to the agricultural committee. Who's in? Who's against it? Of the 169 Members present for 142, against none. The proposal was directed to the agricultural committee. Furthermore, we will deal with the commandments of the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am opening the vote (number 34) on the commandment of this proposal to the constitutionally-legal committee. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Of the 169 Members present for 16, versus 106. The proposal was not directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee for discussion. That concludes the first reading of this law. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Let's move on to point number
