ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-003-128.u1	128. Report on the use of the Ombudsman's recommendations on amendments to the legislation set out in the Ombudsman's 2013 Summary Activity Report /Print of the House 328/
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-003-128.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will leave out the general introduction because it would be the same as the previous report, and I will go specifically to the individual recommendations in the report for 2013. The Government agrees with the initiative of the protector, who proposes the introduction of a special fact of an offence and an administrative offence consisting of unauthorised intervention by the employer in the privacy of the employee. The current draft proposal for the 2015 legislative work plan of the Government contains a task for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to submit to the Government in April 2015 a draft amendment to the Labour Inspection Act, which will be fulfilled by the Ombudsman's request. The Ombudsman's initiative to amend the laws so that small electricity producers could become job seekers, qualify for unemployment benefits and only their actual income from the operation of the plant was assessed for the purpose of entitlement to benefits, he is addressing the proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act submitted by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies in October of this year. The adjustment concerns the simplification of electricity production for small sources for the customer's own consumption. It is therefore not an electricity-produced business. [[11.20 hours]] It is added that a licence under the Energy Act is not required for cases where it is the production of electricity for the customer's own use. If those persons are not considered self-employed for the purposes of pension insurance, they may become job applicants with all the related rights. For this reason, the government is not considering amending the Employment Act. At the same time, the government states that dividing entrepreneurs into groups by type of business would mean inequality in entrepreneurship and energy entrepreneurs reaching low incomes would be favoured by entrepreneurs in other areas with equally low incomes, which could no longer become job seekers. The Government finds the solution to the Ombudsman's initiative concerning the Geological Work Act and, where appropriate, its implementing decrees in the amendment of implementing legislation to the Geological Work Act. The subject matter of the amendment should be to extend the content of the register of geological works and to introduce a new requirement for connection and to take account of the comments made by the competent water authority pursuant to Section 18 of the Water Act, in which all authorised groundwater collections on neighbouring land would be included. The amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need would be followed by the recommendation of the protector to amend the provisions of Section 75 letter. (a) a law on assistance in material distress so that the words "to the extent required" are inserted after the words "dose." The Government does not agree with the proposed amendment to the Law on the Social Protection of Children, which would be allowed to view the conflicting guardian in the administrative file. In order to recommend that the Government submit a proposal for an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure and in its framework address certain aspects of the enforcement legislation, it can currently only be stated that the bill in question is in the stage of preparation, with its substantive content still being the subject of negotiations. The Government considers that it is impossible to comply with the Ombudsman's recommendation on supplementing disability as a discriminatory reason in the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members and in the Occupational Soldiers Act. The issue of the Ombudsman's recommendation on the transfer of the burden of proof in disputes about discrimination is currently discussed in connection with the preparation of the draft legislative plan of the Government for 2015. The draft amendment to the Anti-discrimination Act, which should be submitted to the Government in August 2015, will include the introduction of a public action on discrimination for the protector. The Ombudsman's recommendation that, in the event of a government proposal for an amendment to the Penal Code and the Act on the Enforcement of Penalty, a procedural procedure should also be provided for the inclusion and transfer of sentenced persons by the Czech Republic within the prison type, the Government notes that this bill is not included in the draft legislative work plan of the Government for 2015 because it is still at the stage of expert discussions and the issue of decision on the internal inclusion of sentenced persons and the related issue of appeals has not yet been resolved. Finally, I would recommend that we take note of this material again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-003-128.u3	Thank you to Minister Jiří Dienstbier. We have heard the news report.
