ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u1	42. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 206/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek. I ask the Minister to take the floor. The rest of you, please keep your voice down while we discuss the teachers. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce to you the proposal of Amendment 563 on teaching staff. This proposal solves a problem that is already old, because more than ten years in this law is a condition that anyone who teaches in Czech schools must have a higher education in the appropriate direction. Since this bill is to enter into force, or its article, 1. 1. 2015, so we made an inquiry into how many teachers this involves. The first thing that surprised me was that the Ministry never did such an investigation in the past. And the second surprise was that it concerns 17,000 teachers. Since in some schools there is more than 60 per cent unqualified, we even have several schools in the Czech Republic where there is even 100 per cent unqualified, so we started to take seriously into account the problem. Because, in this state, if we did nothing at all, this law came into force, so I dare say that a small part of primary schools and secondary schools would be in trouble, that they could basically not carry out teaching. That's why we come up with an alternative. Before I introduce you to the alternative, I'll tell you how it went down. We had a meeting with representatives of the school unions, and we also had a meeting with representatives of teachers, teaching faculties, and there were just a compromise of these few exceptions. But at the same time, we agreed with the faculty representatives that they would make special appointments so that each teacher could enroll in education, either until the completion of university education or the course that replaced his qualification. Now let's go to the exceptions. It's about four areas. First, we propose that teachers who are over 55 years of age and who have 20 years of practice may be able to perform direct teaching activities without professional qualifications. This is because, firstly, the practice is also very important, and on the other hand, if they got into college, they would be more or less finishing up just before they retire, and that seems inefficient to us. The second concerns native speakers - teaching a foreign language. This is because, of course, there were a number of comments about those native speakers who are qualified from abroad, but are not recognised in the Czech Republic. With this exception, we meet requests from pedagogical terrain. Another exception, which also arose from the discussion with professional schools and experts on the subject, concerns the possibility of employing practitioners who do not teach full-time. They teach part-time in vocational schools, make financial directors for example, teach financial literacy and teach there for two hours. It would probably be stupid to ask them to complete their pedagogical education when they are experts on the issue. And this would be very helpful to vocational schools. It also concerns performers, artists, coaches in these subjects, or training. Let me give you a specific example. You have a graduate at the Conservatory, playing in the Czech Philharmonic. This qualification is enough for a primary art school, but paradoxically it is not enough for a musical education at a primary school where he teaches two hours. So this is how we approach this group, so that these people can continue teaching in schools. The fourth option for schools mainly concerns the area where there is a truly enormous shortage of qualified educators. You even have a division by region in your report, so each of you Members will surely find your country and you will see that some of the regions are in a really, really, really difficult way. There are several reasons. For example, I will mention the Karlovy Vary Region. One of the reasons was the wrong offer for this area - distant, a person with a family going to work, so he was unable to commute to complement this qualification. That's where we took the step that teaching faculties are opening their branches directly in these regions, so this argument will no longer be here. At the same time, I give teaching faculties CZK 20 million from the state budget, from the Ministry of Education's budget, to increase the number of students. Yet we are unable to find qualified educators in some localities. That is why there is that point four, and that is the possibility to employ schools and educational establishments to the necessary extent for the necessary period of a teaching worker without professional qualifications, but he must count on the fact that if he does not complete the qualification, when someone qualified comes into that position, he will, of course, replace him. By the way, this fourth point can also be applied in other situations, for example when a teacher has a long-term history of jaundice or some long-term illness. At that point, you just can't get a qualified educator, you have the opportunity to use this fourth point. Let's see what's going on. I think it'll be good to discuss some of these things on the school committee. The proposal, as I said at the beginning of my short speech, is a compromise solution which has also been agreed by both the education unions and the teaching faculties, and are prepared to implement this bill from 1. 1. 2015, without disrupting teaching in Czech schools. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, Mr President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u3	Thank you, Minister Chládek. I would like to answer his question that the discussion will certainly be fruitful. And now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová - teacher Vlasta Bohdalová - to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u4	Good afternoon. Mr President, thank you very much for addressing me by addressing me, which I have been proud of for 35 years. Dear colleagues, the Minister of Education has mentioned here an amendment to the law concerning the education of teaching staff. In my intelligence report, I could only discuss in detail all the reasons set out here by the Minister. But I would like to turn your attention here - especially for those who are meeting for the first time - into history. The requirement to supplement education has been in the law for ten years. For ten years, not only did teachers have it, but the Ministry, the Faculty of Education, had to prepare programmes for which teachers would enter and be able to complete their qualifications. For example, I see the problem here that part of the teachers actually started six semesters at the faculty or other colleges with a pedagogical focus and completed their education. Someone, as they say, had it expelled. [[14.40 hours]] But we're standing really, as described in the material, in a key situation where we have people before a pension who lack qualifications. Socially speaking, it would be very bad if they had to leave school. Nota bene, if we think about it that way, they got that qualification in a certain way. There are also other points of teachers - native speakers, teachers who are part-time, teachers - graduates of the conservatory. I would like us to be able to read the law in the second reading when this law goes into second reading, and I suppose it will pass, to deal in detail with such things, because there is always a devil hidden in detail as what we consider to be an executive artist, an executive athlete. Is that the part-time qualification? I think these are the things that might be specific. At the end of my intelligence report, let me say one thing. During the last parliamentary term, in the Education Committee and the Sub-Committee on Regional Education, we have actually published an amendment to the Law on Educational Workers, where we have relieved that we have agreed with the Ministry of Education that it will draw up a decree to make it quite clear to the teaching faculties what it wants from those as unqualified teachers. I'm talking about, like, when someone graduated second grade teaching and then taught third grade school, that is, high school, he's also considered unqualified. On top of that, there were no conditions other than to continue studying the teaching faculty for three years. But take it when I take the expertise, let's say, in high school, when someone graduated from Czech - history and better started teaching in elementary school, it is considered unqualified to go back to study, and not just methodology and didactics. What's different about the teacher? It's different at every level of access to the pupil. And I just want to conclude here: Although this law was adopted with these resolutions, the previous Ministry of Education has forgiven and we are putting out the flood today, not with a bucket, but with a thimble. So I would like, ladies and gentlemen, if we could move this bill forward to second reading, discuss it in detail in committees and subcommittees and deal with it so that we can create a standard that we will not have to change and which sets clear rules. Because for ten years, there's a rule that we run from exception to exception. And I say that every exception is the way to hell. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Bohdalová, Vlasta. And before I open the general debate, Mr Josef Šenfeld asks for an apology from not attending today's meeting from 14.30 to 17.00, and today, Mr Jiří Pospíšil apologizes for the entire work trip. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Anna Putnová was the first to sign up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u6	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister introduced us to the situation and to the draft amendment of the law on pedagogical workers and at the same time outlined the situation in regional education. To be honest, it's a situation he has to deal with, and no one is jealous of it at this point. I would like to welcome the fact that the Minister of Education has taken some fundamental steps to remedy the current situation, respectively. to create conditions so that the situation is not so painful for teachers who do not have adequate education. [[It's busy in the hall.]] A small recap may be important for you who do not move in education. In 2004, a law was adopted defining compulsory pedagogical training for teachers with the effect that it will apply from 1. 1. 2005. It was assumed that teachers who were not qualified would be able to complete it. Since this has proved unrealistic, it has been decided and adopted by law that it extends the time during which teachers can complete this qualification. It first extended by five years and another five years in 2009. So we reached the number of ten years during which teachers had the opportunity to complete their pedagogical qualifications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u7	Madam, I am very sorry, but I dare ask the honourable House to calm down. So far, I'm using a gentle pedagogical device, and that's the deal. In case that doesn't happen, I'll move on to sharper pedagogical means. Thank you. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u8	It's a disturbing subject. I quite understand, Mr President. So we're going back to our school system. Again, in ten years there have been better or worse conditions for completing the qualifications of teachers. In 2014, we are once again in a situation that was already dealt with by the House in 2009, and this is an insufficient qualification for some pedagogical workers. The Minister has already mentioned how a large number of teaching staff are affected by this law. He said it was 17 grand. I will add that according to the investigation of the Ministry of Education, more than 6,000 teachers have already entered the educational process. And the road, and it's extremely important, is still open. Teachers have the opportunity to start their studies this academic year and thus fulfil the condition laid down by law, and thus open the way for them to meet the conditions required by the law. The reason report does not talk about how many teachers have already fulfilled their duties in this way. We say at work: some teachers have completed their homework. I am fully aware that whatever decision we make, it will be a decision that will frustrate part of the teachers, because those who actually prepared honestly because they believed and assumed that the law would apply, complementing their education, often traveled through half the Republic in their spare time, invested time, money to fill the letter of the law. I would like to appreciate, above all, those who have done so responsibly, the directors who have made sure that their teachers' choir has full qualifications. It is also worth appreciating the teaching faculties, which did really in a short time at the instigation of the Minister of Education, a huge piece of work and opened up programs to offer students-teaching to supplement education. If we are to take education and education seriously, we must take steps that will support the seriousness of education and education. If the law applies to all, it should also apply to teachers. What else do we want to talk about in the future if teachers question that formalized education makes sense at all? I have to say, it's just a very small part of teachers who act like that. [[14.50 hours]] A large proportion of them have accepted the conditions and are busy preparing for the conditions laid down by law. I can't imagine we'd be so sorry if they were doctors or lawyers. I would like to reiterate that the system is still open to them, and if they start studying this year, they will fulfil the conditions of the law and will be considered risky, those who qualify. In the past, we've come across the fact that teachers' prestige is falling. We want to support her, we want to strengthen her, both by material appreciation and by society giving them the weight they deserve. If schools and teachers are serious about themselves, they should accept that they respect the law. I would therefore like to make a motion to reject this amendment at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u9	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. I'm registering her motion to dismiss this press. With another proper application... So, first, before we get another proper application, when Mrs Marta Semelová is registered, I have two factual points, already three, before I have finished. Mr Adolf Beznoska, Mr Adolf Beznoska, came forward first with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u10	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, my colleague Mrs Putnová has spoken to me from the soul to a certain extent. As a former director, I was once the director of a large high school and a higher vocational school, so I know what we're talking about, and I'm also concerned about the qualifications and fate of our education. 145,000 cantors in this republic, a little over 11,000 of which doesn't meet the qualification requirements, converted into full-time jobs it's something more than 8,300 full-time jobs. Since the whole process, when it was announced that it was necessary to complete a proper education in order for our schools to be fully qualified, started in 2004. After ten years, we're still in the same situation. And I deeply appreciated the Minister's words and the kind of force with which he joined the Ministry of Education with the fact that he was going to deal with the situation. Unfortunately, if you project a bunch of groups where there was an exception, I could accept it, and that's my point, I could accept coaches when they teach special gymnastics, I could accept a teacher at a folk art school who plays a great violin, but unfortunately there is a group number four protection. This also applies to those where a school cannot employ an unqualified cantor, if necessary, for the necessary time. In other words, we tell directors again who don't push their cantors, just do whatever you want, and then you say, I don't have another cantor here, I have to do it this way. Unlike my colleague Mrs Putnová, however much I agree with her, I would soften that slightly, and I would like to put forward a proposal at second reading to eliminate at least a group of four of this regulation from this law. This will be for the benefit of our education, and we really must do this someday. [[Time warning]] Excuse me, Mr President, I hope I will not have to copy the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u11	No, you won't have to copy the House's Rules of Procedure, you're almost done in time. Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Petr Kořenek is prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u12	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to question the words of my previous speakers, yet I would take the liberty of making a few comments for the sake of completeness. It is also necessary to see if there has been enough supply of universities to study teachers over the past nine years, in those fields that are needed. I will not discuss individual options and offers and the possibility of higher education. At the same time, I would like to point out that I also personally do not take the view that people with secondary education should be taught. However, it is important to note that the absence of a teacher, and once again we are at the university's offer, means a high cost of substitute, and here I would like to point out that there has been a significant reduction in funds in this area right-wing governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u13	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. With another point of fact, Mr Novotný is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have worked in secondary education for 30 years, for more than 20 years either as a deputy director or as a director of a large high school, technical, and I very much agree that teachers should respect the laws as lawyers, as doctors. But on the other hand, I'd like this bill to go to second reading. Personally, I think we need to discuss a number of things. I'm going to say this on one particular case where an engineer or an electro engineer, you're going to find him very hard to teach, and if he's going to teach, you're going to want a pedagogical minimum of him. And he's gonna say I'm not gonna teach here for that money, and you're gonna ask me to do the pedagogical minimum, Director. I'm gonna go to some factory. It's very hard, if not impossible, to get a teacher's degree today. They teach these professional subjects mostly by people who are and were good masters, made high school, and really there are very few engineers there. On the other hand, I know that this law makes teachers really want to learn, complement education, and that's a good thing. It's kind of like this so far, I'd say, a semi-finished product, because when I looked at it, I'd find ten ways to circumvent this law if I was head of school. And it needs work. Or let's just say that we're going to shift the law's effectiveness by five years, for example. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u15	I thank Mr Novotný. With another factual remark, which we have become increasingly active at the moment, I have five more, Mr. František Adámek is registered. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u16	Hello, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I'm not like all the previous teachers, so I was a little provoked if I could put it in quotes, Mrs. Putnová. More like what I learned from my constituents, after all, you all received different emails, etc. I think, in principle, the road is right, but I would not see it just as my colleague Putnová said it, because there are examples of another life. I'll tell you, my colleague. You're a special educator, you've been teaching special pedagogy for 20 years, with absolutely great results, and you have to make, I don't know, how many esemestral studies just to learn general pedagogy. I admit it seems to me, and I say I'm not even an educator, to say the least, I'm not a teacher, special. It's not just those who want to be out of the system and don't want to follow the law. A second example of life. You have a degree in high school as a teacher, a kindergarten teacher, a preschool facility, 20 years or over 20 years you teach at first degree, you are a model, awarded by the Czech School Inspectorate, and you have to graduate. By the way, with the special pedagogy, because if I have good information, this offer isn't in public universities, then you have to pay for it in private. All I'm saying is, in my opinion, the law needs to be released for second reading and discussed further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. Another point of fact is made by Mr Martin Lank. Before he gets here, today at 14:00, Mr Stanislav Berkovec apologizes. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u18	Beautiful afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I come from a teacher's family, and I've had a short episode where I've also been involved in education in some way. I'm just thinking - do you really think that an educator who has 30 years' experience, after doing some kind of mandatory minimum or graduating from the qualification, will start teaching differently? I have my doubts about it. You know, I'm deeply convinced that teachers who, as they've always said, have a gift from the Lord, and that's just gonna be good teachers with a pedagogical minimum. And then, unfortunately, there are educators who will never be good teachers, even if they have three colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u19	Thank you, Mr Lank. With another factual remark, Mr Andrle. Please, Mr. Ambassador. With pleasure from your granddaughter, tell us about who will teach her in the future. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u20	They were two grandsons. I would like to say in advance that I agree that this bill should go into second reading, because it is a very important matter. My point is, however, that this proposal does not take into account the very high-quality teachers who do not have the necessary qualifications, compared to those who have the necessary qualifications, but who may not be able to teach or teach poorly. That's one thing Mr. Lank said in front of me. And the second thing is that I read in the explanatory memorandum that it wouldn't concern the state budget. I'm asking what kind of money this is going to be paid for. 'Cause if it's 10 grand. potential students will be at the faculty when I know 50 thousand. It's for one pupil for one year, so if they're there for a year, two, three, they're going to be 1 to 1.5 billion. koruna costs. So whether it's from the Ministry of Education's budget or the state's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u21	I thank my lucky grandfather and the Member. Mr Roman Váňa came forward with another point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is such a serious point under discussion, I am trying to turn it into something I understand. Since I'm not a teacher, I found an example of myself in the area, in the security area. That's just for the record. If you wanted to become a police sniper, you would have to take the appropriate course, training and pass the appropriate exams. And it turns out the Snipers of the Rapid Deployment Unit, i.e. the most devious, never took these courses. That sounds like terrible information. But then it was explained - because they run the courses. So the lesson here is that you don't have a formal paper or qualification, it doesn't necessarily mean you don't know how to do the job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u23	I thank Mr Váňa. With another point of fact - and the five factual remarks I still have, there are still five and there are still more - Mr. Jiří Zlatuška is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the problem that we are here for is a reprehensible neglect of this situation from previous ministers of education. The problem lasts, the legisvacance was ten years. None of the previous ministers did this. It's only now that it's been discovered that there's a lot of trouble with unqualified teachers. But I'd warn a little bit about the stories of the life we use here. We have seen here recently that even the qualification of the native language is very problematic. Because we also have people here who, at the moment when they hear someone with another language at C2 qualification level, are seeking an interpreter, even though they are trained linguists. This creates a proposal, as it is presented, a problem of proving and following other standards. In that language, for example, only the problem of how directors will prove that they have teachers with the appropriate native language, which paper will be required to do so, it only converts it to another problem of this type. The links to the Labour Code in case a qualified teacher is found are the same. The proposal also ignores the fact that at the moment when the study is divided, it would be at least appropriate in some way to gauge the qualifications acquired at least at the Bachelor's degree, or at least to describe what an excellent teacher awarded by the Czech School Inspection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u25	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. With another point of fact, Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u26	Good afternoon, Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. I think that the Education Worker Act is a very important moment, because we have all been through the education system as we sit here. And not just us, but our children will also be going through this system. I see the problem from the point of view that, of course, on the one hand, there are a group of educators who could, in their own way, rely on the fact that, as in the Czech Republic, it is sometimes customary, the problem goes away itself, and therefore they did not enter the education system. But on the other hand, it must be quite objectively said that some faculties, or let's say that there were fields or professions that the faculties did not offer. So, with good faith, they couldn't start studying. I would like to ask all of you to think objectively about this problem and resolve it definitively. I find it very positive that the current Minister wants to resolve this problem and does not just want to delay it, as we were used to in the past. So let us please be objective and try, as far as possible, to redefine all the breaking moments that might bring us back in the future to the fact that we haven't worked something out, and let's move this bill to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u27	Thank you, ma'am. With another factual remark, Mrs Nina Nováková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u28	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, of course, what Mrs Putnová said - that is a very important element, and that is that we must decide who we are giving a positive signal to. We believe that the positive signal should be given to those who work in schools for the generation that we most care about. Ladies and gentlemen, the result - one of the basic results of the educational process at all levels of schools is the competence to learn. This means that we actually want teachers to prove themselves to have this competence. That's the first thing. And the other thing. I believe that if experienced teachers re-enter that learning process, into teaching faculties, we will have one more very important contribution from this, and that feedback will be given to the teaching faculties if they really prepare educators for what they need in schools afterwards. And we hope that there will be additional benefits when teachers, who are considered good directors, who show the will to continue to educate themselves, will also take a critical approach to the process of how they themselves will be taught.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u29	Thank you, Mrs Nováková. With another factual remark, Mr Josef Vondrášek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u30	Good day, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd only like a short and real one. I'm not a teacher, I'm a mayor, I'm a teacher, my wife's a teacher. And I would argue a little bit with my colleague Putnová, the study that somebody can start today - I think it says start and finish successfully in ten years. But the question is, what did it say that there was a place to study what had to be studied? I'm more concerned about one thing. There's a certain age, there's a certain period of practice, and that period of practice actually makes it possible that it doesn't have to be another education. And there's such a pretty obsessive, there's "according to the kind or type of school." So elementary school has three types - primary school, elementary school practical, elementary school special. This means that a teacher who has 20 years' experience is richly fulfilling the required 15-year limit, which has been under the law so far, so he taught ten years at primary school, ten years at special or practical, but if the director catches the type of school, it doesn't meet. In the kind of school it meets. I'd ask the Minister here to sort this out in some way, because it's too much power in the hands of the directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u31	I thank the honourable Member and, for now, with one final point of fact - another - Mr Igor Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u32	Thank you, Mr President. A respected colleague, ladies and gentlemen, a man whom I greatly appreciate once told me: "High school is not a guarantee of intelligence. " I would like to add another small statement that college is not a sign of intelligence, but also of competence. There are many and many teachers and teaching staff who, although they do not have a prescribed education, are significantly higher on the basis of their life and teaching experience than some college students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u33	I thank the honourable Member and I wish to say that all of us who have a university do not take it personally. Another with a point of fact - Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u34	Nice and pleasant afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members. Let me just say a few words on the proposal and on the subject at all. I am a teacher in my profession for the 5th to 12th year of mathematics and chemistry, I worked for 14 years in education, three of which as deputy school director and six years as director of one of the largest schools in Opava-Kylešovice. So from my experience, I can say that for every school principal, surely the best worker is the one who is qualified. This means that he has a professional qualification that understands his work and can work with children. Unfortunately, what is - and as director, I say this frankly, universities do not produce high-quality pedagogical workers. Perhaps it is also because universities are too distracted from reality. Because if they weren't taken away from reality, they'd know what to teach future teaching staff. And if a teacher comes to elementary school and doesn't know how to deal with conflicts between pupils, how to deal with conflicts with parents, how to approach education, then I think it's probably a mistake on the part of universities. Another very important factor for this is that school education concepts have not been very successful in the past. By constantly changing, chaos arose in schools and the quality of basic education was created, as is currently the case. And I hope that when the situation calms down that everything is going to be okay, because there are a lot of good teachers in schools who like to work with children and who are trying to involve the general public in their work with the school. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Lady Anna Putnová's final point of fact so far. Madam, your name will be said and it will be quieter. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the doubt that was raised about the date whether the teacher must have completed his studies or just begin. Indeed, it is a condition for him to start a study, and the deadline for completion is not set. In that sense, I think that even the draft law is quite tolerant. And if I have the floor, it won't give me a say in the debate we've had here. I think it is very dangerous to question formal education. That's the bear service we do to teachers. We all want teachers to be personalities, moral authorities that will have a good effect on our children, and we want them to be qualified. And if we so publicly question formal education, then we are very badly serving teachers, for whom we sometimes fight in a number of cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u37	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. With another factual remark, Mr Jiří Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u38	I would just like to underline what Mrs Putnová has just said. It's very important. It's really dangerous to ignore someone's ability to qualify. If we want to have a debate about the fact that college is not needed or that a lot of teachers are good without college, then let's try to turn the problem into one of us who would be willing to raise his hand to cancel compulsory school attendance. Because even without children going to school, they can grow up to be valid citizens and sensible - and it may be completely unnecessary for us to send children to those schools. I stress, I mean it as an absurd case, it's not a serious proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u39	I thank Mr Zlatušek, and since I do not see any further factual point, we are getting to the duly signed up Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u40	Mr President, fellow Members, I think, and the discussion that preceded it has shown a number of factual points that none of us will question the importance of teaching pupils and students qualified and respected educators who have the necessary education and knowledge. A teacher's personality, which is crucial in the educational process, can prove a lot, but also spoil a lot. In any case, adequate pedagogical education is one of the conditions which should lead to the required results of this process. This target condition was given by the law on pedagogical workers, which was approved ten years ago. Teachers without the required qualifications thus had sufficient time to start studying and complete this education. Many have not done so for various objective and subjective reasons. Some relied on the fact that the effectiveness of the law would shift again, others believed the school director who sometimes downplayed the situation, at other times didn't solve it, others wanted to study, but they could not, as Mrs Dobešová also pointed out here, because the needed field was not open. The result is a situation where there are 17,000 teachers in the Czech Republic without qualifications. Part of them is already studying, part of them plans to start their studies. If they had not done so, they would have had to leave the school on 1 January 2015 under the current conditions. [[15.20 hours]] However, this would cause collapse in many places in regional education because there is no one to teach. The numbers are clear. In the Czech Republic, the proportion of teachers with no professional qualifications in the total number of teachers is 11.9 %, 4.3% are already studying, 2.7 percent are expected to start their studies, unlike 4,9 percent, who probably do not start their studies. The proposed proposal is therefore intended to address the current situation by introducing some exceptions to the required qualifications without taking responsibility from the directors for the professional and pedagogical level of education at school. At the same time, it is agreed with pedagogical and other faculties that ensure teacher training, which fields and programmes offer to complement the required qualifications. I know this solution is not ideal. On the other hand, it must be realized that it is not possible to close your eyes to reality and leave both the founder and the director without help. The draft law submitted was discussed with the school unions, which agreed with the current amendment to the rules for granting exemptions that their requirement for teacher qualifications was permanent. I have to say that I have a problem with extending the state of the school teaching cantors without qualifications. On the other hand, I realize the risk that if the amendment were not adopted, there is a real collapse in many places in regional education. I therefore refer to the need to approve this amendment, especially if the exact conditions are the possibility of carrying out a direct pedagogical activity for persons who do not qualify for professional qualifications under the above-mentioned law. It is a specific range of pedagogical staff, namely native speakers, pedagogical staff of certain part-time subjects, as should be the case, for example, with recognized experts in their fields, artists and coaches, as well as those who have had sufficient experience for at least 20 years, reaching at least 55 years of age. The legislation provided for should also apply to pedagogical staff without professional qualifications for the necessary period and to the extent necessary, but only on condition that the school management does not have a qualified compensation for them and threatens that the school will not be able to provide education to the extent necessary. Finally, I would like to emphasise the following. One thing is the law, the other is ensuring the conditions for the work of teachers. First of all, teachers need to be paid, which means finally giving them a salary corresponding to the importance of this profession. This condition is not fulfilled in the long term. Let us not be surprised because graduates of teaching faculties and other universities with teaching disciplines are running away from us. If we are constantly subject to a stupid media campaign that presents the work of teachers exclusively in terms of "what they want forever, they are constantly on holiday and still want a higher and higher salary" and is silent about the difficulty of this profession, especially today, when the aggression of pupils, students, apprentices, but also their parents is growing, if the real salary is distorted, which significantly lags behind the salaries of other college students, not to mention the comparison with other countries of the European Union, then we will hardly see the arrival of qualified experts, especially men, in education. In this context, although I know that this law is not about it, I would like to remind you that the school environment is not just a teacher. It is also made up of non-teaching school workers, cookbooks, janitors, housekeepers, cleaners. These workers take an average salary of around 14,000. That's rude. Imagine how they can live with him. Completely to the end. Despite all the reservations submitted by the bill, the KSČM will support the club. We are here to avoid an announced collapse in regional education. At the same time, however, we are concerned that the exceptions do not become a permanent state for teaching without proper qualifications. Given how many schools, a number of teachers, a number of directors, are waiting for this amendment, I will propose that the period between first and second reading be shortened to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u41	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. With another proper application, Mrs Martina Berdychová is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that I support the referral of the draft amendment to second reading. However, the law on teaching workers does not quite address the area of workers for children with specific educational needs. As companies such as the Czech Professional Society for Inclusive Education, the Expert Committee on Education at the Association of Organizations of deaf, deaf and their friends ASNEP, LUMOS, EDUin, need to include other positions in Section 2, which defines who is a pedagogical worker, namely an interpreter of the Czech Sign Language, a school special teacher, a school social worker. The Association of Educators in Social Education proposes the classification of the profession of social educator. None of these entities was included in the external commentary procedure of the draft amendment. And the issue that the bill amendment does not address is certainly wider. I would mention the absence of an interpreter's profession in the Czech Sign Language. In the current wording of the law, interpreters are led as assistants of the educator and this has proved to be inoperable. In turn, the situation in which they are led as non-teaching workers does not meet the requirements for financial evaluation of interpreters. It is therefore useful to introduce a new category of pedagogical worker, an interpreter of Czech sign language. It should be clearly specified what expertise this profession should meet, which is completely lacking in the current system. In practice, it was shown that the current regulation did not really ensure the control of the communication system for teachers. For example, only proof of passing a short-term course is sufficient. The law, in its current wording, does not provide guarantees that a teacher communicates with children a system that children actually understand, namely their language. This issue should also be resolved within the framework of the amendment to the Act. Even deaf children should have equal access to education, and it is missing today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u43	Thank you, Mrs Berdychová. With another proper application, Mr Novotný is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u44	Thank you for the floor. I, once again, on the subject, ladies and gentlemen, of the time sequence, unfortunately, the school year is different than the calendar year and the school directors are now preparing the schedule and the whole events of the 2014-2015 school year at this time. At this point, they already know the number of pupils applied for, which means they know the number of classes and they have to start securing the lessons. That means they're getting a little bit into the situation of whether or not they can count on some teachers. That's why I'm going to support the proposed shortening here, because I think it's not five minutes to twelve, but five minutes to twelve. We've heard a lot of comments here, and we've actually been going back to history. I personally think - and I thank the Minister very much for trying to deal with it - that we should put it into second reading and deal with the law there a little bit from the point of view. Firstly, I think that it is necessary to divide financially those teachers who have qualifications and who do not have them in a significant way. Then I think motivation for teachers who are not qualified will certainly increase. [[15.30 hours]] Secondly, I think we need to look at the concept of qualifications. As the concept of teacher qualifications is defined today, it creates a number of problems, of course. Let me give you an example. A teacher who is qualified to teach in high school may not be qualified to teach in primary school. And unfortunately, there are similar things in the definition of qualification. So I think this would remove a whole range of today's unqualified teachers - I don't think the unqualified teachers should be removed, but the problem of their unqualifiedness. And lastly, I would like to say so much that non-teaching workers who work in schools in various professions have been mentioned here. And that's really where the wages are very rusty. The janitor's working for 11 or 12 grand rude today, and it's not conceivable for school to get a good janitor today if he doesn't offer him an apartment for free or some similar benefits. So I also think that this problem needs to be dealt with in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u45	I thank Mr Novotný. With another application with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayor Mr. Kalousek are registered. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly support the position of Mrs Putnová, who basically expressed the opinion of TOP 09, and tried to explain that, from our point of view, although we are discussing a very serious issue of the Ministry of Education, it is not just the issue of the Ministry of Education, but that it is a certain principle of respect for the rules that, if declared sufficiently forward and clearly enough, at the moment when they are to come into force and we are beginning to soften them, it is a huge moral risk for all who have taken those rules seriously, and it is a huge victory for those who have laughed at the rules because they believed that no one will ever follow them anyway. And that is far from just the question. This relates in the past to the issue of hospital debt, when some managers took seriously that it was really the last time, and they began to manage responsibly. And their colleagues were like, "Oh, they're gonna make us feel better again." And they managed irresponsibly. And when the decisive date came, it often happened that those responsible were defeated and the irresponsible were the winners. And now we can take one category at a time. It's happened many times. And it's always a huge moral risk, and it's a huge demotivation for those who took the rules seriously. I don't want to think about the individual fate of one or the teacher right now. On the one hand, I don't understand it, and on the other hand, I think that this individual case may sometimes really look absurd in the light of an absurd view. Maybe I understand the Minister's proposal. However, the Chamber of Deputies, which should make systemic decisions, should decide systemically in particular in respect of the rules and should support those who have taken these rules seriously, have acted according to them. If you say to them today, "How stupid of you to take it seriously, that you went to any school, that you were educated, that you applied for it!" You could count as the others, that we could soften things up after that... So how do you want people to take seriously the rules we make from here? I very much ask that, in the light of this principle of principle, which was said here by Professor Putnová, be understood not only in relation to the Ministry of Education, but also in relation to the respect for the rules that we are declaring here if we want someone to take them seriously sometimes. And that the winners be those who are responsible for the rules, and that the winners be not those who give up the rules, because they believe that then some chládek will always come and try to soften them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u47	I thank Mr Kalousek. I have two factual points here. First of all, with the factual remark of Mrs Ivana Dobešová, followed by Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u48	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon again. I very much appreciate the words that have been said here that the problems of the Ministry of Education are very important to the whole nation. But let us remember that we are talking about more than 11,000 teachers who, if we release them on January 1, this problem will become not only a problem for the Ministry of Education, but also a problem for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and we will seek support for these educators. So I am in favour of moving this law forward to second reading, although, of course, I respect the fact that rules should be followed in this country. On the other hand, let's face it, the last ten years have been ruled by those who today veto this law! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u49	First of all, Mr Tejc, and then Mr Kalousek, the President of Mihola, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u50	Thank you for the floor. On the other hand, I would remember another law where we insisted on the rules concerning education as the House, and how it turned out afterwards. I remember when it was launched into force a service law involving police officers and other armed forces. At the time there was also an obligation to have a university for certain positions. And a number of investigators, who had decades of experience, were of high quality, preferred to leave, stopped investigating, even though the fact that they didn't have college didn't affect their work. Many of those people who did this school didn't get an education in law or economics, which they could use to investigate serious crime, but there they became gardeners, bachelors, there they studied at odd faculties like in Pilsen. And I don't think the effect was any of it. It was rather negative. Because instead of doing their job, they were only educated in the fields to have the title that the law assumed. We should look at everything with reason. I don't know whether or not the settings that were adopted here in the law last time were correct or not, I don't want to evaluate that anymore. Today we are dealing with a specific problem and I think that if we look at it with common sense, we should support the proposal put forward by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u51	Thank you, Mr Tejc. Subsequently, with a factual remark by Mr Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u52	I apologise to the honourable Member. I don't know how to mix educators with cops. But I'd like to answer the lady of the house with the fact that she's certainly right. Yes. These are several thousand educators. And certainly good educators - I am not from judging their work - who will get into serious trouble if this proposal is not accepted. And on that second bowl of scales, please, there are several thousand educators, and there are more who have taken their duties seriously. And we laugh at them in the face when we accept this proposal and say, "You're stupid to take your duties seriously." You could have waited for Chládkův's proposal, and you didn't have to bother. It is such a moral risk that I warn and support the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u53	I thank Mr Kalousek. And there is a shrink of factual remarks: Mr Mihola, Mr Ondráček, Mr Hájek, Mrs Dobešová, Mrs Semelová. Sorry, after Mr Ondráček, Mr Laudát, I have him registered here. So first, Mr KDU-ČSL, President of the KDU-ČSL, Mr Mihola. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. [[Mr Mihola, off the microphone, speaks to the President.]] Sorry, if it's a proper application with priority rights, then after factual remarks. Thank you. It follows with a factual remark by Mr Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u54	Mr President, colleagues, I was briefly in school as Deputy Director, and what he says -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u55	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'm going to step up to the sharper teaching methods. Please keep it quiet. I ask that the Members do not take pictures of one another, do not lean into the benches, otherwise they will copy "I will behave in the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations" a hundred times. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u56	I'm glad my colleague Schwarz is trying to make me laugh. děkovat you, Broňa. Back to school. It is nice what Mr Kalousek, a fellow Member, says. But what did his governments and the governments he was involved in not being here? Ten years was known what the problem would be here, and nothing was done for it. The universities that are here do not allow and do not have such fields as to enable educators who fail to complete their education. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about because I've been to this school and I've been trying to get a school like this for my educators. Unfortunately, there were no such schools in the Czech Republic. And unfortunately, when you teach something in universities, you learn that modern teaching techniques are meotar and diaprojektor. It's a thing that one of my friends learned last week for a state exam - a meotar and a dia projector, a thing that was used maybe 30 years ago. Thank you for your attention. Let's let it go to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u57	I thank Mr Ondráček. With another factual remark, Mr Laudát. Mr Hájek will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u58	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Dobešová brought me to technical school. Don't be mad at me. Is that what you think government members were supposed to walk and say to ex-comrade directors and directors, "I'm sorry, we've set some conditions for you"? And what I remember was extending from five to ten years. They ignored it, and now they're gonna scream. Who are these people who haven't completed their qualifying education in ten years? So they should count on them not to teach. The school heads were supposed to count on them to find other people. There are regions where a number of teachers today have been given a statement that there is no work for them and meet all the qualification requirements. What about the 11,000 people? And, of course, there may be teachers among them who, for objective reasons, did not have the opportunity to complete it, I would like to see it. However, it certainly isn't 11,000 people. How do these people who ignore the basic requirements set by the state raise what kind of kids they're gonna raise? What's gonna happen to these kids? Don't be mad at me. And how will those who are the great victims, whether time, financial, family, complete their education? You guys are crooked, but that's not new. This is where the Civil Service Act bended in a completely awkward way. So you're here to break any rules. We could just sit in the pub over there and stop making up standards for this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u59	I thank Mr Laudát. After that, Mr Hájek. Mrs Dobešová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u60	Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to a number of speakers here, I agree with a large majority. Yes, in my opinion, it's a non-systemic move. On the other hand, I ask: Ten years ago, this law was passed. And I assume that when such a law is passed and the Ministry of Education is the guarantor, in 2004, some analysis will be done that says, "Yes, we have so many people, so many teachers and so many educators." This means that I think there should be a department at the Ministry of Education that is supposed to work systemically on this law. That means I'm going to interpel the Minister to tell me who did it, which minister did it. Mr. Fiala is here. I would ask him through Mr President, because unlike me, he has experience with the administration of the Ministry of Education, as it is. Why didn't he, whom I consider to be an experienced, clever, educated person, figure it out? This means that today we are in a situation where Minister Chládek is here today, who, after ten years, has received a black Petr here and, of course, is in a difficult situation, because on the one hand, there are 11,000 people we have to deal with at this point, on the other hand, I agree with both Mr Kalousek and Mr Laudát that this is an entirely unsystemic step. Now how can we get out of this vicious circle? The solution is simple. I think we need to discuss a solution. That is why I will also support the referral of this law to second reading and come up with a solution that may simply be more systemic in the future, because it is not the only law that imposes some things for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u61	I thank Mr Hájek. Then I have three factual points. Then Mr Mihola's priority right and Mr Kalousek's priority right. So, with the first point of fact, Mrs Ivana Dobešová. With a point of fact, Mrs Marta Semelová will be prepared. Please, Madame, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u62	Thank you. I'd like to respond to two of my previous speakers. I would like, Mr Vice-President, to address Mr Kalousek through you with the fact that I want to respond to your position that if we pass the law to second reading, we will disrupt the system solution that the TOP 09 is trying to achieve at the moment. I would like to remind you that Law 563/2004 entered into force on 1 January 2005. Immediately after its entry into force, the qualification period was extended by five years and was extended by another five years after five years. I feel that for ten years there has been enough space for your party and other ruling parties to solve this problem systemically. I'm afraid they didn't. Now I think it's your chance to make yourself more visible. Furthermore, I would take your view that there is a need to diversify those cantors who, in their own way, took the law and educated themselves. Yes, I agree. So let's pay them better. Not punish those who didn't qualify to cut their wages, but let's add to those educators who qualify. And I think you will be grateful to more than 11,000 educators - 214,000 educators in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u63	Thank you, ma'am. I'm sure the teachers will be added. I'm going to politely ask the lady to lower her voice next time, because some of the colleagues here have been terrified. [[Glee in the hall.]] Which is probably a good thing. With another factual remark, Mrs Marta Semelová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u64	I would also like to respond to some colleagues who reject this law, who propose to reject it. I mean, who's gonna teach at those schools? You're gonna make life difficult for the community. You're gonna make life difficult for the regions. Note that many of these schools are small, in villages where there is really a need for 50 percent unqualifiedness, and it is a problem. So who's gonna teach there? Let's shut down the schools, shut down the elementary, high school because we don't have qualified cantors and those cantors, as we've been told, are going to the employment office! That's one thing. Second thing. I would like to ask, through the President, a colleague of Kalousek: Do not put all the cantors in the same bag. I'm talking about those who haven't started studying. Many of them wanted to start studying over the course of ten years, but they really could not, because these fields were not opened in universities. [[15.50 hours]] They weren't open at the faculty. So this wasn't about some disgusting thing. I'm not saying that a certain percentage of teachers were disgusted, but it's not all of them. I'm swamped with letters and e-mails, where they point out how they wanted to study, and they just weren't open and they didn't stand a chance. And one final point. If you're saying what you've done in the past period of the right-wing governments, if you really were to raise those salaries the way we asked for them as opposition, then the situation is different, too, because those schools would be attended by qualified faculty teachers from teaching faculties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u65	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. Three more factual points. First of all, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u66	Thank you. I don't know why there's such a heated debate about why someone needs 200 votes to be satisfied that everyone agrees. I mean for myself, I don't know what "let's diversify educators" means. Speaking of teachers, I really wouldn't want to diversify them. On the other hand, I am amazed that the Minister of Education will somehow arrange for 11,000 teachers to receive the required qualifications. How? The lady here spoke when the law came into force, and she forgot that at that time her coalition partner ruled when she looked so fiery at us. But I don't blame them. Just 2004, efficiency 2005. I don't know if the Prime Minister, that was a lot of prime ministers over the last three years, but now I don't know exactly which Social Democratic Prime Minister was there when it was approved. But that's not important at all. But the idea that the Minister of Education would somehow make someone get qualified is just smiling. [[unintelligible]] Yes, he may suggest that the qualifications are not required. We will discuss this in the first, second, third reading. I think it's kind of coming up that the law is going to vote, but you don't have to yell at us if we don't agree with you. You have a lot of majority votes, but don't make it impossible. To ensure that the Minister of Education arranges qualifications for 11,000 educators. And just for the record, in our region, the number of jobs in education has decreased by 1,600 in the last two years. And that's one of 14 counties. Now I don't want to say, I don't have the statistics on how much jobs in education as a whole have decreased for the whole republic. So that we wouldn't get scared here, scared the parents that they wouldn't have anyone to teach since January. And as long as they don't blame those who, without a doubt... Our Minister of Education had excellent qualifications, he didn't need to catch up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u67	I thank Mr Stanjur. With another factual remark, Mr Petr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u68	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I might add one more example to all these examples. You know, we're not dealing with the problem of just qualifications here. When I looked at the layout, the biggest problems are basically in border areas without trying to wrong anyone. And then there's a big problem with qualification under Law 563 in small-class schools. Because remember, I'm getting those complaints from the directors, and that's basically a problem that needs to be dealt with. They have some short-term jobs, mostly education, which is mainly taken by governesses who have high school education. And here comes the problem. He's also an unqualified educator who can teach. So there are more problems in education, and we've reached some point where we need to solve the problem. That's why, and we talked about it briefly today on the subcommittee, yes, I intercede for it, let's admit it to second reading, let's discuss it, tune things up. And I think the space is here. And basically, let's not get excited because I feel like everyone really understands education today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u69	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. With another point of fact, Mr Zlatuška, Mr Fiala will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here at the moment when there are complaints about the university address, that we have not given the opportunity to study the relevant fields, I would also like to doubt that because it is not supported by any data, and I would also like to point out the analytical report of the Ministry of Education, which has not followed this category at all. So the complaints about what anyone couldn't study are certainly not very useful. And it's very important that we move in parameters where 50 percent of teachers only have secondary education. And he doesn't have a high school or a college education that doesn't have a pedagogical focus. This, in my opinion, is a serious problem and will not - I am not such an optimist as to think that it could be solved by this amendment. Any flickering we do at second reading will only cause us to have a very imperfect standard that will be leaky. If there was anything sensible about how to proceed, I would change the 2015 Act to 2017 and leave the Minister for another two years to prepare a real system modification that would not just be an immediate flicking hole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u71	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. With another factual remark, Mr Petr Fiala. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only briefly respond to questions relating to the role of the Ministry of Education and the Minister of Education in this matter. What we are dealing with here is to some extent the result of the decentralization of our educational system, which is not entirely positive in all respects and which, of course, entrusts all competences in the field of staffing of individual educational establishments to the founders, respectively. the founder appointed by the Director. Therefore, the Ministry of Education cannot take care of specific positions, but only creates system conditions in cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies. Now to the question of whether or not the ministers acted. In this partly irrational debate, you can see how on the ground plan of this law, which was adopted in 2004, it is not possible to come up with any sensible solution. This is why, when I was the Minister of Education, we started preparing other, much better and much more systematic solutions that the Czech education system lacks, and this is a career order, virtually. a career system that would solve all these problems that we're dealing with here right now and we're going to deal with them. And if I had enough time to complete my term of office by the end of the term of office, we would have a career system prepared and approved, and we would have a solution to this problem at the beginning of 2015. So the Ministers of Education, or at least one of the Ministers of Education that was addressed here, did, and the solution was. And I think that if Minister Chládek continues to take steps to prepare the career system, then we will come to a good solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u73	I thank Mr Fial. I'm not seeing any more actual applications yet. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Mihola, followed by Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and the starosta. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I have the right of priority, I have waited almost to the end, because I have the password of the audience altera pars - let the other party hear it. So I listened with great interest to the debate not only of fellow teachers, which are not very few here, but also of course of other colleagues. And I would like to add something to that as a person who has been in education for 20 years, of which 15 years at the Faculty of Education. I would like to present at the beginning that the KDU-ČSL club will support the proposal we are discussing through the second reading. [[16.00 hours]] As has already been discussed here or pointed out that there was a deadline, a ten-year deadline, so I would join one of the previous speakers, I think a colleague from the YES was who rightly pointed out when there are such deadlines and we know where the shoe is pushing us, so there should also be some follow-up check. It seems to me that not only in this matter we are very often surprised then, it is similar from a completely different case, but as we are surprised that the children of Husákův's children have somehow caused this problem of lack of places in kindergarten schools, etc., when of course it could have been suspected already during the 1990s and somehow prepare for it. So if there's no follow-up, then we're probably quite surprised. It may seem that the teaching faculties have also fallen asleep. Here I would like to point out a little bit that the teaching faculties have been in a rather difficult situation, especially in the past ten years, perhaps more like fifteen, after 2000. In particular, before such a mass admission of students to universities occurred, many of them were even considered to be cancelled, for example. It was pointed out that the disciplines and similar matters were being dubbed. I remember that very well. Many of these faculties eventually transformed into either philosophical faculties, which already had so much teaching education - I don't want to say they didn't accentuate at all, but, of course, there is a pedagogical minimum in terms of their own teaching work in education, unlike the teaching faculties. Or parts of them then became, in terms of my field, for example, historical constitutions, etc. I also remember the time when there was a relatively wide variety of offers called. An extension study, which was then much better for teachers from practice to be able to bite or accept than a regular daily study. But even today there is also a wide range of combined study offers. And believe me, even there I have the experience of teaching that the approach to adult teachers is a little different because of their different approach compared to regular day-to-day students. So that's something that's so complicated, the idea of that study for a teacher who's mature or with experience, I don't think that's necessarily a problem. There's been a reference to career order here. I beg you what I am a teacher, I hear, I have promised how teachers will actually motivate you, because of course the problem is not the last ten years, but I have also experienced language school, state language school, where I studied German in 1990, native speakers accepted to unqualified teachers, so it was just some Čechovídeňák, just from the street, who knew German only by moving there for a while, better than the teacher taught only in the Czech environment. So the career order is still being talked about, and the motivation is therefore greatly lacking. Of course, I would very much like every teacher to have a proper education, as is the case in the surrounding countries, after all. However, I believe that in the Czech university environment, quantity over quality has won a lot, and therefore I am not so optimistic about the fact that it would in some way automatically guarantee the competence of the teacher, his relationship to work or his relationship to students. Another follow-up question, but I don't want to get too far away from the subject, is that, although we have all right in many schools with qualified teachers who have a university and a diploma, they actually teach a field that they haven't studied. And it is certainly not a few cases where this happens that the history teacher teaches gymnastics and is glad that he has any place where there is simply a lack of those places in schools, in elementary or secondary schools. But I'm going back. Personally, as has already been said, I tend to think that I see a larger division between a good teacher and a bad teacher than between a qualified teacher and a so-called. Unqualified, therefore, understand without a university qualification. I have also had my own experience here from a different area than directly from education, from tourism, where, as you know, a person did not have to have exams, so-called. Guide exams. I've been doing this for a long time, I've achieved significant achievements. In 2001, I even won a national guide competition at the GO fair and did not have a guide exam. To tell you the truth, if someone - now I don't have time to do it, but if someone were to drive me to do it, that means graduate from people who undoubtedly have less knowledge of it, whether in the area of history or geographical as I do in the field, it would be against my hair, however I acknowledge that the regulation has something to do with it. But I just wouldn't go backwards. On the other hand, not every native speaker or God-given musician or painter is somehow just an automatic good and knowledgeable teacher. That's obvious. Finally, I would say that 11,000 teachers without the necessary qualifications are, of course, alarming. We shouldn't let this go on, of course. I think the faculty is ready to do a lot of work. And I firmly believe that even the financial motivation that has also been mentioned here can make some sort of order. When teachers qualified and unqualified are divided, there will undoubtedly be some motivation. Otherwise, I firmly believe that school management, whether fundamental or secondary, will become mostly wise and enlightened directors, who will be able to consider and wisely measure that our future generations educate those who have a real relationship with the profession and self-education, and not just those who simply have to make a living. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kalousek is next in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. From the moment I joined the debate, I have been approached by two colleagues, so let me briefly respond to them before I say what I said. I was terrified to accuse Mrs Semelová of throwing all the teachers in the same sack. Oh, my God, I really didn't mean to. Knowing that Mrs Semelová was also a teacher, I really didn't intend to do that. And if that's what it sounded like, then I'm deeply and sincerely sorry to all those roughly 145,000 teachers. Mrs Dobešová said we didn't have a system. I believe that the system was in it, however it was modified and in the last five years it was ten years, so that there was a clear system and clear information that everyone had for ten years, that if they at least applied for the completion of the study, they would comply with the rules. If they blow it off, they won't comply with the rules. If we change the rules in a fundamental way to those people who didn't give up, even to those who bailed, less than six months before, in other words, we do exactly what we're not supposed to do in any game, change the rules during the game, commit a serious moral hazard. And whoever wins that gamble, there's no doubt about it. The irresponsible ones. There's the problem of changing your system. And now what I signed up with. But it is my last request, and Mrs Dobešová may be amazed. It's a request in the name of those she calls good, but unqualified teachers - I call them irresponsible, but it doesn't matter. It's a request in the name of those who bet on changing the rules during the game. And I ask for an elementary responsibility to the irresponsible. If, now, this bill, as the journalists say, we are going to blow off the table, the unanswered in mid-June will get - they aren't in the slip, they still have a chance - they will get clear information in mid-June that if they don't get into some program that meets their qualifications by the end of the year, they have bad luck on January 1st, and they have enough time and space - and the faculty are ready to do it - to do it in that six-month period. [[16.10 hours]] If we don't do this, we're going to release it to second reading - and many of us here say, "Well, we're going to let it go to second reading, but we don't know how we're going to vote yet" - if we don't do it, we're going to do it again in September, maybe we'll also approve it in September, then the Senate will come back in October, maybe, and then who knows if the Chamber of Deputies will still be at the end of October, if it doesn't dissolve in the meantime, or if one of the prime ministers hasn't changed his mind eight times before. Anything can just happen that causes that suddenly in November, not in mid-June, these people will face the fact that this January 1 is irrevocable, because this bill will no longer be approved and no one has to approve it. They won't be able to make it in November. There's still time today. So I only took the liberty of volunteering to ask you for an elementary responsibility to the irresponsible, because you may be giving them unnecessary hopes and thus throwing them into a socially unsolvable situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have one factual remark from Mr Zlatuška, so I will ask the Member. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u78	Mr President, I would just like to ask you, what Mr Kalousek said here a moment ago, so if you would tell him that he should look at the rules at the moment he talks about something, at a time when he claims that we have the opportunity for teachers to come in and start studying right now, so if you would recommend that he open up a college law and look at the time limits, he would look at such a thing that if he is to issue admission procedures, he must write out two months before he writes out to take a look at the procedure for verification of study assumptions and also open the deadlines for obtaining the decision on admission to study. As he imagines - how those teachers are supposed to do it by mid-June or early July, so it is definitely a procedure that is not feasible. And it is not feasible, among other things, because there are certain rules that prescribe the Higher Education Act for these matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u79	Thank you. Mr Kalousek was present, so he heard what he had to study. It shall be reported with a factual remark. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u80	Thank you. I would like to thank the professor for his recommendation and tell him that before I spoke on this subject, I fulfilled the recommendations. I read it. So I know they have the chance, and those programs are out. I understand, Professor, that each of us is interested in something else. I don't have to study the statutes of Agrofert. But what you just said isn't true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u81	Thank you. Before we continue our discussion, in the debate, I have a note here. Mr Jiří Junek apologizes and apologises from 16.15 hours for work reasons. Another point of fact is registered by Mrs Anna Putnová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned in my introductory words that I very much appreciate the initiative carried out by Minister Chládek in this matter, because he met with the Dean's Dean's Association of Faculty of Education and asked them to write extraordinary deadlines for additional enrollment by students-teachers in courses to be written for them. And they did. I also know that they have written out and open up and open up courses that maybe only have two or three students. And yet the faculty of education did it. In this respect, I think that the initiative of Minister Chládek should be appreciated. There have been some questions that would be worth analyzing and responding in more detail. However, I cannot agree that we could simply say that there will be no one to teach in individual locations. This is a very simplified statement that we would have to analyse somehow. And if Mrs Semelová turned to the question, "Who will teach in these locations?" I don't think there's ever been any mention of how many graduates of teaching faculties haven't found employment. There's over 6,000 of them. That's not what we've been talking about. So I think we have a number of suggestions for further discussion. And if we want to do something for education, let us be consistent. Because if we ask for consistency from teachers, they will be able to do the same in schools and ask for the same from their pupils and also their parents. And that is the way to improve our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u83	Thank you, Madame. I had Mr Zlatuška signed up here with a point of fact. So that doesn't apply anymore. The other is Mrs Marta Semelová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u84	I'd just like to react briefly. Of course, I looked into the situation in individual locations. Something else is unqualified by teachers, something else is the teachers who are at the employment offices, because there are those disciplines, the aprobations, the subjects they're supposed to teach and so on, they just don't correspond absolutely in a number of cases. That's one thing. The other thing - unless you move them from one place of the Republic to the other end and give them housing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u85	Thank you. At this point, I do not see any Members with a factual remark or duly entered into discussion. In that case, I am ending the general debate. And we'll vote. First, for recap. I have here a motion from Mrs Putnová to reject the proposal. [[The rapporteur points out that the Minister wants to say the final word.]] Yes, that's right, thank you. So one more step back. I will ask the Minister for the final word, or the rapporteur for the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u86	Well, thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak at the end of the debate, which was very trash, rich. And basically, when I think about the ideological ballast that was in some performances, it's more or less copying the debate that's going on in the professional and lay public. On the one hand, there are those who are talking about why we should make some exception when we already have the qualification, we had to do it, we had to commute, on the other hand there is a group that talks about the fact that we didn't have the opportunity to finish it, we have nowhere to complete it, we only have a bachelor's degree, we don't follow up with a master's degree and so on. That was said here, by the way. There were a few points that I would very much like to respond to specifically, namely, and then I will try to answer those questions that have fallen together here. I would first respond to Mr Fial. Well, don't get mad at me, but a career order wouldn't solve this problem. He's just dealing with a different situation. Yes, it's also related to the qualifications of teachers, but it won't solve my situation that the current situation is such that there is a large part of unqualified educators and that we have at least 650 schools in jeopardy, where from 1. 1. stops teaching. As far as Mr Kalousek is concerned, I understand him internally, but I must say to the honourable Member that I have inherited this problem. I've inherited a whole bunch of other problems. The resort's in a detachable state. And the fact that we're here to talk about telling somebody that he's stupid, that he's finishing his qualifications, I don't think we're gonna figure it out. [[16.20 hours]] It's my duty to deal with the situation. I do not understand when this law has been in force for ten years, that an analysis has been made for me, which shows you how schools look specifically in individual regions, in individual districts, in individual areas. At the same time, I do not understand why I now had to deal with teaching faculties to open fields that were not open in the past, or there was a huge overhang of applications that were not satisfied. These are things that are objective and are objective reasons why some teachers could not complete this qualification. Let's just start by saying who's an unqualified teacher. Who's an unqualified educator? For some of you, it may be a surprise that an unqualified educator may even be a college student, even have a pedagogical education, yet he is unqualified because he has a focus on a different type of school and he teaches on a different kind. Unfortunately, we're facing a decision right now. There have been some specific questions I can briefly answer. The impact on the state budget will have no effect on this bill, aside from the fact that it will save more or less. Because the decision to open some courses to teaching faculties will expand the possibilities for other students, so we have already done so with teaching faculties, and we have allocated CZK 20 million from our budget to the Ministry of Education. Furthermore, there were several questions concerning the area at all, how many unqualified educators are there. We now have a map that, at this point, after all the steps we've taken, after all the open courses, even now, it has a real impact on 7,000 teachers. Yes, I agree with Mrs Putnová that we have 6,000 teachers at the employment office. In addition to the fact that about 85 percent of these 6,000 never want to return to education, there is a problem that they have a different qualification than what we need and that they live in a completely different location where we have a problem with qualified educators. Therefore, in the next proposal, we also prepare a register of teachers so that we know how many teachers we have maths, physics, how many we need in the future, how many of them retire, etc., because no one has ever dealt with this, so we have an overage faculty, which is why we have a whole range of educators of one subject who are at the office of work, but we lack a teacher of another subject and we can't get hold of it. The amendment is very balanced. Now we're faced with a decision and we can do three things. We can either do this again in the same way as before, postpone it by two years, by five years, by ten, or we can even cancel it, and we can say, whether it is in the competence of school directors - by the way, the director is also responsible for the quality of the pedagogical process. We can do that. We'll lose control of the state, of course. Or we can do a second option, strictly insist that the law be in force as it is, but from 1. 1. 2015 I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at least 650 schools will have a significant problem, how to maintain and provide education. I ask what we will do not with the teachers, there we can discuss with Mr Kalousek whether it is their fault or not, and surely the debate will be very good there. But what are we gonna do about the kids at the schools? It is my duty to provide education at these schools. And if you look at the proposals, it's really a proposal that compromises after the debate with the school unions, which, by the way, insist on novels, compliance with the law, university master's degree, they support this, yet they agree to the changes, because they themselves know what a huge problem it would be in the field. Even faculty teachers agree, which of course have an interest in all having a master's degree, because they logically educate them. And when we look at the first change, a 55-year-old teacher who's been teaching for 20 years. We think that if he teaches twenty years that he has proved for a long time that he probably has some qualifications and ability to teach teaching, and if we force him to complete a college just before retirement, we may lose experts and even in localities, and I visited the Karlovy Vary Region and other locations where you will be clearly named by specific schools, and they are based on an analysis where no one will be able to teach you. Especially in locations where the lowest percentage of students from all over the Republic is. Second exception. Well, believe me, maybe a top performer who's agreed to teach two hours of music education would rather end up in school than complete his qualifications. Same expert. For example, the financial director, who will teach two hours of financial literacy in high school, prefers to say: "Dear people, that was good will on my part, and I helped a specific vocational school. Same with the native spokesperson. That's why we have a remark everywhere, which I add to that, that the director also has to be responsible for the quality of the process. I think that what you have put on the table, although I understand all the reservations and point out again, it is a problem for all of us, folks, it is also a problem for your predecessors in the Chamber of Deputies, because if it is not constantly postponed and not shifted, we are not now faced with the decision that we have thousands of teachers without qualifications here and we do not know how we will teach in some schools from 1. 1. 2015. We now have the opportunity to be at that turning point, it is a reasonable compromise, which clearly starts that the qualification must be there, giving a clear signal to the teachers that they must have the qualification, but at the same time allows the process to logically start. And not that ten years ago, we said it would be, we closed our eyes, and after ten years, we opened them up and found out it wasn't. For this reason, I ask you to submit this proposal to the second reading, where, of course, we can also discuss the individual nuances of this proposal. I ask you on my behalf, but I ask you on behalf of the educators involved, as well as the children and their parents concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u87	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u88	Good afternoon again. Colleagues, what's the rule here has happened. Education law, one of the richest debates. If you are interested, there were six duly applied for, 32 of our colleagues, some of them repeatedly, with factual comments. I would like to say that this shows that all who have been elected to this honorable meeting have our future in mind at first, that is, educated children - and educated children start from educated teachers. I would like to say that the teaching faculties - I would like to stand up for them - did not fall asleep because when we prepared an amendment to the law on teaching workers in the last parliamentary term, we asked the Ministry of Education to make it quite clear what it wanted from the teaching faculties to remove the lack of qualification of teachers. I would say that it was only this government and this Ministry of Education that started working on it. And then I won't forgive myself for one poke at the end. Through you, Mr President, Mrs Dobešová. I would very much like it if, just as she spoke strongly here about how we should pay qualified teachers, so that she would speak equally forcefully to her chairman, and therefore to the Minister of Finance, to stop thanking him for whether the cantors will receive a percentage or 2,5 percent, and with her vehemence and strength, she would also work on him to give more of those percentages to education and to the salaries of teachers who are qualified educators. Otherwise, two proposals were made in the debate. The first proposal was Mrs Putnová's proposal to reject the law at first reading, and then Mrs Semelová's proposal to shorten the deadline between first and second reading to 30 days. Mr President, I think that these are two proposals that you can now put to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u89	Thank you. Before we proceed to the vote, I will sign you all out first and ask you to rejoin the system. We'll take it one step at a time. So first, we will vote on Mrs Putnová's proposal. It is a motion to reject the proposal. I'm putting it to a vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? He got held up? I'm done with the vote. It is vote number 33, for 15 Members, against 121. [[of 153 logged in]] This proposal has not been adopted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. [[Newsletter: Return.]] No, I can proceed this way. So organizational - with priority rights is the report of Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u90	I am sorry, Mr President, for raising my hand before you said that the Organising Committee proposes ordering the Committee on Education, Education, Culture and Sports. I signed up with the proposal, given that during the discussion, the chairman of the thoughtful committee on the commandment demonstrated the elementary ignorance of the current situation, I ask the House to order the Committee on Regional Development, as this, of course, concerns municipalities and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-011-042.u91	Thank you. I have factual points here, but since the general debate has been concluded, at this point only those with priority rights can report. We'll keep moving. This means that the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. I've registered a different proposal, virtually. an extension to the Regional Development Committee. Do you have anyone else's proposal to which committee this should be referred? It's not like that. So we're going to vote individually. So first, I will vote on who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss science, education, culture, youth and physical matters. Initiating vote. Okay, now it's on. All in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Thank you. Who's against it? Who got held up? I'm done voting 34. For this proposal was 152 Members, against 1. [[of 156 registered]] The commandment proposal was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the commandment of this proposal to the Committee on Regional Development. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the commandment, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? He got held up? I'm done voting 35. For this proposal was 93 Members, against 25. [[of 157 logged in]] So this proposal has also been accepted. Next, we will vote on a reduction to 30 days. This proposal is from Mrs Semelová. So at this point, I'm going to put to the vote who is in favour that the hearing be reduced by 30 days. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who got held up? I'm ending vote number 36. For there were 83 Members, against 53. [[of 157 logged in]] This proposal was adopted. The discussion was shortened by 30 days. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, as well as the Committee on Regional Development. That concludes the discussion of this point. I'm opening a hearing on paragraph 63. It's...
