ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 239/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and other related laws /house print 258/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u2	Good evening, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, under the authority of the Government, I would like to submit a draft amendment to Act No. 239/2013 Coll. amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on conditions of operation of vehicles on roads. The Government submits to the Parliament of the Czech Republic a draft law amending Act No. 239/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on conditions of operation of vehicles on roads. This is a proposal for a partial amendment to Act No. 239/2013 Sb., which amends the Act on the Conditions of Traffic of Vehicles on the Road and which has not yet become effective. Law No 239/2013 Sb. brings the scope and content of a fundamental amendment to the Act on the Conditions of Traffic of Vehicles on the Road, inter alia. a new concept for the registration of road vehicles and the allocation of registration marks to vehicles, as well as a number of significant interventions in the field of in-service vehicle control and the operation of technical inspection stations. Law No 239/2013 Sb. take effect from 1 January 2015, with the exception of one already effective provision. The Ministry of Transport therefore works intensively to ensure smooth application of this law in practice, both by preparing the necessary decrees for the law, and by preparing methodological instructions and preparing material and technical security of the application of the new regulation. As part of this preparation, the Ministry of Transport found that the application of certain partial provisions of Act No. 239/2013 Sb. already on 1 January 2015 is associated with a high risk of problems in their technical and organisational security. These are two areas for adjusting the allocation of registration marks to a road vehicle and one area for the content of the technical inspection information system. Specifically, it is the allocation of registration marks on request, the issue of so-called. third plate with registration mark, replacement of damaged plates with registration mark and issue of plate with registration mark on the vehicle carrier and ski. It is also the insertion and processing of data on the presence of a vehicle in a technical inspection station where the law proposes the use of video recordings in the information system of technical inspection stations. In these areas, it would most likely not be possible to secure the smooth running of the relevant information systems of technical inspection, production and distribution of specific plates with registration marks from 1 January 2015 would be associated with higher costs compared to the original assumptions. To this end, it should be added that the existing Central Register of Motor Vehicles in an application operated is not ready to register these registration marks on the request and issue of a third registration mark on the vehicle at all. In practice, this would mean increased costs in the order of perhaps several tens of millions of crowns. In view of this, the Ministry of Transport considers it useful and just necessary to propose a one-year shift in efficiency in the three areas, i.e. On 1 January 2016. Other provisions of the law, which will become effective 1. 1. 2015, does not change. In terms of the scope and content of the law, it is limited and the scope of a small area which is not necessary for the application of other provisions of the law. In addition, it should be noted that the Ministry of Transport is now preparing a new concept of production and distribution of the registration plate, which we expect to discuss and accept next year. The substantive draft of this law will be submitted to the Government of the Czech Republic no later than October this year. From this point of view, it also seems useful and economical to postpone the implementation of new elements in the field of registration marks for a later period. In this context, I would like to remind you that after 13 years, the Ministry of Transport issued a public contract for the supply of registration marks and thus interrupted the existing monopoly of a single supplier - Hicon. Adding to this seven years when this company supplied registration marks to the Ministry of Interior, which managed the central vehicle register, is a permanent twenty-year uninterrupted period of monopoly of one supplier. In this respect, too, that we are preparing a comprehensive change in the registration or operation of the central register of motor vehicles connected to the EUCARIS system, which currently does not allow our central register, we propose that the Chamber of Deputies accept the proposal of the Ministry of Transport and postpone these very small interventions by one year in its scope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u3	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Karel Šidlo. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, members of the Government, honourable colleagues, the Minister here described in detail the amendment tabled by the Government on Law 56. It is essentially not a fundamental amendment to the law, it is only the effectiveness of the original amendment of the law, which is to be shifted. The Minister has also explained the reasons for this. I had to be the rapporteur on what was submitted, and that was the reference report and the explanatory memorandum to this press, and I believe, therefore, that if this press is ordered and referred to committees, there will be enough room to discuss in detail the history and development of the transitional period, which should have set exactly new conditions that were approved by the last amendment. I am not entirely convinced that the period was short enough. I think rather, in the defense of the Minister, I will say frankly that he is in this a little innocent, because there have been so many changes since the approval of this amendment at the Ministry of Transport, that there was not quite logical continuity in the steps that were to follow in terms of preserving everything that the amendment offered. From my experience, I can say that what we experienced with the vehicle register between 2012 and 2013 is a very warning memento for the whole Czech society and especially for us as politicians, so as rapporteur, I am ready to accept this request for an extension of the transitional period because I think that if something is true in the explanatory report, it is that the system is not ready and that we would certainly encounter in practice that the individual measures that the previous amendment has brought will not be implemented. So, perhaps that is all for my report, and otherwise I am still reporting for the debate, because I have been asked by the Minister to adjust the time limit for committee discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u5	Yes, thank you, and I'm registering your application. I am now opening a general debate in which I have the President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And before you take him in, please, colleagues, let them hold out and give us room to react.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u6	It won't be that fast! So we don't think that since it's 21.12, we'll blow it out like this in three seconds, and that's it. I have to go back to history and describe it. We're discussing this at an emergency meeting because the Ministry of Transport has failed extremely. That's just a simple sentence, and I'll tell you why. And I can't completely apologize to the current minister. She's been there five months, she's five and a half months from now, and she already knows she can't make it. So he had a total of 11 months to make it happen. In three and a half months, I had to make sure that the vehicle register didn't collapse, and I had an enemy company against myself who thought he had all the cards in his hand to stand. And we did it in three and a half months with a team at the Department of Transport - and with the help of the Home Office, you have to say. In three and a half months! And those suppliers really thought we were in the corner. They've given us four bids in a row. I refused the first, and everyone was worse. The second was worse than the first, the third was worse than the second, and the fourth was the worst. They kept raising the price and delaying the deadlines, thinking they had us in their hands and in their corners. We found a solution, then we gave them a hello, it works! I've discussed the law patiently in the Economic Committee for five months. I have found more support for him than the support of the Coalition Members. The original proposal was to make it work from 1. This year's 7th. I myself proposed extending the deadline to January 1, 2015, I think the Senate approved it later in August. It was either the disbanded House, or it was just melting. However, the Ministry of Transport had 16 months to prepare itself. Of the three things they want to postpone, the least I can do is fight for the mark on my wish. It wasn't my invention, I inherited it. If it were just about that, I wouldn't be performing at all, or I would just point out that the Minister would check out the people who were in charge, who even the Žák couldn't get rid of, and who still couldn't prepare it. And the excuse that ministers switched twice - well, but the people in charge didn't change! First of all. I don't think the relief is acceptable to those S.T.K.s at all. There's no reason! This has nothing to do with the new way of issuing the registration marks of the STK. You can already say the two sentences: Registration plate, and we all call it a license plate, but it's called a registration plate, and a technical inspection station. It has nothing to do with each other. If we're pushing it a year and the Minister wants to introduce a new system, and maybe he'll succeed, I don't know, I guarantee that the new system can't be launched from 1 January 2016. It won't! Even if it was approved in January, as if nothing has yet been approved by the government, even if it had already been approved by the Senate in January and signed by the President, then how much time do we have until the end of 2015? Eleven months - those that this year were not enough for a law on which ministerial servants should have worked since August last year, and I would say that even longer, because by being relatively strong political support, it was not really a coalition versus the opposition, so they could almost be sure that it would end well in the Senate and that the law would not be rejected or something like that. It seems incredibly brave to me, and I say, with the exception of wish signs, I don't want to defend you, which I don't really care, this proposal, and at the same time interpret that we need a service law to have a quality and professional civil service. In this case, quality performance was simply not performed. I don't know if you think 16 months is enough to implement a law adopted by a broad political consensus. Not to me! I assumed it was with enough reserve to run all the tests, test operations, etc. I find myself 11 months after it's come out in the Collection of Laws that we can't make it. I quote, it's still five-and-a-half months of time, and it can't be done! I don't understand the Minister's coming up with this, defending this laxity and the wrong procedure. I don't understand the government's approval. The proposal basically put itself on the table for the government. Look at EKLEP as fast as you can. And I don't understand the fact that we have it in an emergency meeting. Now we're gonna cut back on the deadline. Why? So the same ones who couldn't make it work a year longer? That has nothing to do with the change in registration marks! Not at all! So the proposal is wrong, it rewards those who haven't fulfilled what they have, and it looks like they're dealing with a problem. But the problem will be solved by those people who will continue to deal with it. That is what I think is not the right example and that we should not accept such a request. I'm not gonna propose rejection because I said that one of those three things can basically wait or never have to be. I didn't prefer wish signs because I inherited the law when he was in the House. We did not want to complicate the debate on other matters, and the rapporteur was involved in those many months' debates. I think the economic committee discussed it about three or four times, we finished drinking it, we were looking for a match, and we finally found it to find out after a year that it just couldn't be done and that it didn't make it. This is bad news and we should not set such a bad example for others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u7	Thank you. I also note Mr Laudát's factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support here for second reading, but on the other hand, I am curious about the legislative crisis that will come, I do not know when, because this government has decided in its legislative plan to redesign the globe, and we have already heard from Minister Válková that she will postpone something, but here you can see exactly where your Civil Service Act will lead and why we have postponed it, and even the sensible Social Democrats, because by that time by 2006 there were reasonable Social Democrats in the government, why they did not want it, because now they just did a postman from the Minister. The next time they have tenure, they'll learn a lesson and graduate from King Vávra. So they'll laugh at you later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u9	Thank you for keeping the time limit. The rapporteur is another one enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u10	Thank you for the floor. As I have already announced in the news report, I have been asked by the Minister to make a proposal to shorten the time for committee discussions by 20 days, i.e. Forty days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u11	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the appellant if he is interested in the final word. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that the opposition will also be released or ready to vote in favour of the release of this bill to second reading. I would just like to respond to what Mr Stanjura here has said and what he has to deal with as Minister of Transport, even for a short time. I, unlike Mr. Stanjura, who himself admitted that he was 3.5-4 months old, so I had 72 hours on the vehicle register. Minister Žák, my predecessor, has issued a tender for operators with a deadline for submission of tenders 27. 3. and the contract with the existing supplier concluded by Mr Stanjura ended 30. 3. I had 72 hours to keep the vehicle register system from shutting down, and there weren't a bunch of citizens with aluminum underarm tables, and it wouldn't be possible to register them. I inherited the same with the digital cards of the tachographs. Just for refills. As far as the Central Vehicle Register is concerned, it should be said that the Central Vehicle Register State does not operate. It is operated by a private company and operated on the infrastructure of a second private company. This vehicle register does not reflect the conditions of the Eucaris international surveillance system, i.e. system against (?) tracking stolen vehicles. We're preparing a complete change. The change will consist in the state running this register, managing it, and this system will be linked to all the European Union's standard agendas. I had a last meeting with Mr. Hermann, Minister of Transportation of Bavaria. During the negotiations on rail and road infrastructure at various points, the Minister asked me when our central register would be linked to all the structures of the European Union countries. I promised him we'd do it in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u13	Thank you. I note here Mr Stanjura's factual remark, but since the general debate has been concluded, please give priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u14	Thank you for giving me more than two minutes. Well, it's like pears and apples mixed together. I'd almost feel sorry for you if I didn't know the situation was diametrically different. We didn't own the source codes in December 2012, we didn't have access, and we had an enemy company that thought we were in his hands. And we chose a solid firm. She too took the risk and took it without having the complete things that humanly normal behavior would proceed. But that doesn't mean at all that you had 11 months after your arrival to implement or force the office to prepare what is needed. That has nothing to do with it. You've only prolonged a year's contract, that's what you did right. I never criticized you for that. That the minister who was among us wrote it so that he probably thought that he was going to be there for eternity, and he was going to deal with it, or I don't know why he wrote it so stupidly, he had the documents ready long ago, just as he had the documents prepared, as you praised yourself, as you wrote after 13 years. The documents have been completed since August 2013, I don't know why Minister Žák was holding them up. He doesn't sit here, there's no point in arguing about it. But since I'm an original professional programmer, believe me, it was completely different. Totally different. You solved a completely different problem, which was about one percent of what was a year ahead. And that's not what I'm saying to compliment myself. You changed a solid contractor with a normal contract that normally treated the Department of Transport, and that's what you prolonged the contract to. Absolutely fine. All it took was political courage to think that you were giving someone out of your hand to make it work. You have shown that political courage in this case. I don't think the opposition criticized you for that. If there's anyone else, I really don't know. But we're running away from what I said, from the big one. And you know as well as I do that those people in charge of it didn't have personnel exchanges and personnel shocks there. So I don't think the Minister has been told by those who, the specific, the true information. I don't know why they're making excuses for the minister. No minister personally addresses the implementation of the law and the preparation of the documents. But the main reason, and I'd like to hear that - let's not talk about the registration marks. Why do you propose a delay at the technical inspection stations, when after some long, really several months of debate, we have come to tools to minimize fraud? You know that many stations already have it, they had it before the law voluntarily, many prepared for it. And as usual, those who believed that they didn't have to do the duty will earn it. This is not the first time in this parliamentary term, it is not the first time in the history of the Czech House that we will eventually punish those who have taken the law seriously, who have taken seriously the statutory duties and prepared themselves. And I wish you every success in that system change, that's a risky move. I won't support it. But we can talk about that when you bring in a specific bill. Once again, the system that has somehow stabilized is completely and fundamentally rocking and we'll be back at zero. We will redefine the assignment for the new information system and we will look for a completely new supplier for a completely different system. That's risky. But that's not the subject of negotiations today. But I don't understand, I really don't. And we're going to try to suggest in second and third reading that this applies to those STKs. I wouldn't want you to send signals that it's already certain that it's going to be a year away, it's not certain. This should be done at full pace, because today's law says that it will be as of 1 January. And if we can change the law, at this point, we just don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-012-018.u15	Thank you. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Whoever agrees to order the proposal to be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 48, to which 143 are registered, of which 128 are in favour. [[No one's against it.]] I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will now deal with the vote on a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 40 days. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 49, to which 135 Members present are registered, of which 126 are in favour. [[Against 3.]] I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. This proposal was ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee and the deadline for discussion in committees was shortened to 40 days. [[21.30 hours]] We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
