ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 /German press 331/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the present proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Babiš, whom I ask to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 was approved by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament at first reading. The draft state budget was discussed in the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Allow me now to thank all the gessional committees for discussing the various chapters of the State budget and the Budget Committee for the comprehensive discussion and processing of the documents for the second reading. I assume that the amendments to the draft state budget will be tabled at today's meeting. In this context, I would like to point out that the General Treasury chapter has a budget of more than 144 billion. CZK contained in tens of items. I would like to point out in advance that any amendment relating to the chapter of the General Treasury must necessarily include a specific specification of the items concerned, otherwise such a proposal is unvoting. I would also like to point out that the Budgetary Rules Act clearly defines the legal minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve, which amounts to 0,3 % of the total expenditure of the state budget. My duty in voting on individual amendments will be to monitor the minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve. The amendments, which would mean a reduction of the government's budgetary reserve below its legal minimum, are therefore unvoting. I will communicate my opinion on the proposed amendments at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. I, in my decision, ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The resolution was delivered as print 331/2. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and, at the same time, his President, Mr Václav Votava, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, government, let me introduce you to budget committee resolution No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I'm begging for a little patience because it's going to be a little longer than usual. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Gregor, the report of the Chairman of the Votava Committee and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament: I. Notes that all the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the chapters and headings of the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2015, as ordered by the Chamber of Deputies by its resolution No. 466 of 22 October t. r., and adopted their resolutions on them, with the exception of the Committee on Petitions, which discussed Chapter 304 - The Office of the Government and the Resolution on the Chapter did not adopt, the Economic Committee which discussed Chapter 322 - The Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Resolution on the Chapter did not adopt, the Constitutional Legislative Committee, which discussed Chapter 355 - The Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and the Resolution on the Chapter did not adopt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u5	Quiet in the Chamber, please. The rapporteur feels that there is too much noise, so please lower the noise level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. II. Takes note of the following proposals for accompanying resolutions from committees addressing the Government: Economic Committee: - advises the Government to increase the amount of the Railway Authority's salaries, including accessories, by 32 400 thousand. CZK and by this amount humiliate the SŽDC subsidy for the transport allowance not paid from SFDI, - calls on the Government to increase the amount of 355 000 000 000 in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport for the cross-cutting indicator R&D&I expenditure. CZK to ensure compliance with the government resolution related to the contribution to ESA for the needs of optional programmes, - recommends that the Government transfer an amount of 84 million to the budget of Chapter 374 during 2015 - Administration of State Material Reserves. CZK for security of crisis situations; Constitutional Committee: - calls on the Government to ensure the drawing of claims against unused non-profiling expenditure in 2015 into staff salaries and related expenditure in order to ensure a stable level of salaries corresponding to the level of salaries achieved in 2014 in Chapter 336 - Ministry of Justice of the Czech Republic; Security Committee: - asks the Government to take up the preparation of the draft state budget for the next period, i.e. for the year 2016 and the medium-term perspective for the years 2017 and 2018 for Chapter 305 - The Security Information Service has dealt with the possibilities of budgetary coverage of staff in a systemised manner, the provision of funds for technical means and the financing of the construction of a data centre, - recommends to the Government that when preparing the draft state budget for the next period, i.e. for 2016 and the medium-term outlook for 2017 and 2018, for Chapter 314 - Ministry of the Interior - dealt with the possibilities of increasing budgetary coverage, especially in view of the need to ensure an increase in the number of members of the Police of the Czech Republic, the funds for investments and the purchase and renewal of technical resources of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps; III. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2015 (the House of Deputies) and on the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 and with the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015 under the House Print 331 as amended by the approved amendments in Annexes 1 and 2 to this resolution." IV. empowers the President - the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic of this resolution - which I have done. The resolution includes tables where the amendments that have been approved in the Committee on Budgets, whether they are amendments that have been read directly during the discussion of this budget in the Committee on Budgets, or amendments that have arisen during the discussion of the various chapters in the various committees of the Chamber of Deputies. So much for the budget committee resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I have yet to apologise to Mrs Adamová from 10 o'clock for working reasons, and then I have Mr Koskuba's request to cancel his apology because he is present. He's been apologizing since 10:00, but he's obviously in the O.R., so please cancel this apology. And we would now start a detailed debate, because at this stage, only a detailed debate is being held. So I am opening up a detailed debate and I have several applications with priority rights. The first is President Kalousek, then President Fiala, then President Okamura, then Vice-President Jermanová and then rapporteur. So Chairman Kalousek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat the reservations and reasons for the draft law on the state budget at second reading and to justify why it is not possible for us to support this proposal after approval of the basic indicators at first reading. I will just briefly sum up that, in addition to the fact that, in our view, the budget is pursuing a very bad and harmful budgetary policy for the future, particularly in its figures, it says something completely different than how government members verbally present it, especially the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The budget does not save routine operating expenses, on the contrary, it increases them sharply. The budget does not release capital spending, on the contrary, it envisages investments lower than the previous government invested at the time of the biggest crisis. The budget quite criminally neglects one of the most important pro-growth expenditures, and that is expenditure on science and research. The budget does not really count, but contrary to verbal presentation, on increasing the efficiency of tax collection, which has been so many times promised and so many times criticized by past efficiency. But with greater efficiency, this proposal does not count. I'm not criticizing that, I get that. But I don't understand why former efficiency was the subject of criticism and why there is still a promise that even the finance minister doesn't believe when he's planning revenue for next year. In order to discuss some of the amendments, I would like to ask three polite questions to the Minister of Finance, and I very much ask that the answers be answered because I believe that discussions on these three issues are necessary. The first question is why, Minister, even in the draft state budget, you are projecting your already famous dislike to comply with the laws of the Czech Republic. This is what we have experienced in the Illustration Act, in the ÚZSVM Act, in a number of other laws, but the budget, which is the main work of the Minister of Finance, would not deserve it after all. And as much as the law requires us to rely on valid legislation, you have planned about seven times as much income as in the past for mining fees. These are incorporated, recorded in the overall balance sheet and there is no valid legislation for this, which is directly contrary to the law on budgetary rules of the Republic. I understand it's not a dramatic number. They're hundreds of millions, but it's respect for the law. Law No 218/2000 Sb. is part of the legal system of the Czech Republic and it is impossible to say that if it is not suitable for us, we simply will not respect it. When the government is doing this, and it is already a number of cases, isn't it the first time that is the guarantor of the rule of law and compliance in the Czech Republic, how can it want citizens to abide by the law? You simply are calm to submit a proposal that is in direct violation of the law, and you don't care how you didn't care in a number of other cases where you didn't respect the law either. I'd like an answer here as to how this could have happened, especially if it's not a dramatic amount. It's just disrespect and disrespect for the rule of law. The second question is directly related to the text that you submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, which truthfully comments on the development of public budgets in the Czech Republic in previous years and for 2015. As many times as you have said that the previous governments have not spared, and only you will begin to save, so contrary to your public statements, you are writing the truth here, and I kind of want to appreciate that. And I will read the truth: a gradual reduction in the general government deficit comes after 2009, but this trend is disrupted in 2014, when there is a deterioration. Why did you approve the 2014 budget, which disrupted the trend of gradually reducing public budgets and improving their state of affairs, you explained last year: We are only three weeks old, we cannot do anything but approve the budget, and then we will start working hard for 2015. The problem is that there has been a change in trend and a deterioration not only in 2014, i.e. this year, but in the H-book, you truthfully admit that you will continue this trend and that even in 2015 there will be a further deterioration in the state of public budgets compared to 2014. And here is the answer to a very simple question of why. Oh, my God. Why? For what economic, macroeconomic, budgetary reasons is the Czech Republic, which has been able to improve the state of its public budgets year after year, why must it make them worse at the time of overcoming the recession and at least partial economic growth? What reasons do you have for suggesting a budget that you truthfully and responsibly say: we are making it worse. Then perhaps the House could have an answer to the question of why. Why do you think it's necessary to make it worse? I'm not saying you're making it worse, that's what you're saying. And you're right. I'm telling you the truth. Just please don't interpret it like Kalousek says something's getting worse. No, Minister Babiš in his material in the notebook. H truthfully describes that there has been a change in the trend in 2014 and that it continues to deteriorate the state of public budgets in 2015. And I think the House deserves a simple answer to the question why. We just want to make it worse because we promised it would be better. I don't know, I'm very interested in the answer, and I'm sure the Chamber of Deputies and the public are, too. The third question also concerns your text and your true statement in the H-book, to which I lean, that improvements cannot be expected without further system measures within the budget. This is a true statement, however, in this text and in your speech we lack any proposals for these systemic measures. In other words, the statement "we are knowingly making this worse and there is nothing else we can do about it without systemic measures that we are not proposing " is the information "we want to make it worse further. " If the information should not sound like this, it should be supplemented: without further systemic measures, which are in particular. I would very much appreciate it, Minister, if the measure, in particular, were not to be an eternal colossal about carousel shops. We appreciate the game, but you don't believe the effect, either, because you're not just planning the effect in 2015, but you're not planning it in the next medium term. So, indeed, what systemic structural measures the government will propose to avoid further deterioration, which the government admits. These are three questions that I think are very serious and deserve honest real answers. Why do you have to despise the law in the state budget? Secondly, why, even in 2015, you consider it necessary to worsen the state of public budgets - which you truthfully admit in your documentation. Thirdly, what systemic measures will be proposed to the government and the Chamber of Deputies to avoid further deterioration - because you yourself write that it will not be possible without them. [[10.20 hours]] The government is shutting down the few shy steps that have succeeded in pushing past governments. Instead of increasing, improving, continuing, they are being canceled. Okay, he has a political mandate to do that, but he doesn't say what he's doing anymore. Instead, he says, "We're gonna make it worse for the better!" Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u9	Thank you and I now ask for a microphone with a factual remark from Mr Volný, and I ask Mr Fiala Petr to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u10	Hello, Madam President. Thank you. Colleagues, fellow Member Kalousek said the Chamber of Deputies wanted to hear. If I, too, am the Chamber of Deputies, I say for myself that I do not want to hear because I have heard it several times. This budget was built with this number precisely because, in times of crisis and austerity, the whole economy was undersized in an incredible way. If it was a good thing or a bad thing, I'll let the experts judge, but this economy was undersized in investment, it was undersized in social benefits and salaries, you know that we were adding to pensions, we had to thaw and valorize the salaries of civil servants, they were just frozen and it just didn't work out. Maybe it was the right thing to do. Therefore this measure and therefore - I have heard it here at least five times. Maybe the Minister will respond, but he doesn't have to say it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u11	Yes, thank you. And now with the de facto Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u12	Thank you for your response to the Vice-President of the Budget Committee. I have also heard it many times on the Committee on Budgets and it is an honest answer: We have decided to make public budgets worse because we think it is so good. And I'm not sure the Minister of Finance has that answer, which is why I'm asking him because he says he's making the situation worse. The answer is why. When will he say Because we think it's a good thing to make things worse, it's an honest answer, and the Chamber of Deputies will settle for it as well as for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u13	Thank you, and now with Mr Fiedler in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u14	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. Madam President, I would like to address the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets. Mr. Colleague -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u15	I'm sorry, through me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u16	Through Madam President. I'm sorry twice. Mr colleague, we have dealt with this here several times, that the figures that you have presented in the draft budget clearly refer to the fact that in the current draft budget there are investments in a lower volume than in the period that you - I am not going to argue about whether you are right or wrong - are criticising. He criticizes it, yes, there were investments in some amount, they were reduced, but we all know that from your numbers that your government is presenting, the investments are even lower in volume. We've been through this before! For proboha's sake, don't keep saying that there are increased investments when we all read from the numbers you submitted that this is not the case. Just for the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u17	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and now please, with a proper application with priority to the right of Mr Petr Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues here will soon justify our amendments and our position on budgets in the various chapters. I would, however, like President Kalousek, like I would like to repeat all the reservations that we had about the budget, so I would like to remind you of some fundamental things that make us dissatisfied with how this budget is designed. You may sometimes watch TV and maybe you've seen a show called Expremiers in the last few days where yesterday or when a person named Stanislav Gross appeared and who they said was the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. I'm not saying that everything that's on TV is supposed to be true, but that's pretty credible information. And I say this because both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are often telling us that only the right-wing governments have ruled here, the ODS government with Miroslav Kalousek over the past 20 years, and that it was still being stolen at that time, so it is good to remember that there were other governments, that there was, for example, a government headed by Prime Minister Špidla, Gross or Mr Paroubek. And I'm not talking about it by accident. I am talking about this because, at that time, the Minister of Finance was the current Prime Minister, Mr Sobotka, and during this period, which is not so long over, a certain budgetary policy was implemented here, and the budgetary policy was very irresponsible because, at a time when we were experiencing economic growth, these governments - Špidla, Gross and Paroubek - created a significant deficit in the state budget. And this government continues precisely in this trend, and all the mistakes that we experienced in the Czech Republic between 2002 and 2006 are reflected here again. It is not being saved at a time when we can save money, money is being spent on an increasing number of officials, the deficit is increasing, despite the fact that we are expecting economic growth and, luckily, we have quite good economic conditions in our country. I would also like to remind you that the budget with a deficit of CZK 80 billion is over for the second year, and that the economy is expected to grow next year, but the government is surprisingly presenting us with a budget with a deficit of CZK 100 billion. I do not want to be suspicious, but I almost think that despite this government's wasteful policy, it is likely that the government overestimated the budget of 100 billion so that in a year it could tell us how well it worked and what austerity measures it implemented. When we look at the structure of the budget, we find that the government, of course, takes away all citizens, but distributes money to selected groups. And if you look where the money goes, as an example, I can tell you that they are going to higher operating expenses of the ministries, to increase the number of officials, and of course all of this must be done at the expense of someone, and it is happening at the expense of businessmen, it is happening at the expense of small entrepreneurs, it is happening at the expense of active people. Let me tell you here, let me give you some very specific examples to see how the government's word contradicts the figures that the government itself has presented to us. Expenditure on the activities of individual ministries and authorities is increasing to CZK 81 billion per year, which is CZK 10.7 billion more than it was in the previous period. And let's look at the individual authorities. The government's office will pay CZK 55 million more on salaries next year, employ 43 more people, plus CZK 30 million to pay the salaries of officials at the Office of the Government. This is a very interesting policy, especially from the Prime Minister, who tells us how to stay frozen or have almost no rise in the salaries of constitutional officials. See what he's doing at his office, at the Office of the Government. The Ministry of Finance will pay CZK 630 million more on salaries in 2015 and will employ additional 600 people. Of course, the Ministry of Health must in some way resolve an entirely irresponsible decision on cancelled fees. 5 billion crowns must be spent on this. [[10.30 hours]] The Ministry of the Interior is an interesting example, on the contrary, the Ministry of the Interior is reducing some of the resources, but let's see which ones. Unfortunately, the government at the Ministry of the Interior reduces research, development and innovation spending, reducing it by 43 percent - 270 million. Kč. Ladies and gentlemen, I would understand that research funds will be reduced at the Ministry of the Interior if there was a new concept of research and if those funds were distributed in other chapters in a different way. But that's not what's happening, it's the means that are completely lost to research organisations. On the contrary, the government is not investing where it would make sense and where it is important for the future prosperity of our country. Let us consider, for example, the area of research, development and innovation, which, as we may agree, is a key area in which we should put funds. The expenditure is included here in the total volume of less than 35 billion. CZK, from which directly from the state budget it is 26,9 billion. Kč. If we compare it to 2013, we'll find that it went to research and development almost 40 billion. Kč. So the government is reducing the funds that go into research from 40 billion to 2013. 35 billion. Kč. But neither is spending on investments that the government talks so much about. For example, the Ministry of Transport - this is where the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure reserves have been used in recent years, but if they had not been, investments in this area would have been significantly lower. The government plans to collect 30 billion in taxes. more, but it doesn't invest that money, it doesn't spend that money well. This money wants to eat and give away. If we imagined a household budget, it would be like you have a mortgage to pay off, and you have a car loan, and you want to pay children's circles. Well, instead of doing it, when you're getting quite a bit of income, you'd hire a cleaning lady, a babysitter and a chauffeur, and that's how you'd manage your home budget. Is that absurd? Well, of course it's absurd, but that's exactly how the government has drawn up this budget, and the government is acting like one. The government's telling us they're saving. Look at the numbers submitted. Mandator spending reaches historically the highest level, increased to 713 billion. CZK and make up 58.5% of the state budget. Of course, the government has to take these enormous expenses somewhere, and the government, for example, takes them by stopping investing or not investing enough. I would, through Madam President, remind Mr Volný here, who spoke of these investments, that, compared to the last year of the government in which the Civil Democratic Party was involved, investment is significantly reduced. [[he discusses in front of the benches with other Members]] In 2013, investments amounted to 100 billion. CZK and here in this budget are planned investments of 76 billion. Kč. Come on, what's the budget for investment? Where's the money going? What are you investing in? Do you even ask yourself these questions? In 2013, the state budget ended with a deficit of 80 billion. CZK, but the investments reached a completely different level. Here we have a hundred billion-dollar deficit planned, and we only have an investment of 76 billion. Kč. The government is handing out money, the government is pretending that there is enough money, but it has no solutions to questions that are really crucial in terms of the future and future budgets. It has no solution to the issue of pensions, it has no real solution to economic growth, it is not about to invest, it is not about to build new motorways, it is not about to invest in better health care, it does not support research and development. This budget is in no way pro-investment, it is not pro-investment. The numbers show clearly, some of them I reminded you of. This budget is redistributive. This budget takes and gives only to selected groups and, above all, contributes to the operational costs of individual offices and to the salaries of officials. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens' democrats will try to correct this budget by means of the various amendments that we are going to put forward, but it remains the fact that, in this form, we cannot in any way support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u19	Thank you. Now we will deal with two technical remarks. Prime Minister Sobotka comes to the microphone first, then Mrs Černochová prepares herself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u20	Thank you. The honourable Members, honourable Members, the Member and President of the Fiala have described the future of the Office of the Government as increasing salaries in the Office of the Government next year. I can assure him that, first, they will increase as much as anywhere else, which means 3.5 percent. Secondly, I am afraid that the future will not happen, as Prime Minister Fiala described it, because the Office of the Government has a CZK half a billion deduction for the ProMoPro case, and it has a reasonable penalty, which is roughly the same. This means that if the levy is realized, we will not increase wages, but we will close, we will shut down, and the Office of the Government will not have a dime for its activities. I just want to remind you that it was Mr Topolánek and Mr Vondra, who sounded so intensely the Czech Presidency, until the financial office charged the Office of the Government with this fine. I'm saying this because it was one of the first things I met when I became Prime Minister. The new head of the Office of the Government has informed me that there is an investigation into the tax office and that this is a decision to make. Then we got the decision - that means half a billion fines, corresponding penalties, which, of course, is well above any budget of the Office of the Government, even if it would be slightly increased as a result of an increase in salaries of 3,5 percent. And two more points. There won't be the million-dollar rewards as they were under your government, because they're gonna pay and they're gonna pay the Civil Service Act. I had already reduced the remuneration so that we would never get into such a situation as when former ODS officials received annual fees of CZK 700, 800 or 900 000. So there's already been a major change, and there's going to be a Civil Service Act here. As far as the salaries of Members and Senators are concerned, I have always said that they should not grow faster than those of public sector employees. And that's an opinion that I keep having in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Now, please, to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Černochová. I ask that Mr Kolovratník be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would perhaps recommend to the Prime Minister more than to preach to us here what was, is and will be to get ministers who - if you look at the bench behind me, there are so pitifully few. There are no ministers here who have... Prime Minister, I beg you repeatedly, you did the same to me yesterday. [[He's turning towards the Prime Minister.]] Madam Vice-President, please order the Prime Minister not to speak to the debate when the speaker here at the speaker's speaking office wants to discuss it properly. [[Speech is in vain trying to interrupt the President.]] So just keep your mouth shut, Prime Minister, or sit down, but don't argue with me, don't talk to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u23	Prime Minister, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u24	So I would ask very nicely that you interrupt this meeting and that the Prime Minister get his colleagues from the government into the bench so that there are not only four ministers, but all ministers here! None of the previous governments have ever dared in the past to discuss the most fundamental, most eminent document, the law that is the state budget, so that there are so pitifully few ministers here. Last year, because you didn't have a single minister here, we even had to interrupt the meeting. So I'm begging you to get your colleagues, so there's more of you here, and these benches aren't so thin behind me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u25	Okay. Madam, I am asking if this is your procedural proposal to interrupt the meeting. Unfortunately, I have to say that it contradicts the Rules of Procedure, because the representatives of the government are here. [[Mrs Černochová seems to be responding from the point of view.]] Well, if that's the case, I'll call my colleagues and have your procedural proposal voted on. For the screen recording - the Prime Minister votes with a replacement card number 18. [[Members from the lobby are returning to the hall.]] [[10.40 hours]] Before I vote, I'll have you all checked out. I'd like you to register with your cards again. I am now opening the vote on the procedural proposal by my colleague, Černochová, to interrupt the meeting in the presence of all the members of the government. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I conclude the vote, it is the vote with order number 18, to which 129 are entered, for 48. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will now continue with the factual remarks. Mr. Kolovratník's microphone, please. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Members of the Government, colleagues, I will not seal the Prime Minister's mouth, but, through Madam President, I will turn to President Fiala on transport. That means, Mr President, you do not have precise figures, accurate information, but the budget of the SFDI has something over 92 billion, either if not the highest, so almost the second highest historically, including EU funds, that is correct to admit. But as far as I know, land purchases are starting, I personally checked in eastern Bohemia in connection with the construction of R35 road. The incoming Minister of Transport, together with the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, dealt intensively with the D8 motorway and the cave-in. As far as rail is concerned, we have ambitious plans and are about to start preparing high-speed connections, high-speed railways in a very short time. So please don't say that the government doesn't build transport infrastructure and that it doesn't plan to invest in transport. That's really not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Please have Mr. Bendl come to the microphone. I ask that Mr Petr Fiala prepare himself with a factual view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u28	Thank you. Let me just have a quick reaction to the fact that the Prime Minister here was mixing pears with apples and he says he needs money for ProMoPro, and from that title he needs to raise his paychecks at the government office. I would just quote from the material chapter of the Office of the Government. The number of systematic posts has been adjusted to the approved status of 2014, i.e. the corresponding salaries and related expenditure of 48.49 million. Kč. Further increase in salaries and other payments for the work carried out by government decisions of 1,5 %, including related expenditure of 5,7 million in total. - you add to the 49. An increase of 39,050 million. CZK, that makes up wages of CZK 23 million. plus compulsory premiums of 8,1 less than partial equalisation of the average salary to the level of the average salary actually paid for 2013. So the total amount of wage increases at the government's office is about 85 million. CZK from year to year. This doesn't concern any Mopro. And to show, because I have another minute, what is personally pleasant is happening at the Office of the Government, when for example - and I quote from the material the budget of the chapter of the Office of the Government. Changes resulting from the deletion made in 2014: Reduction of 2,8 million. CZK resulting from the transfer of personnel and educational activities in the state administration from the Ministry of the Interior to the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic and back, when the Government Resolution 147 of 5 March 2014 approved the transfer of this agenda from the Ministry of the Interior to the Office of the Government. But the same year... Attention - together with ten employees, this agenda was transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Office of the Government. And the same year in September 2014, the government approved the return of this agenda to the Ministry of the Interior, but no longer with ten officials, but with fifteen. That's where the government officials are born.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u29	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Mr Petr Fiala withdraws his factual decision. I now ask Mr Kalousek, in fact, to prepare Mr Zlatuška. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u30	Thank you. Just a brief response to what Mr Kolovratník and the Prime Minister said. Mr President, we are discussing the State Budget Act, we are not discussing the SFDI. Information about the lowest investments in the state budget is simply true. If you look at how much the state budget will contribute to the transport infrastructure fund, a billion more than last year, i.e. Pretty much the same. Of course, Chairman Fiala is right. Prime Minister, I never thought the former Finance Minister could argue as much as you could argue with the ProMoPro fine. We both know that even if this were to happen, one chapter of the state budget will pay another chapter of the state budget, i.e. money is transferred from one pocket of jacket to another. And there are, the former finance ministers know, if you advise the current one, there are at least four techniques to deal with it so that the operation of the state's organisational units is not compromised. You will undoubtedly use one technique. This means that no budget funds from the Office of the Government will be used for the ProMoPro fine, because it can simply be done in such a case. And the fact remains, what has been said here is that from year to year, you will pay CZK 85 million more on payroll at the Office of the Government and that there will be a lot of officials there. I understand it's before the convention that you have to employ a lot of votes, after all, your colleagues at the social democratic ministries do the same. But I don't see why taxpayers should pay for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u31	Now, please, to Mr Zlatuška's microphone and Mr Laudát will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I know we are debating the budget, but when President Fiala mentioned the former Prime Ministers here and mentioned the Prime Minister's cycle, I would ask you, Madam President, to warn him that two out of the three premieres for the ODS did not have the courage to speak at all in that cycle, and one of those who did not have the courage to do so was also the last Prime Minister for the ODS, Petr Nečas, for whom the current President of the ODS served in the government, although I acknowledge that this is all from his point of view ancient history, because it was not yet in that party. But now that he's talking about it, this might be a good idea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u33	Thank you. I'm just saying that I can't warn my colleague about these things, you can do it through me. You must say that, through Madam President. Now, please, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u34	Thank you. It's just technically what President Kalousek has already said. Please, let's not go to transport, let's go to the budget, because SFDI will be here, and not its own budget, but even the stuff around it, it's a huge story about the resort in complete decay. I would ask very much, because today it is not the subject of this discussion, it will be at the third reading after the approval of the fund's budget, so that we can deal with it afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u35	Thank you, and now please take a moment, for the last time, Prime Minister. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure I will be happy to learn from both Mr Kalousek and Mr Babiš, the Minister of Finance, how the Government Office should resolve this situation. But I am based on the legal situation that is at the moment, and indeed it is true, honourable Members, that we have a prescribed levy, which, in principle, if I take only a net contribution without penalty, reaches most of the budget of the Office of the Government, and together with the penalty, it goes beyond the entire budget of the Office of the Government for next year. So if the contribution is realized, then it will have to be secured somehow by the functioning of the Office of the Government and I assume that the Ministry of Finance will come up with such a proposal. I mentioned this because Mr Fiala here described the pink future of the Office of the Government next year. As salaries increase by 3.5% according to the tables, this is, I think, a thing that is already known, since 1 November of this year, public sector salaries have increased by 3.5%, but the future will not be so rosy simply because the Czech Presidency has been here. Mr Topolánek was Prime Minister at the time, Mr Vondra was responsible for this, both of them were from ODS, sounded the Czech Presidency in a way that was evaluated by the financial office by prescribing a refund to the government office for half a billion crowns. This return has nothing to do with what has happened there in the last ten months, but it has something to do with what took place in 2009 during the Czech Presidency. [[10.50 hours]] And what Mr Bendl said. Mr. Ambassador, we did exactly what your political party wanted. We canceled the General Directorate of State Services, that was a request from the ODS. You made it your responsibility to support the Civil Service Act. At the moment we canceled the General Directorate of State Services, the people who prepared it in accordance with the law at the Office of the Government, so the agenda moved to the Ministry of the Interior because we agreed with your political party that it would be the Deputy Minister at the Ministry of the Interior to cover the civil service. So that we don't have a short memory and remember what was a few months ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u37	Prime Minister, your time. Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Bendl's microphone with a factual remark, then Mr Kalousek and then Mr Petr Fiala. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. Excuse me, Prime Minister, but that doesn't mean the agenda you took over has to increase by 50 percent in six months. Ten people suddenly become fifteen. That's what really happens there, first of all. And secondly, I have to read one more time: The presentation of further changes of a lasting nature shall be entitled the title of the expenditure items to increase salaries at the Office of the Government. And I'm sorry, 3.5 percent doesn't make 85 million crowns. You know that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u39	Thank you, and I now ask Mr Kalousek to take action. Prime Minister, there are a number of facts ahead of you. Please hold. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u40	Prime Minister, one more time. The sanctions were assessed by the Financial Office of the State's organisational component, the Office of the Government of 500 million crowns. This means that you, as Prime Minister, who covers the entire state budget, were sentenced to move 500 million from one pocket to another. Nothing else. In addition to this situation, the tax rules in force and the budgetary rules in force are in force, and this legislation allows you, and you will undoubtedly do so, not to pay a penny from the planned budget for this penalty, and if you do so, you will be compensated by the budgetary measures. If you want advice, yes, I'll give you advice. Use that 85 million increase in salaries at the Office of the Government to pay the fine and reduce the deficit. But you will not follow this advice. You spend $85 million on your constituents at a social democracy convention that you employ at that office. It will be paid by taxpayers, and out of the 500 million crowns that the Office of the Government has measured, de facto your chapter will not pay a crown. We'll talk about it next year at the state closing account. If you think they're gonna pay, then go to the microphone and say, "Yes, we're not gonna use part of the planned budget for 2015 for the fine, and we're not gonna get it compensated by any budgetary measures." You won't say. You just say the first thing, but you don't say you don't actually pay a penny and you spend it all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u41	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Petr Fiala's microphone. The Prime Minister will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u42	Thank you. I really have to show some disappointment. Prime Minister, I can really appreciate your rhetorical dexterity as a leftist politician, but I really can't appreciate your competence as a prime minister defending the state budget here. I have made absolutely specific reservations about specific numbers here. I was talking about where the operating expenditure of individual ministries, where the number of officials is increasing, I was talking about small investments, investments in key areas. All of this is substantiated by the figures you submitted in that state budget. Don't be mad at me. You're not gonna tell me it's not gonna go to wages if the money goes to wages. You cannot play with something that is put on paper and that you or the Minister of Finance have put your government here in the Chamber of Deputies. I really beg you, all the members of the government, to start dealing with our factual arguments, to answer our questions so that you don't draw attention to any cases and other things here. Operating expenditure is simply increasing, the number of officials is increasing, the resources for civil servants' salaries are increasing, they are not invested, they are lower investment in science, they are lower investment in infrastructure. Those are just the facts that come from the budget that you presented here. So let's talk about the facts and not talk about any past and cases that don't concern us. And to answer my reservation that there are increases in salaries and the number of officials at the Office of the Government by paying the money if I lose the ProMoPro trial, you must know for yourself that there is no relevant answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u43	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Now please get to the Prime Minister's microphone. Prime Minister, your de facto. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u44	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I am pleased that it has been made clear here that the Office of the Government has a prescribed contribution for the ProMoPro case, that it is CZK half a billion and that we will have to deal with this. It's just not a trivial thing, and I don't want to downplay it, I don't want to downplay it. And please take this as information beyond what is in the State Budget Act, because it will affect the administration's management next year. With regard to the issue of salaries, salaries will rise by 3,5 percent. A tariff table. Rewards will be limited under the Civil Service Act 25 per cent of the year. I do not want to remind Mr Poul, who has been in the administration of the Office of the Government and who, according to public information, has been rewarded in the range of 800 to 900 thousand a year. Nothing like this will happen again at the Office of the Government. As regards the increase in the number of employees, I must say that it has nothing to do with social democracy and the convention. As a government, we have decided to establish the position of Deputy Prime Minister for Science, Research and Innovation. The Deputy Prime Minister came to the Office of the Government, he had no section created to support him in this capacity. And this year and the next year, it takes place within the Office of the Government, so it is part of this budget chapter, creating and fulfilling the section of the Deputy Prime Minister for Science, Research and Innovation. This is KDU-ČSL Chairman, Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Therefore, this cannot be related to any convention of social democracy. This is the gross increase in the number of employees at the Office of the Government, it is the gross increase in wage resources, and the rest of the increase in wage resources is due to what happens everywhere - rising wages in the public sector. They didn't increase for you, our government increases the salaries of public sector employees. That's reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u45	Now, please, Mr Bendl, Mr Kalousek, and then Mr Petr Fiala, will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u46	Prime Minister, I must disappoint you. You either haven't read the budget chapter of the Office of the Government, or you've read it wrong, or you're misinterpreting it. Yes, there is an increase in the number of employees at the Office of the Government, and wages are rising accordingly. Yes, at the Office of the Government, 3.5 percent is added to salary. But be careful, too, at the Office of the Government, and that's the third issue, that's the wage increase of about CZK 31 million per year, and then it's probably going to stay the same, then we're going to valorize it in accordance with the law every year, just as wages are valued. And it says here: The chapter increases by CZK 31,05 million, of which 23 and 8 million are compulsory insurance and FKSP, partial equalisation of the average salary to the level of the average salary actually paid for 2013. So no 3.5%. And telling people through a microphone here, that's perfectly normal, that's 3.5 percent. No way! These are completely different amounts that take place, quite non-standard, at the Office of the Government. And then I'm gonna use the 37 seconds I have. Speaking of the budget of the chapter of the Office of the Government, individual professional institutions, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Interior and so on, the expenditure on research and innovation is reduced and the chapter of the budget is increasing by CZK 100 million at the Office of the Government for research and innovation. What are they going to do and how do you want to divide them, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u47	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Kalousek's microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u48	Thank you. I want to thank the Prime Minister for the partly sincere answer that was: although we are reducing, quite significantly, by billions, the funds for science and research, we are increasing spending on the administration of the distribution of science and research resources. That's an honest answer, consistent with this government's policy. Science and research in the Czech Republic will certainly go wild. However, it was only a partial answer, because in addition to this increase in researchers who will bite on the administration, there will still be the 31 million you can't justify, because that simply makes it easier for the Office of the Government. Here's what I'd like to say to the public. In addition to increasing the numbers, we are valorizing them by 3.5 percent, so we are making them even better with some extra 31 million crowns, which I will distribute there. And, Prime Minister, with all due respect, the fact that employment at social democratic offices, including yours, has no connection to the convention, we trust you as sincerely and 100% as your claim that you had no idea of the offer made by Vice-President Sklenák and the agreement he made with the other club presidents. We believe the same thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u49	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Petr Fiala's microphone. Please have Mr Laudát prepare himself. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u50	Prime Minister, your explanation of the increase in the number of officials at the Office of the Government by establishing a position as Vice Prime Minister for Research, which is why there is a need to create a background, really is not right. I would like to draw your attention if you do not know that there is traditionally a research and development department at the Office of the Government, which has a number of employees, and that this department was able to create a background for the Vice Prime Minister for research in the time of social democratic governments, which was needed by Martin Jahn. This department has not only a director, but has recently also had a headmaster, which de facto can be replaced, or this is the place that the Deputy Vice Prime Minister now has for research. So I really don't know why there would have to be so many jobs to manage research and what it would do. Officials who understand research are traditionally at the Office of the Government, the department is sufficient, worked as well in the past, when there was a vice prime minister, or there was no vice-premier, providing background for the Research, Development and Innovation Council, which actually recommends to the government how to conduct research in the Czech Republic. So I really don't understand what those officials would be doing, what they would be doing, and what is so new, that there is a need for additional officials to be added for research, especially when we have no new concept of research policy, which, of course, this country needs for the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u51	Thank you and I will now ask Mr Laudát's microphone, Mr Kalousek will prepare himself, both with factual remarks. Mr. Kalousek, you've been given priority, please, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u52	I've been given priority, thank you. It is a factual response to President Fiala's speech. I'm happy to explain to him why it has to be. In order to improve the situation in the research and innovation environment, less money is needed for science and research than it was in times of crisis, and there is a need to increase spending on officials who decide. This is the exact policy of the government that reflects in its budgetary priorities the proposed state budget. And of course the union can't be enough, that must be the section. And it can't just be the headmaster, it's got to be the deputy director, it's got to be the headmaster, it's got to be the headmaster, it's got to be the head of the department. It's gonna be a mystery! You, as a college professor, should understand that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u53	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u54	Thank you. This is where we're arguing about the úřad of the Government. We have had a debate on the petition committee in defending this Chapter 304. It is probably the only institution with regard to not two ministries, that is, health and industry and trade, it has not been recommended the budget, it has not passed. And we also asked where the Whitebread Ministry was. We were told that this is science, research and innovation 139 701 000. When we asked what was in it, folks, we were told by the economist and the representative of the Office of the Government that 100 million of it would go to the audits of science centers, what to do with them. I don't know what they're going to audit there when it's mostly built out of European money, and if we cancel, we're going to pay back, and maybe it's going to make us a fine. So that's how we were told, because we didn't get the details. And, of course, I'm a very genius kicking the Prime Minister for Science, Research, Innovation, but in my performance here, I'm going to prove the gigantic chaos in this matter and the decline is generated by this government. But that's gonna be a different speech. So please, the 139 701,000 and 100 million of them are going to be audited. If I'm wrong - but that's what all the participants in the meeting heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u55	Thank you and please now with the priority right of Mr Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking the Prime Minister, who no longer reported, as he told me to give room for further discussion, so I finally got to the floor. As far as my performance is concerned, we have already said a specific complaint during the first reading of the Dawn movement, so I would focus more on the principled things today or take it in a slightly different way. Of course, we have already talked here about what kind of budget the government could put forward, that it could, of course, either be balanced or at least with a smaller deficit, especially when the economy is growing and has growth next year. And the growth, as we know, and I would point out here, because we don't understand each other here with some government officials, so it's not because of this government, because the economy doesn't grow because of this government. The economy is growing this year, and the government has taken power some spring, and as all economists say, and even at least the economy knows it by kissing fellow citizens, so the growth of the economy this year has no bearing on virtually most of the government's activities at all. So I think we should start at the very beginning. And we should also stress that when the economy is growing, so in the textbook, maybe even in the first hour of the first class of the economy, it is clearly written, and it is clear that this is the time when debt should be bailed out, because the sineoid will be reversed again, and when the economy will fall, unfortunately, the money will not be used to bail out debts. This is precisely the mistake she made in the past of social democracy under the reign of contemporary Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, and actually these errors, unfortunately in a negative sense, are still being paid by the Czech Republic today. And we can argue against the claim here, but who has studied economics, who is kissed by economics, so what I'm saying is absolutely clear, incontrovertible, and who says otherwise, I dare say that he would have been thrown out of his exam at economic schools. I know from home because my partner is studying two colleges of the University of Economics at once and she's in the fifth grade. So whoever here wants to say otherwise, I'd like to hear where it came from. [[11.10 hours]] Of course, I would suggest another topic for discussion, which some economists have already indicated before me - for example. Clear the budget, better defend it, explain its individual items. Discussion over individual items, when I looked at it in more detail, can be very surprising and can bring really interesting findings. I would now recall the resolution of the Economic Committee, which the Committee did not approve of one of the Ministry of Industry's items. And I'll be specific. The government expects increased revenues from brown coal given by the amendment to the Mining Act consisting of a change in the structure of the so-called the remuneration from the extracted minerals of brown coal. Today, these revenues are divided in proportion to 75 per cent for municipalities and 25 per cent for the state. However, this is to change in proportion to one third for the municipalities and two third for the state. The revenue from this change is expected - the world, wonder! - already in the 2015 budget. It's all an example of an exemplary sklendrian. The amendment to the Mining Act has not yet passed the House, so far it is only in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and has not been approved by the government, let alone heard of by Parliament. However, these matters are actually envisaged in the new budget. Moreover, as the mayors headed by our Member, Mr David Kádner, Member of the Dawn, pointed out last week, the planned change means the detonation of municipalities affected by mining. The damage will remain to the municipalities and the state will receive the profit. And I do not think that such a proposal will ever pass in this form, because it will not be allowed by the mayors and citizens of the affected regions, regardless of whether they are from any side. However, this revenue is expected in the budget. So that's an example of how the budget is drawn up, I'd say, at least oddly. And once again, I stress that we have a huge deficit here, a huge further debt of the Czech Republic, while I have already talked about fundamental economic principles here at the outset. Therefore, if we are talking about income and spending and want to oppose and seek the highest efficiency in a qualified manner, I think it is necessary to make the budgets of all departments and of all institutions paid by them more transparent in the future. We pay a lot of things that are unnecessary, or we'd have them cheaper. And once again, I am going to take a specific example from the proposed budget. The problem is that it is not in the power of individuals and apparently neither the Ministry of Finance, which please take this point in fact, to decipher tens of thousands of items. So that we should be heading, and that is another criticism that I miss in some vision, when we talk about this government's budget, towards this clarification, and so that we can all and even the wider public can decipher it, be interested in it. Because if these items are more visible, there will be a self-cleaning process, which we know from our private activities. So let me give you a specific example. Recently, my colleague, a member of the Dawn Member, Karel Fiedler, visited organisations in charge of subsidies to the civil-government organization. He will still talk about it, it is one of our amendments. Well, this guy, who manages huge subsidies and allocates them specifically to various human rights organizations, admitted without fail that he or his office has no idea where and for what some millions of state cashiers are going, and that he himself doubts their effectiveness. Again, I will leave Karel Fiedler to submit an amendment to you. This will relate specifically to one such organisation, the organisation of the year declared in its area of various human rights matters. Of course, these findings are shocking, and it is evident that there is simply no need for us to make the state more efficient to lower the service of the state in order to prevent a non-systemic waste of money. I'm bohužel so. And there's once again a space to be saved. Which means not only taking money from those who play for charity, but putting it where it will be used effectively. So the amendment tabled by Karel Fiedler, our MP, will consist in returning the money to such an organization, back to another chapter of the budget, because if the administrator of the subsidies doesn't really know how to deal with the subsidies, then what else are we supposed to do as responsible politicians? We're not gonna shut up about it, but I guess it's just the tip of the iceberg! The tip of the iceberg, the tip of the iceberg, that there's basically huge subsidies flowing into this area, for example, and no one cares anymore, no one's actually working with information about what's going on with this public money anymore. Finally, allow me to join those who draw attention to the real need for time savings. I've already indicated that for the introduction. That's when we're doing well. I consider this to be a fundamental weakness in the budget. The current recovery of the European economy is fragile. Even the greatest optimists expect to be on the spot for next year's best case. The recession is also feared by the world's economic institutions. For example, the International Monetary Fund, in its October outlook for the development of the world economy, that is, the current one, estimated the risk of a recession returning to Europe at a considerable 40 percent. Furthermore, in order to give concrete examples not to say that Okamura is sucking something out of her finger, so the current figures of the European Statistical Office on the debt of European countries show that the debt of the euro area states and the entire European 28 has reached new records in this year's first half. Almost 90, or respectively. 87 per cent of gross domestic product. In short, this means that the European Union countries have been able to owe another half of their debts over the last five years! Germany and France had debt at 60 per cent of GDP before the crisis, today they are 90 per cent. Of course, I'll get to why I'm saying this right away. Of course, sanctions against Russia have made the European economy even worse, and it is naive to think that when exports to Russia are few percent, the consequences will also be few percent. This math, of course, doesn't apply. In part, exports concern agriculture, for example, and this is a very sensitive area. We need to look at the individual structure of the problems. While we can export sewing machines elsewhere or postpone sales, agricultural products cannot currently be sold or stored for a long time. And what does that mean? Nothing but an even greater risk and an even greater crisis. The budget of a wise caretaker simply has to be able to count on it, and I can't see that at this very budget. We have repeatedly called on the Government to present some budgetary vision, to present a proposal for discussion, to see how the economy of the Czech Republic will be prepared for the next years, and unfortunately, this debate is still not going on. Of course, in Dawn, we agree to raise pensions, reduce medicines, raise salaries for firefighters or paramedics or a higher deductible item for children or birthers. For all this we raised our hand in Dawn and of course we have it in the program and we agreed to it, these are good steps. But that's not all that can do for a proper caretaker! That's not enough, we have to look at the second page, which is not negligible in the budget. So what I miss about this government and the draft budget is briefly a long-term vision towards a balanced budget. I miss the announced savings plan in the administration of the state, not the citizens. All this has been announced, and it's not discussed in a year's time, we're not familiar with it. I've done researches and economics and so on, I've read a lot of material from renowned economists, but it's just not here. But we've heard it on election posters, we've heard it in programs, we've heard that it's going to be announced, but the announced savings plan in the administration of the state - that's not talking about tax collection, that's all right, we agree, and I think Minister Babiš is doing a good job here, and I'm saying that, frankly, and I'm not going to politicize, and he's trying, in any case. So I just want to say that the announced savings plan in the administration of the state and the vision, the vision of savings in the medium term or in the short, five years ahead, how to get to the balanced budget, where to cut back, where to add, we just don't see it here. We see a very short-term budget here, and it simply cannot be a vision for the Czech Republic for future years, especially if, for example, I just point it out, I will turn away, I will not discuss it, if, for example, the pension reform, which is now constantly being discussed by the pension committee, needs to be with a vision of tens of years in advance. So, of course, it would be appropriate for at least some framework to be here for a longer period of time. So we still see only a very deficit budget from the government, which continues to indebt the Czech Republic. Just without any long-term perspective on how to straighten the budget. And I said straighten it out! Straighten up means getting to a balanced budget. That should be the objective of a proper economy. The budget presented is therefore both positive and negative from our point of view and, unfortunately, it is also very important, as I explained. Of course, the Dawn movement will submit its amendments, one of which I have already named here, although I do not hope that these proposals will pass through the government majority. At this point in time, the Dawn movement cannot support this budget for the above fundamental reasons. Although, as I said, it has many positive pages, but those are also essential to us and simply are not discussed. There was not even a minimal discussion that might be enough for us to begin with in Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u57	Now, please, to the microphone of the rapporteur on this point, Mr Votava. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would first of all like to sign up for the amendment that I have put into the system. However, I will not forgive one comment. He is not the current President of the Civil Democratic Party. He always likes to grind into the past. There's Mr. current Prime Minister Sobotka here, the Sobotka, when he was Minister of Finance... Social democracy when she was in government... I think he's suffering from memory loss. He doesn't remember the 1990s, he doesn't remember when the governments of social democracy had to take on what kind of marasmus they had to deal with here after the governments of Klaus. And I think Klaus was ODS, even though he's not today. Bank socialism. How much was stolen from the banks? The governments of social democracy must have bailed out all this. So, folks, if you want to piss somebody off, you might want to relive your memory a little bit, too. I would like to sign up for House document number 1697, which I submitted to the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u59	I thank the rapporteur for his speech in a detailed debate. And first of all, allow me to apologize to Minister Milan Chovanec, who has been apologizing since 14:00. Now, with our performance with priority rights, Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová, and then we will continue on the agenda, namely Mr Beznoska first. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u60	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to take this path to the House document number 1710. It is an amendment to the Act on the State Budget for 2015. I am talking about increasing the expenditure of Chapter 334, which is the Ministry of Culture, by CZK 300 million for the State Cinema Fund in support of film incentives. Furthermore, I propose a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 398, which is the General Treasury, from the specific cost indicator, the transfer appropriations to the public budgets of the central level, by 300 million. This proposal was discussed by the Cultural Committee which adopted it. Unfortunately, thanks to the administrative error, the Committee did not deal with this proposal; it declared it unvoting. So I took him in, and I think he deserves to go through the House vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u61	Thank you, Madam Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová. Now in the debate, Mr Adolf Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I will remind you very briefly because I had a rather long first reading performance, why I cannot support this budget, and then I would focus on Chapter 313 of the MPSV. I have a number of questions, but since the Minister is not here, I believe that the Minister or the Prime Minister will be able to answer me. The draft budget for 2015 is not well. Maybe I'd follow up on President Okamura. He mentioned that growth in the European or world context was relatively fragile. Unlike him, I'll use Czech numbers. The Czech National Bank reduced its growth estimate by 0.4 percentage points in the last quarter. It may be a signal that she too is beginning to fear the things that are happening outside the Czech economy. Well, it's just a little bit of a catch-up. Otherwise, our draft budget - what's wrong there? It increases the structural deficit to 1.8 percent of GDP. This is a rather dramatic change, because the government is actually deciding on the structural deficit. And in the context of previous sentences, it's very wrong. Let me just remind you that in the last year of the government, with the participation of the Civil Democratic Party, the structural deficit was less than 0.3 percent. In 2015, the government wants to select 19 billion from its citizens. CZK more than this year. 19 billion. Kč. And it's not the money we collect, and then certain groups will be redistributed. Although the state budget deficit is planned at a rate of 100 billion, that means about 19 billion. CZK higher than in this year, so it is not taken into account that we are working with this high deficit. And, on the other hand, let's build roughly 2,5 percent growth in gross domestic product. So at a time when it should be saved, virtually. Structural measures should be taken to prepare for further economic growth, so we are simply eating through the money. Very often, criticism from the Czech Social Democratic Party in particular was expressed that VAT increased by 1 percentage point during the Government of the Civil Democratic Party. There have been many explanations here, including the second pillar of pension reform. Yet this government intends to collect 10 billion on value added tax next year. more, really it can get to the limit of 30 billion. Mandator spending, the thing that weighs on us all, will reach its record level. Mandator spending will rise to 713 billion. CZK, which is 42 billion. CZK more than the previous government. I will remind you that they are coming to their historically highest level and account for 58.5 percent of all expenditure. Own-activity expenditure, this is an investigation of such at home, of the government's own activities, of 20.5% of the total current expenditure, of 81 billion. Kč. Compared to the previous year, further growth by 15,6 percent. Compared to the last year, with the participation of the Government of the Civil Democratic Party, investment was 102 billion. Kč. At that time, and I'm sure you remember that well, they were unionists on the streets of Prague. They protested that the government is suffocating the Czech economy with its low investment. For next year's draft budget, you will find 75,6 billion. Kč. So it's not for an investment, a growth budget. And one of the growth factors, and that's what we've been talking about repeatedly, is investment in science, research, innovation. Even here, there's a drop from 40 billion. last year. This expenditure for next year is planned to amount to 35 billion. So these are the factual reasons why I think that budget is neither economical nor pro-growth. On the contrary, it is a thrilling, wasteful budget, which, as if counting on the fragile economic growth to continue indefinitely. And now for my questions. I believe someone will be able to answer me. They concern the chapters of the MPSV. First of all, the information, chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is planning a deficit of 136 billion, which is a larger deficit than the planned general deficit of the state budget. 95 per cent of the expenditure of this chapter, and that is natural, is mandatorial. And I have some questions. I'd like to know exactly how much pension valorization is going to cost. I don't have a problem with her. On the contrary. I think that in the transitional measure, when pensions were slightly frozen, it is correct, I support an increase of CZK 208. But I'll put one piece of information against that for you. Next year's pensions will still fall by 0.8 percent. So how much is this valorization going to cost us exactly? And what counts for the next few years to prevent a real drop? As regards welfare benefits, the comments of this chapter stated that 2,700 foster parents are increasing. This was significantly reflected in the amount of foster care. And I'm asking how this is going to turn out in reducing the number of children in children's homes and other institutions, if anybody's put these numbers in context. The third thing I'd like to ask is why they're increasing by 200 miles. the benefits of aid in material distress, when the labour market situation, which responds to improved economic situation, has improved significantly, and from last year's 635 thousand unemployed we have 520,000 by October this year? So a relatively significant and positive decline in the number of unemployed in absolute terms. Yet, we are increasing the benefits of help in material distress. I'd like an explanation. [[11.30 hours]] It just dropped dramatically by 18,000. the number of disabled persons. I don't know if our disabled are miraculously healing, or if there's anything going on in the review service, virtually. for her work. Yet the contribution to people with disabilities is growing - slightly, by about 20 million, but it is growing. This number doesn't have logic again. Unemployment benefits are increased by 300 million. Kroner, however the number of unemployed I was commenting on a moment ago. So these are the things I need someone to come and explain to me. The second-to-last issue is active employment policy. There are planned expenses of 6,7 billion. CZK 2.1 billion. from own resources, others are linked to European Union programmes. 3.6 billion. of which it is for prefinancing the project and 0.9 billion. for co-financing. And because - Kalousek spoke about this yesterday - we are not yet able to reach out to the operas and it seems that the first challenges that we will be able to take advantage of in this issue, particularly the OP Human Resources Development and Employment, are certainly not enough to implement all the projects that are ready, so I am interested in what programmes are prepared in these European subsidy programmes, what will be done and what programmes are ready for the unemployed, who are long-term unemployed and who are more than 300 000. So I would need to see if there are any programs specifically prepared for this group of unemployed people. And the last thing is, is the assumption that all these planned projects will be implemented in 2015. And one last thing. We've been talking for a long time about whether the funding of social services should be transferred to the outskirts. The debate was long, and it finally came through, didn't it? And I'm asking if the financing of social services in the regions is at risk, because the amount for this funding is falling by 250 million for next year. Kč. Do not be fooled by the budget number, because this increase is only optical, because it is related to the increase in wages. So I wonder if anyone could answer that question for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u63	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Mr Sklenák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, and colleagues, I am signing up for an amendment which is conducted in the system under number 1746 concerning the financing of social work. Today, the situation is that social work in municipalities is financed from the contributions received by municipalities for the performance of the state administration in a delegated capacity and therefore there is no specific amount for social work and the State does not have the possibility to influence the financing of this necessary activity. Thus, in some municipalities social work is to a sufficient extent, in some it is inadequate and in some it is practically not performed at all. When we were here in the House discussing an amendment to the Social Services Act, I tabled an amendment that was adopted, was adopted by the Senate, then the standard was approved. With this amendment, we have created a subsidy title from which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs could specifically provide subsidies to finance social work in municipalities. Thus, the subsidy title was established and now, when discussing the state budget, it needs to be filled with some funds so that it can actually function. Therefore, I propose from the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the benefits of aid in material distress and the benefits of state social support, to transfer 250 million. just to finance this social work. The logic is undoubtedly in this move, because if the funds are used for real social work where needed, the payment of benefits, especially in material distress, will certainly be reduced. So much for my proposal, and I'd like to ask you for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u65	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Vilímec's microphone. Mr. Zahradník will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u66	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to discuss the basic indicators of the state budget very much at second reading. This was the topic of the first reading, in which I also performed. But if I were looking for a story of this draft state budget submitted by the government, I would have three comments. It is a story of the budget which increases the operating expenditure of the organisational units of the state. It is the story of the budget, which reduces capital expenditure, reduces investment. And it is a story of the budget, which, despite assuming a 2% growth in the economy, proposes a relatively monstrous budget deficit of 100 billion. Crowns. For these reasons, I cannot support such a budget. And while I agree with President Fiala, our chairman, the 100 billion. it is too much that there is some kind of cotton wool, that it will turn out to be a wasteful government policy so that, in the end, the deficit will be lower and the Minister of Finance will link it to a successful fight against tax evasion. However, this debate is, in my view, a matter of first reading, and I therefore want to address, like Mr Beznoska, as a member of the Committee on Social Policy, a chapter which is actually the largest from the point of view of state budget spending, a chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But I would also like to respond to President Votava's remark, which he also mentioned here about how the budget for Klausův' governments was in the marasm, or what kind of marasm the management of Klausův' governments was in, and how everything had to be corrected by the government of social democracy and those governments where social democracy was involved. And maybe I could revive the memory of all of us, the memory of 2006, when the current Prime Minister, the then Minister of Finance, actually made it possible, even if he didn't quite vote for it, to increase the mandatorial spending by 76 billion from year to year. Take a look at the 2006 budget and refresh your memory in this regard. The finance minister back then may not have supported it, but he didn't hold a hunger strike so that such a massive increase couldn't occur because it was a big saying for the state budget. [[with a smile]] But now for that chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I am really sorry that the Minister is not here, because on the Committee on Social Policy with the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs they were making excuses for the evil Ministry of Finance because they demanded a lot more money for the social services and that the Ministry of Finance was against it. It's a shame he's not here, because it's really a chapter where there's 95 percent of the mandatorial expenditure, but it's a chapter that contains 534 billion. CZK in expenses. [[11.40 hours]] Mandatoric spending in this chapter also increases, although not quite sharply, only by 9.5 billion, one third of which concerns the pensions that Mr Beznoska also mentioned. As we well know, we finally approved it, from January next year, the valuation scheme for pensions valid before austerity was implemented, which is still in force in 2012, and even supplemented by the determination of the lowest possible increase, which, according to the explanatory memorandum, should significantly improve the purchasing power of the pensioner. The reason report states, and yesterday the Prime Minister bragged about this in the debate on the salaries of state officials that an average old-age pension of CZK 207 would be increased to CZK 11 297. This is all the more surprising, and Mr Beznoska mentioned it here, and it is also written directly in the chapter, another communication which unfortunately does not mention much in the political speeches of representatives of the coalition. Compared to this year, the real value of the average old-age pension paid in 2015 will be reduced by 0.8% and, of course, the average old-age pension will also be reduced by half a percentage point. And in recent days, we have learned from the public opinion research carried out by STEM regarding the assessment of the amount of old-age pensions that this year's STEM survey showed the lowest proportion of responses that pensions are adequate and that it is sufficient to cover the needs of pensioners across the STEM time series since 1998. According to this survey, only 14 percent of respondents believe that pensions are adequate and 24 percent of respondents believe that the average old-age pension is sufficient to cover the basic needs of pensioners. I am saying this here because the government and, above all, social democracy are very fond of boasting and boasting about the recent municipal elections, how they have fulfilled their electoral promises about raising pensions. As you can see, this is only a virtual perception. The opposite is true. On the contrary, the next year will come, I will not use the word all the time, this word was used by Mr Beznoska, but compared to this year there will be a reduction in the real amount of pensions. It should be added that, when I looked at the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, while the income from pension insurance premiums on the whole according to the draft state budget increases by more than 4%, the expenditure on pension insurance benefits increases in the chapter by only less than 1%. I have another comment on the chapter of social affairs in relation, and Mr Beznoska, although in a slightly different position, has also indicated this to increase the amount for assistance in material distress. We recently approved an amendment to the Government's proposal for a law on aid in material distress. The submission of this amendment was justified by a huge increase in expenditure in relation to, as you well know, the housing supplement. The new system, supplemented by our proposal by Mr Stanjura, has been approved by the relevant municipality for the payment of this benefit. However, we learn from the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as well as from the presentation of the representatives of the Ministry to the Committee that the Ministry does not actually expect any reduction in these expenditures, but only partially slowing down the increase of the beneficiaries of benefits, and therefore the benefits of aid in material distress increase by an additional 252 million in the draft state budget. Crowns. Pretty weird finding out. The last point on the chapter, because the remarks could be many and were the subject of debate on the Committee on Social Policy, is a comment that was also made here - a comment on social services. You know we've been discussing a very complicated proposal that transfers funds to social services from the state budget to the county budget. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs assured not only regional representatives but also Members here that for a period of three years it would hold the amount for social services at the real amount of this year. What's the situation? While transfers under the Social Services Act are made more optically - 7 billion. 850 million, but when we deduct increased expenditures to increase the level of income of employees in social services, which is 750 million, and another 200 million, which have no connection to transfers to the regions, they will fall by 250 to 300 million. Crowns. The claim of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in inquiries, not only of my questions but also of other colleagues, claimed that it required a higher amount - by 250 million that it required 8 billion. CZK after the Ministry of Finance, but failed. That's why it's a shame the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs isn't here. Unfortunately, we do not approve of the draft budget in a partial manner, we approve the draft budget as a whole and the government is responsible for the whole. He has a responsibility, not that or that Ministry, which makes excuses for another Ministry. I must say that there were a lot more questions to the Committee on Social Policy and that many of these questions were asked by representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs who were looking for answers to the committee's meetings. Ladies and gentlemen, since, in fact, only a detailed debate on the state budget is being held at second reading, I would also like to read an amendment in the detailed debate, and not to the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but to Chapter 398 - General Treasury. The proposal will meet the requirements set out by the Minister of Finance and will be sufficiently specified and the transfer will not be at the expense of the government's budgetary reserve, so the proposal will certainly be put to the vote. This proposal also appeared on the Committee on Budgets. As I learned, I could not be present for time reasons, the proposal did not go through the difference of one single vote, so I think it is appropriate that it be presented in the Chamber of Deputies and the House decided on it. The proposal responds to a lack of resources to support and develop the restoration of the material technical base of basic and kindergarten schools in the chapter of the General Treasury. In the chapter of the General Treasury Administration, the grant title is to support the development and renewal of a material technical base in education. However, next year's draft budget primarily envisages the completion of the construction of new capacities in basic education only in the case of Prague's urban districts. Only 195 million are proposed for further undetermined allocation within long-term grant titles projects. CZK, despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance extended the possibility of supporting the so-called sub-programme 298213, i.e. for cities and municipalities affected by residential sub-urbanization throughout the Czech Republic, because the problem is not only in suburban Prague districts, the problem is also in other districts near large cities. [[11.50 hours]] The content of my amendment is therefore an increase in expenditure under the programme funding information system by 100 million. CZK in order to increase the item support for development and reconstruction of the material technical base of regional education and, on the other hand, to reduce the subsidy for export support for the Czech Export Bank by 100 million. Crowns. It's called. the subsidy for the payment of the loss of the export bank from the supported financing provided from the State budget under Law No. 58/1995 Coll. Reasonable report on the amount of the subsidy - there is a proposed amount of 1.54 billion. - states that the estimate of future adjustments, i.e. the coverage of the loss of the Czech Export Bank, is very difficult. Last year, although the adjustments reached an amount exceeding 1 billion. CZK, however, this amount was assessed by the bank itself as an entirely exceptional matter and also by the bank itself estimates the balance of the adjustment appropriations for the following year amounting to 1.2 billion. Crowns. Reduction of the amount from 1.54 billion. CZK 100 million. In my opinion, and the experience of past years, there is no risk to the state budget. On the contrary, this transfer will help to accommodate most of the requests made by cities and municipalities to support the development and renewal of primary schools. The worst thing is when you write a grant title, and then it turns out that little money is earmarked for the grant title. This view is also made by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, at least judging by the meeting of the subcommittee on the financing of local authorities, which I participated in as its member. Therefore, I would also ask you, the Minister of Finance, not only the honourable House, to support this proposal, because it is reasonable, it is rational and will help to meet at least a reasonable part of the requests made by cities and municipalities to support the subsidy title which the Ministry of Finance itself has declared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u67	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone... Excuse me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u68	I forgot. Since the proposal is in the system, I forgot to sign up for this proposal, which is set out in the system as House document 1719.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u69	Yes, thank you for fixing it. And now, please, to Mr Zahradník's microphone, Mr Karamazov will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u70	Madam President, my dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. In my contribution, I would like to comment on the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Environment and on the other two related chapters or items. The budget of the Ministry of Environment chapter looks very economical at first sight. The revenue is reduced to 68,3% compared to 2014, the expenditure limit is falling to 72,6 percent of the reality of 2014. There is no way this is about savings. Capital spending, in my opinion, is falling because even if the programming period of the European programmes starts next year, or it has started this year, and should therefore be in full swing by the next year, it will probably not be in full run since the programmes, as the chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek club mentioned yesterday, are not ready. On the contrary, operating expenditure is increasing by 186 million, i.e. to 106,4 % of 2014, and the capital expenditure that I mentioned is falling to 62,9 percent. As far as operating expenses are concerned, there is also an increase in the number of employees of the Office of the Ministry of the Environment by 21 from 558 to 579 and an increase in their salaries by 20.1 million. Kč. I was talking about capital spending and their possible connection to the lack of readiness for the upcoming programming period. What I think is difficult to understand is - and I have already mentioned it here in my previous speech at first reading and at committee meetings - that the resort will not even calculate the funds for the 2014-2020 programming period. When we look at the table on how individual resorts approach this problem, we find that some departments budget the costs of the end of the programming period and what will happen. In this case, the environment is one of those resorts where nothing is budgeted for it. Does this mean that the preparation of the Environment Operational Programme will be financed from any other source or from any funds saved from 2014? How does the resort intend to deal with financing challenges that have a smaller scope that may already come in this coming year, such as boiler replacement or building insulation programs? These are relatively small projects which, however, can be very useful for citizens and whose implementation is not so demanding. The same problem will arise if, after all, the government completes, for example, negotiations on the Environment Operational Programme and there is a need to spend money on co-financing. These funds should also be financed in the budget if they are to be spent on a regular basis. Finally, if there really were to be an announcement of the challenges and their implementation, how will the costs of their administration be financed? I think that in the case of a programme as important as the Environment Operational Programme, it is not possible to say as the Deputy Minister of Finance, Ing, replied. Gregor, at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, that somehow it will be resolved simply that the means are that there are 6 billion in the accounts of the State Environmental Fund. Crowns. As I said before, it concerns other resorts. Another unsolved problem of the Ministry of the Environment is the requirement to increase the expenditure of the chapter on expenditure related to income for emission allowances. This is so, and it is quite understandable in budgetary financing that no expenditure must be released until income has been received for it in the budget, which in the case of emission allowances means that we do not have it in the budget in advance, they will only be coming within the auctions during the year. Here, too, this calls for some systemic change so that, for example, the green savings programme, which is precisely from the revenue for emission allowances, from their auctions, can be financed. It is also an unsolved problem of the lack of resources to cover legal claims that have been raised, in particular regarding legal claims that have been raised in relation to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency from the Forests of the Czech Republic. They're so-called. compensation for the damage caused by the LČR, when the State initially did not want to deal with this claim, because it did not seem that the transfer of money from one pocket of the state to another would be a problem, but the Nature and Landscape Protection Agency started losing legal disputes in these matters with the organization Forests of the Czech Republic and it will be necessary to pay the money back. I think that this problem is not addressed in the draft budget. [[12.00 hours]] With regard to the contribution and budgetary organisations set up by the Ministry, there is an interesting phenomenon here, which is that many of these organisations are experiencing an increase in the contribution or, where appropriate, an increase in expenditure within the budget, which exceeds the salary increases announced for the staff of these organisations. For example, there is an increase of 12 million in the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency, of which 6 million in salaries. Czech environmental inspection increases by 12 million, from this to 3 million salaries. The Czech Switzerland National Park, which is an organizational part of the state, increases by 14 million. CZK, from that to 0.7. ČHMÚ, Czech Hydrometeorological Institute, increases by 38 million, of which to salaries 16. Here it has been answered to the committee that this is a means of improving the service, which we all currently welcome and require that the weather service function perfectly. In the case of National Parks Šumava, Krkonoše National Park and National Park It will, there's an increase of 4 miles. CZK in the first two cases and 0.7 million. CZK in the case of Podyjí National Park. It's dedicated only to salaries. Once again, there's disproportion. Where will the money go, the difference between increasing and using on salaries? What will be realized in these organisations in order to increase contributions to such amounts? There's one more thing I'd like to point out. The point is that our department's budget increases contributions to non-governmental non-profit organisations. They're growing 10 miles. CZK - from 10 to 20. Mostly, or for the most part, these are projects for education and education. Here we need to ask ourselves, what is the point, whether these organisations are to substitute education, which, in principle, belongs to the competence of the school system. And here we have to ask ourselves, in truth, isn't this money ultimately for the further spread of green environmental ideology? I think that it would be far more effective to spend these resources on projects that actually improve the environment. However, this is probably not what the draft budget intends. The Ministry of Finance did not accept a request to increase funds for financing measures under the Landscape Care Programme. That was a 50-mile increase again. Kč. He hasn't been heard. We have 76 million in the budget. Kč. Landscape care programme is a unique programme with an 18-year tradition that supports the implementation of specific care for nature and landscape and ensures the fulfilment of specific needs of a smaller extent within specially protected areas, the financing of measures resulting from the care plan for these territories, and also enables the implementation and financing of measures in the open landscape - mowing of meadows, support of rescue stations for animals, and possibly support to municipalities for planting insulation greenery in their settlement territories. I'd like to propose a 50-mile increase in this item. For this reason, I propose an amendment, where I propose in Chapter 315 - Ministry of the Environment for 2015, expenditure block 2.1 Nature and landscape protection, spending heading 2.1.1 Improving the state of nature and landscape - increase in heading 2.1.1 Landscape care programme by 50 million. CZK, and the reduction in chapter 398 - General Treasury by 50 million. Kč. Actually, I've already said the reasons here. At the same time, given that this is a detailed debate, I am signing up for the amendment that was introduced into the system under number 1714. Another expenditure budget is the Mining Authority. I'd take the liberty of not expressing myself here. It is not very complicated material, and I even supported the draft budget of the Mining Authority at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. What I would like to do next is part of the budget relating to the State Environmental Fund. This budget does not show any too significant deviations from previous years. It must be noted, however, that you all must have noticed that the proposed budget of the State Environmental Fund is much more devoted to income than expenditure. In fact, 80 per cent of the material in terms of the number of characters belongs to the analysis of income and the rest, therefore, to expenditure. The revenue indicates in the time series, accompanied by graphs. There is even a year-on-year comparison of expenditure. No wonder, in the end, I would like to say, because in terms of income, the situation of the State Environmental Fund is very difficult. These revenues are constantly falling. For example, revenues from waste water charges are falling by 130 miles. CZK, fees for the quantity of water collected by 100 million. CZK, the charges in the air folder are down 200 miles. Kč. The fees in the waste folder go down 50 miles. Kč. Revenue from car wreck fees by even 450 miles. Kč. This is always a comparison with 2006, or in the case of car wrecks, a comparison with 2009. The proposal mentions that this unfortunate situation should be resolved by means of legislative changes that should be made here by us on a proposal from the Ministry or, more precisely, by the government. However, there are three fundamental arguments to be made here. First, the situation probably shows that public spending spent on improving the environment is evidently fulfilled, is successfully fulfilled, and that the environment is improving, thus reducing the fee obligation for its deterioration. Secondly, neither the House nor the Ministry are here to make legislative changes to the income of one isolated fund. Finally, by increasing fees, there would be an increase in the costs of the private sector, thereby reducing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. What is being offered is to ask myself a question, and I would not dare to ask for an answer to it, but I think the question must be asked: does it therefore have the authority for the State Environmental Fund to continue to exist. As far as the Fund's budget is concerned, I am returning again to the fact that there are clearly no appropriations to finance the Environment Operational Programme in 2015. But I already mentioned that in detail when I was talking about the department budget. At the end of my speech, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Environment a question. This question concerns the upcoming environmental operational programme, which states in its sixth version - here I have to look at it - within the specific objective of reducing environmental risk and developing their management system... [[Searches in the background]] [[12.10 hours]] This is a specific objective 5, which lists projects for the reconstruction of hazardous chemicals production equipment among the supported projects. Reconstruction of cooling equipment - change of coolant, reduction of liquid ammonia, replacement of cooling equipment, modernization of distributions. Fireproofing of LPG storage tanks. Developing safe extraction of raw material input products. Reconstruction of storage tanks including implementation of emergency tanks. Reconstruction of flammable liquid warehouses. Reconstruction of storage tanks of liquid hydrocarbons, reconstruction of warehouses of liquid industrial fertilisers, construction of security of warehouses of agrochemicals. And about five more. Types of beneficiaries of the following contributions: legal persons, regions, municipalities, voluntary associations of municipalities, contribution organisations, state enterprises, associations - still good - organisational units of the state, business entities. I must therefore ask myself the question which I am referring to the Minister of Finance or the environment as to whether there is no conflict of interest. Whether the Minister of Finance is also the owner of Agrofert's agrochemical holding does not indicate another of many conflicts of interest. When we spoke here at the beginning of today's negotiations on the great problem of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice and Vlachovice, the Prime Minister appealed strongly to the responsibility of private entrepreneurs in these warehouses. I wonder if storage chemicals, agrochemicals, industrial fertilizers liquid, solid, I don't know what flammable liquids, these owners, entrepreneurs, should have their responsibility and take care of their safety from their operational or investment sources. That is the final question asked. As my colleagues have mentioned, I would, of course, be pleased if you would support the amendment tabled, otherwise, of course, my position on the draft budget is reserved and, of course, we will not support it as opposition Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u71	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Jan Zahradník, for a good afternoon, and we will continue the debate. Mr Karamazov is here for the debate, and Mrs Anna Putnová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, from the mouth of the representatives of the ruling coalition, we are constantly hearing how the government manages to invest, reduce unnecessary spending, and effectively support economic growth. As a result, a citizen could get the impression that everything is okay and that our country is going in the right direction in the media performances of the Minister of Finance. However, we are already reading in the explanatory report on the draft law on the state budget, and I quote now that the Czech Republic will seriously deviate from the path to roughly balanced management. Where, then, is the truth? Why isn't the government telling citizens the truth in the media, but hiding it in a text that few people expect to read? The answer is simple. Our situation is far from idyllic, and popular media statements are only famous for lubricating honey around the mouth. This also corresponds to the situation in the Ministry of Education, Science and Research I want to talk about. The total expenditure of Chapter 333 for 2015 is planned almost a billion and a half lower than the same plan for this year. In relative terms, this is a continuation of an unpleasant trend where the volume of funds invested in education with respect to GDP is constantly decreasing. Worse still, it's dropping at a rate even faster than the government expected. Last year, the government planned expenditure of 3.1 to GDP for 2015. The current proposal is four hundredths lower. Therefore, in 2016, we can reasonably expect that the amount of education expenditure will not reach 3% of GDP and will probably be far below this threshold in 2017 at a similar trend. Unfortunately, these are numbers that have not been equivalent since the Czech Republic joined the EU. A comparative study published by the OECD last year can serve us somewhat more clearly. It follows that only Italy, Slovakia and Hungary have a smaller share of education expenditure in OECD member countries, and these are certainly not countries to which Czech students would travel for better education. On the contrary. States that are famous for their educational systems, such as: The United States, Denmark or South Korea, invests up to 60% more in this area in relation to GDP than the Czech Republic. That's the difference you want to make somewhere. If, after all, we are to find at least some positives on the budget presented, and believe me, it will take a long time to evaluate the positive planned increase in expenditure on research, development and innovation. However, the Research, Development and Innovation Council, headed by Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, proposed to allocate an amount exceeding 29,4 billion from the State budget for 2014. The government's draft state budget only accounts for 26,9 billion. Kč. Even if this is an increase compared to this year, there are still 2.5 billion missing. CZK until the fulfillment of a realistic and even moderate proposal of the board. Compared to 2013, as we have already heard here, this is a significant decline. I do not know, therefore, whether, despite strong words, and let us admit some effort, the government should not admit that science and research are simply not one of its priorities yet. However, a slight smile over the situation in science and research will disappear completely looking at the planned budget for higher education. State budget expenditure for universities amounting to less than 21.5 billion. According to the draft state budget in 2015, they will represent only 0.51 percent of GDP of the Czech Republic. This year it was 0.54, in 2013 0.56. The downward trend in spending is far from promised support for education and higher education. I remind you that only new technologies and savings in production, on the one hand, or cheap labour, can succeed in the global market. I'm afraid the current government prefers to take the second path. In the next year, therefore, universities should really reach 280 million compared to the declared increase. less, representing a year-on-year decline of 1,3 percent. Where does the government want to save this money? The Ministry declares savings in particular in reducing support for the existing Erasmus international cooperation programme. The program, which allows thousands of students to travel abroad each year to study abroad, is to be limited. I certainly cannot agree with this position. Especially in today's globalised world, when foreign experience is almost necessary, the government's priority should be to promote foreign study stays, not to limit them. Even if this is a relatively small amount, I cannot agree with maintaining subsidies for private universities, especially for accommodation and social scholarships. Why should a student who has voluntarily chosen a more expensive form of study receive a social scholarship from the state? In part, I would understand this if private universities were better than those financed by the state and the State wanted at least some form of support for socially disadvantaged students in the pursuit of better education. However, in a situation where many private universities operate only as self-service for various titles, state subsidies lack any meaning. In addition to the already mentioned problematic points, the Ministry also reiterates its efforts in its report to achieve a lower number of higher education students and therefore lower expenditures in the medium term. There is certainly no argument that we have too many university students in some of the humanistic fields in particular. I mean, students who may one day have a title before or after the name, but they will find it difficult to look for work. But such a commendable intention should not automatically lead to a flat-rate reduction of expenditure for all higher education, but it is necessary to look for mechanisms to ensure better conditions for higher-quality graduates than for those with worse-prepared ones. For example, it is necessary to really support technical universities where graduates are absent. [[12.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we can see, as well as support for science and research, support for education is not a priority for the government. It must be noted that the educated and qualified workforce is the basis for our country's economic growth and prosperity. If there is a constant reduction in expenditure in this area, we can never succeed in international comparison. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u73	I thank Mr Karamaz. And before Mrs Putnová, Mr Radim Holeček made a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes to make a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have used only factually, because I can fit in two minutes. My colleague Karamazov told the universities everything and I would like to say something about promoting science, research and innovation. We all agree that the important prerequisite for increasing competitiveness is the promotion of science, research and innovation so that these are applied to the maximum extent possible in practice. As a university educator, I want the funding of Czech science to be sufficient and that the state be able to finance things that are of good quality and help not only the development of science but also society. I have always been in favour of placing the emphasis on moving funds from immediate consumption to investment in the future, i.e. directing public and, in particular, private funds into education, science, research, innovation and cutting-edge technologies. Directions in the middle of those who have real results. I consider the budget as a whole in the time of post-crisis growth to be a so-called procession. Compared to 2013, when the 40 billion flowed into science, research and innovation, the 2015 draft budget only remembers this chapter with an amount of 35 billion. and the investment as a whole is going to be 25 billion. less. I can't raise my hand for that budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u75	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mrs Anna Putnová will perform. Mrs Jana Černochová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u76	Good noon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The 2015 budget is the fifth in the order that I have the opportunity to discuss and comment on it. This year's proposed budget shows new elements from my perspective, flaws to which I cannot remain silent. I would like to mention, above all, the unrealisticness of the budget presented to us. In a number of chapters, we have had the opportunity to learn that the funding provided by law will be dealt with by budgetary measures. I could serve several examples, but I will stick to my hooves and give an example from regional education, where in Chapter 333 there is a budget of 80 million less for private schools of regional character, that is, basic and secondary. We have received an answer from the committee that this will be dealt with by budgetary measures. It wasn't the first time I've heard such a reminder and such a solution. I think this is a pretty fundamental error in this budget that we should be talking about, because if we approve a bianco check that will gradually change over the course of the year on the basis of the password divide and rule, we are in a situation where the decision of the House's plenary is being taken and dealt with only by budgetary measures. This is not something that even coalition Members should enjoy, because the situation can change. And if this decline becomes a commonly used system solution, it could be a problem that we're dealing with here today. The second thing I would like to mention is investing in science, research and innovation. Much has already been said about this today, and I assume that a number of comments of this type will be made. The government, which has assumed that science and research will be its priority, reduces expenditure in this chapter. When we found out in 2013 that resources were being reduced to science and research, we thought that it was a disaster that we would survive, and this government, which also set up a vice-premiere institute for science and research, would make sure that it was just a temporary change that we could survive during the year. The opposite has become the truth. It should be noted that 2015 will indeed be extremely challenging for research institutions, because we will also have to count on a failure of resources from the European Union. So it's going to be a really hungry year for research institutions. I think that more than the absolute figures account for the ratio of investment in science and research relative to GDP. Just for memory recovery: in 2011 it was 0.98%, in 2012 1,2 %, in 2013 the same ratio, in 2014, the unfortunate year we were to survive was 0.85% and 2015, the year in which we expected a significant boost from Mr. Vice Prime Minister for Science, Research and Innovation, we are getting to 0.83% of GDP. Research institutions will have to compare with this blackout, but it will definitely be a year that will be really hungry and will be reflected in the next few years. For this reason, I have also tabled three amendments which cannot change this situation in any way fundamentally, but can at least help solve the current problem in a specific case. This is a situation in the Technological Agency of the Czech Republic, to which three amendments apply. I note that they are all based on budgetary rules. They are listed in the system under numbers 1742, 1744 and 1743. In the case of document 1742 it is a strengthening of the budget of the Czech Technical Agency at the expense of the Government Budget Reserve and in the case of document 1744 it is a transfer from the Ministry of Industry and Trade of 325 million. The reasoning is as follows. The Government of the Czech Republic has adopted a decision to finance the EPSILON programme launched and supported by the Czech Technical Agency, which shows that the projects of applied research will be financed mainly in the field of energy, transport, new technologies and new materials. Around 700 projects are currently being tendered and the Technological Agency does not have the 500 million to finance these projects. So much for the amendments. And now I would like to focus more on Chapter 333, which is the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Since the summer of this year, we have heard from the Minister of Education that he will strengthen the sports budget by 800 million. We applauded this intention very much because the physical fitness of children and young people is without exaggeration one of the foundations of the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. Athletes are used to counting not only goals, points and seconds, but also money, and if they believed the Minister's promises in this case, they were greatly miscalculated. The sport budget for 2015 does not differ from the 2014 budget or the 2013. Since Minister Chládek did not miss the opportunity not to publicly declare how he would strengthen this item, I think it would be appropriate for him to tell the public that it simply failed, and it would be polite for the athletes to apologize if he failed to adjust the budget as he promised from the summer. [[12.30 hours]] During the year we had the opportunity to witness relatively tragic situations and cases that took place in our schools. We have heard from Minister Chládek that he will focus on reducing psychopathogenic phenomena in Czech schools. Yet it did not happen that a chapter aimed at prevention would be strengthened. Neither the prevention of crime, nor the prevention of drug education, nor the inclusion of the Roma minority, have any of these sub-chapters been strengthened, so I can only say - it was just words, words, words. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see the fact that, within a number of amendments and individual facts to be heard on chapters, the fact that we are getting into a new position in which a number of legally required funds are to take place through budgetary measures and that this year under the leadership of the government, which has given its priority to science, research and innovation, there is a renewed reduction in these resources. This is important information that should be borne in mind and, over the course of the year, also monitor how the views of individual Members on these areas will develop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u77	Thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Karel Rais and then Mrs Jana Černochová, with a proper application in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u78	Thank you, Mr President, hello. I'd like to stop by and see what Mrs. Putnová said about the missing resources of the Technological Agency. I think it may take a little bit of history, which is that two years ago, the Technological Agency was actually invited to organize and announce the EPSILON competition. This competition was announced, as we have heard, there are about 700 projects that are not financially covered today. These funds have been directed to Chapter 322, this is the Ministry of Industry and Trade, specifically 325 million, and I think they should be redirected to that Technological Agency, which means Chapter 377. I think it's an easier way to go than to deal with some government action. So I would like to support what my colleague said in this amendment, which is number 1744, as I have noted. Now it's possible to move funds from one chapter to another, it's not a demand for an increase from the government reserve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u79	I thank Mr Rais for his time. Now, then, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about the chapter notebook of the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic for 2015. I would like to thank Minister Stropnický for sitting here and listening to me. I am very glad that, after years of decline, the economic growth we have felt since the beginning of this year has enabled us to increase the Ministry of Defence's budget, virtually. of our armed forces. The budget is increasing in absolute terms, which is very good. However, I would like to make a comment on the edge, which can be such a hell of a kick of government-linked growth. If we evaluate the Ministry of Defence's budget as a share of gross domestic product, we will find that, despite absolute growth in the next and subsequent years, the share is only growing very slightly by a hundred percent. I'd have two comments on that. It is a great pity that Prime Minister Sobotka, respectively. The Heads of Government, too, but on his own initiative, did not agree to an agreement already agreed by almost all the political parties represented in this Chamber of Deputies, so that the Ministry of Defence's budget would reach 2 per cent of GDP by 2025, not just 1.4 per cent by 2020. I will remind you that 2 percent of GDP was promised to our allies before joining NATO. I think that this commitment would be achievable, an adequate worsening security situation in the east and south of our interest area, and would allow the internal debt to be erased, the completion of the modernisation and development of our army. I am therefore afraid that is exactly what will be needed in the future. Moreover, it would be a commitment to a large part of the political spectrum, so that the military would be sure regardless of the shift of political forces. My second point is that, although the budget is growing in absolute terms, we will still belong to the pinnacle of the North Atlantic alliance, because if estimates are confirmed, the defence budget will not keep pace with the growing economy, and therefore not even GDP. The willingness to invest in defence and to be a full ally is, among other things, measured by this share. While cuts in the defence sector in times of economic crisis are tolerated, in fact, most NATO member countries have been through them repeatedly, I would expect the Prime Minister to expect this circumstance to take place in a more favourable economic situation in terms of increasing the budget, virtually. its share of GDP. In order not to be misinterpreted nicely, I will repeat that I am not criticizing the government for not increasing the defense budget, on the contrary, I am glad. I'm just saying that growth could, actually, be higher. Russia's expansion and provocation against the West, as well as the actions of terrorists in the Middle East and North Africa, are a completely visible threat to our interests and our geographical area, and only a high-quality deterrent force and a high-quality transatlantic alliance can guarantee our security. However, there is another aspect to the increasing budget - to be able to do well, that is to say, effectively and well spent is as hard as it is to wisely cut. Maybe what I said might sound trivial to somebody, but it's not. As can be seen from the past, the appetite can have negative effects on economic contractions in times of abundance. It's not just about buying some technology, it's about sustainability in its operation. It is always necessary to ask whether I will have enough people and enough money for regular operation throughout the acquisition cycle. There are many examples not only from the Czech Republic, when some purchase has been retaliated. This concerns, for example, an air force whose operation is very expensive, and if the purchase does not mean the whole cycle, the technique must be shut down at some point. It is good that in the proposed budget, respectively. in the outlook for the years to come, it is reflected that the so-called "lubricant" must first be deleted. internal debt from the past on material, equipment, maintenance, etc., which is estimated to be more than 100 billion. CZK, and only when investment projects are prepared, capital expenditure will increase. In other words, it is right that the economy of the resort will first focus on routine and personnel expenditure. After all, as you know, we have recently adopted Law 221 on professional soldiers, even though the Senate has returned it to us for some administrative technical matters and we will overvote it, so legisvakance should be such that this law should apply from 1. 1. 2015, and this standard will also allow the Ministry's personnel policy so that our army has quality soldiers who will grow not only in their careers, but, of course, will also increase their funds, and the quality is also directly proportional to what we expect from them, what we expect them to use for equipment. So, on the one hand, this should also be reflected in higher recruitment, then investment expenditures will only grow next to the capital ones. [[12.40 hours]] As far as investment expenditure is concerned, I firmly believe that the Minister will continue the trend set in the days of both Mr Alexandr Vondra and Mr Vlastimil Picko's ministers, when the concept, which is a broader consideration, preceded any decision. Concepts and strategic documents have always been accompanied by analyses and more widely discussed not only in the Ministry of Defence but also in the Government and in both chambers of Parliament, which has a fundamental control function. We know from open sources that the appetite for property acquisition is now relatively large, and I am curious when we will deal with any changes to the concept on the Defence Committee. I would consider this discussion to be very important, because it is only through it that we can ensure continuity, sustainability and efficiency in the coming years. Finally, the Ministry of Defence, and I would not blame Minister Stropnický, but all ministers in our modern history have had this problem, is a reputation for inability to drain the funds allocated. This is usually due to a complicated and often unsuccessful acquisition process. All ministers tried to change. Even Minister Stropnický declared that the effective use of the budget was his goal. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2014 is being drawn up. By being at the beginning of December, I suppose there will be at least some qualified idea of whether this year's budget is worth less than 42 billion. managed to exhaust, or whether something will be returned or transferred to next year. And, where appropriate, if the funds transferred can be used in any form by its resort in 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u81	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický reports with priority law and I note the factual remark of Mr Zahradník. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just briefly, I know that there are a number of entries. But maybe the subject will be different after that. So I'd just like to make a brief remark about the fact that there's often talk about the neglect, the underfinancing, some internal debt. Quite wild numbers are listed. On the one hand, it's a good thing there are critical voices. It surprises me sometimes when it's directly from the womb of the Czech Army, because I think in the past, when the internal debt deepened, I didn't hear that many voices. But that's just on the edge. But the neglect is not only material, it is also moral. And that's not some uninhibited magic word, but that's quite specific. It is manifested by a certain budgetary discipline or by its release to non-existence. So, although optically, the budget in the eyes of some of you can work, virtually. its increase in the next period, whether it's 2015, or even the outlook 2016, 2017, as modest, I am not saying that we can't imagine any more. I'd probably be a bad minister if I said so. But, on the other hand, we will undoubtedly get more resources for what is really needed by showing considerable savings. And I am already entitled to this fact in 2014, because it is common in various areas for operation, resources, etc. The reserves just are. And the longer we've been at the ministry with my colleagues, we find others and others that will actually represent an increase in budget options where it really needs to be. The important thing is that we want to increase the percentage that is intended for investment. Probably a lot of you know that the recommended percentage is 20 and we'll get somewhere next year over 15, let's say. We know that this is a crucial criterion. To do that, if we have to transfer any uninvested funds - we will. Of course, it does not please me either, but it is largely caused mainly by the fact that we had to conclude or renegotiate a number of contracts, which were also in hundreds of millions. And we were very much opposed to automatically succeding to these contracts without analyzing them without subjecting them to any screening so that we know that we really need it at this level for this long. Of course, that took some time, because if I don't say opponent, of course, he's a tough guy, and a lot of people have put some obstacles in this. But if I were to tell you that we were still depicted in September, that we needed an acutely new data network, which is quite essential, and that we were overshadowed as the number one emergency, and that it would cost roughly 900 million, then after our own analyses, we reached the number 600. There's a hell of a difference! So maybe it was worth waiting there or not rushing in some way. And, of course, we rely heavily on Law 137 to become a law that doesn't in any way penalize or hinder this sector, where many of our partners go very differently in those acquisitions. Also, true, in a different overall acquisition environment, but we'll definitely focus on this next year. There was also a certain personnel strengthening of the section. But I don't want to talk long. I'm glad the issues, at least I have the impression, maybe a little optimistic, but many of you are interested. It's also due to the security context, of course. I would like to thank the committee responsible for the unimaginable and unbiased interest in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u83	Thank you, Minister. Now, with Mr Jan Zahradník's factual remark, Mr Petr Bendl will prepare for a proper application in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to return to my amendment, which I included in the system as House document 1714. I would like to amend the proposal by excluding the words "Chapter 398 of the General Treasury" in the draft section and replacing the words "Chapter 396 expenditures State debt, debt service indicator". So the proposal will finally sound like this: "In the draft state budget for 2015 I propose in Chapter 315 the Ministry of the Environment for 2015 expenditure block 2.1 Nature and landscape conservation, Ideal heading 211 Improving the state of nature and landscape increase item 2.1.1 Landscape care program by 50 million. CZK and reduction in expenditure of Chapter 396 State debt, indicator of the operation of state debt, by 50 million. koruna." The reasons remain the same. I am handing it over to the rapporteur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u85	I thank Mr Zahradník for his time. Mr Petr Bendl is now speaking and Mr Fiedler will be ready if we can do this within 13 hours. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u86	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, once more. Let me say a few sentences to the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is strongly, from my point of view unfortunately little marked by the fact that the former časový Government has allowed the profits generated by the organisations that set up and established the Ministry of Agriculture to be used in the agricultural sector and the agricultural sector. [[12.50 hours]] From the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture is drawn, and unfortunately not only to agriculture, but also to the altar of other countries, I will say simply, last year or this year it was 6.5 billion. from the Forests of the Czech Republic, which in the time of Topolánkův and Nečasův' government accumulated on the accounts of the profits of the company Forests of the Czech Republic, it was an amount, I believe, about 16 billion overall. CZK and this year funds are drawn or used from the profit of the national company Budvar. This will be the same next year, only the amounts are increasing, which wants to draw the state budget, and it wants to use the amount of approximately 8.2 billion from the Forests of the Czech Republic. CZK and from Budvar approximately half a billion, which is an amount of 8.7 billion. CZK, which is taken from the agricultural sector. Unfortunately, it doesn't come back at all and there is only a part of it, which I consider to be a bad decision, because I think that more funding could be used to support the agricultural sector in individual subsidy titles, because we call for our farmers to be more competitive. We know how much money farmers are getting north of us, the Polák, or the Francouz, and so on in countries that are our competitors in this area. And if the government claims that food is self-sufficiency, or I will say agricultural production and self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic is a priority for them, then I do not understand why the money obtained from the profits of the Czech Forests or from Budvar does not go into this sector, but also disappears somewhere else. Unfortunately, we don't have a traditionally absent Minister of Agriculture here who doesn't even care about the state budget. And we don't even have a prime minister here that I could possibly ask to represent. Perhaps it is a popular card that they will simply not participate in their ministers of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting on a matter such as the state budget. But I must say once again that not only is it through the intervention and discussion of a number of points presented by the Minister of Agriculture to the Chamber of Deputies, but also the state budget is clearly not a priority for him. Maybe he's doing sugar beet harvesting, which I learned on his Facebook page. This may be the most important thing, because sugar beets are in line with the proposal to increase subsidies in the sugar sector by its priority, perhaps greater than the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. These funds, they're clearly in this chapter. [[unintelligible]] The chapter also discusses what funding we draw from the area of expenditure or from the European Union to the region of the agrarian sector. And thank God I have to say that the Ministry of Agriculture has drawn European money quite well in the long run, one of the best, not only at the level of the Czech Republic between the various operational programmes, but also in comparison with the operational programmes of the individual countries of the European Union. The more I regret it, and as Minister of Agriculture in the last parliamentary term, I fought very hard to prevent some programmes in which the Ministry of Agriculture could draw very well from going to the Ministry of Environment, in which the drawing does not look good at all. Unfortunately, the government is not counting on such a solution.It wants to move the funds that the Ministry of Agriculture has been able to draw well into the Ministry of the Environment, which has not been able to draw them well. So I am just reminding all those critics who will perform here in the future, how badly it was drawn and pumped, that unfortunately they remain in waters that are not good for the Czech Republic. With regard to future drawbacks, because this is also part of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, which envisages that European funds should be drawn into the area of the Rural Development Programme, etc. next year, but generally it would be interesting to see where European money can actually be drawn. There are already proposed specific expenditures in the order of billions of crowns, but we know that the first challenges may come sometime in September, maybe in November, and who knows that. So I would like to ask Mr. Still not at the Chamber of Deputies to ask the Minister of Agriculture whether he would make this clear to us and not tell us how much he expects to actually run out, because I think that the Minister of Finance should know the information - although they have planned some expenses, it is obvious that they will not be able to spend it, and if it would not be better to invest the funds more effectively than to plan them into spending, but then there will simply be no money spent, because I can imagine that the pressure logically from the Ministry of Agriculture has always been and should be. I don't like the fact that forest management support is falling. It is the order of hundreds of millions of crowns, perhaps from the point of view of the state budget it is insignificant. It's described here that about 200 miles. CZK, which reduces the support for forestry, that it will be covered by unused expenditure, so I want to see what the unused expenditure will be and how much the amount will ultimately do in the finals, whether the forests are now non-state forests in this case, the priority of the Minister of Agriculture, or not, because so far we are seeing that interest and support in the area of non-state forest management are declining. And I think it's quite a shame, given future generations. What I want to pause on is an area that doesn't seem to belong, or maybe nobody even really knows it belongs or doesn't belong to the Department of Agriculture, and that's animal abuse. The Ministry of Agriculture has allocated a huge amount of CZK 3 million to this question. At the end of my ministry, I tried to prepare a concept that would address the issue of the abuse of large animals, especially cattle, horses, sheep and goats, because this is more and more common in the territory of the Czech Republic, and the state clearly does not have the tools to take them away in the event of the abuse of these large animals, and it does not have the ability to take care of the animals so that they can be dealt with in a reasonable way. Three million crowns is a really ridiculous amount. I wanted to ask the absent Minister of Agriculture whether he wanted to do something about this in the future or whether it was an issue for him that he was not extremely interested in. The issues of other priorities. Thanks to the sensible approach and reform of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture can now boast of foreign feathers and can say: the administrative costs of running the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund will be reduced by about 400 miles. Kč. Less administration. We could save the funds that the State had made in the past, so that it could devote them to specific support in the agricultural sector. I wonder where the Minister of Agriculture wants to put them, how he wants to use them, etc. I've read, at least, but when we said here this morning, at least on my part, a little bit of a nudge that the agri-food sector is going up in the area of investment. It's not a dizzying percentage, but it's rising in contrast to other areas, which I wouldn't say too humorously anymore. I would say that what is happening especially in the area of family farming and farming is not enough what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing. I don't see any results or financial preparation for any specific activities that are going into this area. I may be surprised by the Minister when we discuss the budget of the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund, but from the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture chapter that perhaps small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural sector would be a priority, so that is not really an indication. Just as I do not see here that there should be an announced priority in the name of water in the landscape, supporting the muddying of ponds, building new ponds, or ponds where they once were, etc. It's not even very visible from this material. [[13.00 hours]] I could talk for a very long time, I could also mention that the income of the state's organizational components from the fees that have been in the past, although it does not seem to be in the agricultural sector, so the state does not have the income, in simple terms, or declines, that means that we have not sent them too much to the agricultural sector. We haven't bothered and we're not burdening the agricultural sector, which is a good trend, and we need to support it and say that this is the right way to do it. To conclude, it is a maintenance budget that lives very well because of the profits that the organisations of the Ministry of Agriculture have, and there is no clear will to see that at least half of the government's programming declarations are being implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u87	I thank Mr Petr Bendl, and since it is 13 o'clock, I ask if my colleague Kalousek wants that factual comment now. Yes, and after that factual remark, I will interrupt the meeting for the meeting of the Organizing Committee and the lunch break. We'll continue 14.30. Now the factual comment of the Chairman of the TOP 09. Club chairman after recess. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u88	Thank you for your understanding and patience, I will really be very short. Mr Bendl complained that the Minister of Agriculture was not here to hear these objections. I want to oppose him and tell him that he doesn't have to worry about it. Junior Minister of Agriculture is not really here, but senior Minister of Agriculture is present. The entire agrarian public knows that Minister Jurečka will only do what Faltýnek and Babiš allow him to do, and they are both here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u89	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'm declaring lunch break. We will continue with the state budget at 14.30 and the organising committee will meet at the latest at 13.06.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We will continue to discuss the point that we started discussing in the morning. It is a government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2015, House printing 331, second reading. The Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Mr Andrej Babiš, as well as the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, have already taken his place. We'll continue and continue as I'm registering applications here. I have a factual remark from Mr Faltýnek here, but I don't see him anywhere, so in that case I cancel his point of order, and if he wishes, he can rejoin. Mr Karel Fiedler, Mrs Černochová, Mr Laudát and others are ready for the debate. I will therefore ask for Mr Karel Fiedler's speech. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to touch two chapters. It is, on the one hand, Chapter 335 of the Office of the Government... sorry, Chapter 304 of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, and to mention how it was discussed in the Committee on Petitions, where no resolution was adopted by the Committee on Petitions. It's already been mentioned here today. There were reservations about the draft budget submitted and we also addressed the contributions that are from the chapter of the Office of the Government to non-profit organisations. These non-profit organisations receive considerable funding from the budget of the Office of the Government and, in question, whether the effectiveness of the spending of these funds can be demonstrated by the results of this work, it was not possible to obtain this answer from the representative of the Office of the Government. I myself did the thing that I visited such one company, which happens to be a nonprofit of the year title, which I'm sure appreciates their work, asking what my own activity is, what the results of the work are. And that's where I checked, and it's been confirmed to me that they don't have feedback on what the results of their work are, how these funds are spent. For your information, I will just state that from the 2015 draft budget, contributions to organisations dealing with prevention from addictive substances are 95 million. CZK and contributions to organizations for the integration of the Roma community into society, rounded to CZK 44 million. Crowns. That's a pretty big part of the government's budget. I, in the amendment to which I am therefore referring, is House document 1747, I propose that half of these amounts allocated to them be linked by being transferred to the general treasury administration and then, when the results of their work are documented, the fact that this activity has benefits has the effect that it is not only spent funds for any activity, but with a practical final consequence that these items should then be released. So the conditional binding of these items. I would like to ask you to support this proposal, because we are constantly rethinking the effective spending of funds, the investigation, and to demonstrate the practical results of this activity is problematic. And now the second chapter I would like to comment on is budget chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. The proposed budget indicates an increase in the funds for wages, with both parts of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, called. The Institute and the Archives, the Institute does not have a planned increase in the number of persons, and therefore wage funds, but in the archive, in the number of 35 persons. I am therefore very pleased that this amendment, which I have already tabled in the Committee on Budgets - that is, I will say that it has not been supported, but I know that it is now basically in the form in which I have put it in the Committee on Budgets, recorded by other Members, namely colleague Bartošek - so I am very pleased that it has been acknowledged that it is justified that representatives of other members of the club agree with this. So I would just like to say that I have already completed my amendment on the items related to this, which means not only the cost of wages but also the related compulsory contributions of insurance premiums, which is no longer in the amendment tabled by my colleague Bartošek, and also the related items in the FKSP fund. So the two proposals are very similar, but mine, the original one, I dare say, is complex, is drawn to the end, and therefore I believe that not only the KDU-ČSL MEPs, but also from other MPs, will support the fact that it will not be carried out in the ÚSTR in a fictitious way... that there will be a transfer of employees, which practically means that their number will be reduced in the Institute, that is the documents I have documented from the report by Mr Hazdra's current director that he is about to be fired, and, on the other hand, the recruitment of other staff in the chapter of the archives, who I do not know whether they are incorporated or not, but in any case they are expected to be with others. So, on the one hand, the severance pay will probably be paid, on the other hand, the workers will be recruited, which has absolutely no logic. It's a waste of money. Moreover, as has been claimed, it is not the fact that in one part, in the Institute, there will be a reduction in the number of employees and in the archive there will be an increase, but the draft budget presented in this chapter is intended only to increase in the chapter of the archive, not to reduce these items in the chapter of the Institute. Everything is mentioned in House document 1739 and, therefore, if we want to act as administrative economic operators and avoid unnecessary waste of funds, I would like to ask you to support this proposal. They're pragmatic numbers, no politics. If he doesn't agree with this, then all I have to do is wonder if there is any policy in this move to take place in the USTR. And I want to believe it isn't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Černochová from ODS is also registered. Mr Laudát and then Mr Jeroným Tejc will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u93	Thank you. There's a green pencil that says Middle Bohemia County. If anyone misses her, she's on the pitch. Ladies and gentlemen, nice afternoon. I'm sorry, I just saw the Home Secretary here, the Chovanec, who just popped out, but if he hears me in the lobby, I believe he'll come back and answer my questions. While I have asked some questions in the Security Committee, not all of them have been answered, so I would like to ask the Home Secretary to answer my questions today as part of the second reading of the state budget. The government declared an increase of 3,5 percent in civil servants' salaries and 5 percent in members of the congregations. The difference in the expenditure of the Ministry of Interior in 2014 and 2015 covers this increase in salaries, but it is no longer sufficient to cover the total additional wage costs. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior, or the Minister of Finance, why the Ministry of Finance did not compare the budget with these costs when it comes to one of the government priorities. The budget assumes a reduction in social benefits, where there are also debts, and it is about CZK 650 million, with the resulting figure being 4.44 billion. And this is based on developments in 2014, but also on an increase in the number of benefits, which increased by about 2,000, and the anticipated annual increase in pensions. That's where it should be 2 per cent. What is the projected real expenditure on social benefits for 2014 and what exactly is the result of next year's reduction?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u94	I'm sorry, Madam. I'm going to ask the left side of the Chamber of Deputies to keep it down so we can hear what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u95	Thank you. I would also like to answer this question, because I would like to know why there were such high funds in recent years. And if you remember, last year, I was just pointing out that it wasn't settled there. So my words are confirmed that in the 2014 budget, this amount was oversized when it is now decreasing. But I'd like to ask the Home Secretary to confirm this... [[Shut up for a loud call in the government desk.]] .) Vice-President, I'm sorry, I can't go on with the noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u96	The noise has stopped. You may proceed, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u97	And I'm glad. I thank the Minister for listening to my request and coming to the O.R. I would like to ask, and I think that this should bother all of us quite a lot, why expenditure on research, development and innovation is so greatly reduced. It is around 43 percent and the assumption of the same level in 2016 and 2017 is also this figure. It's minus CZK 270 million in these real figures, which is a lot. I really think that we should not be saving money in the field of research, development and innovation, because it will bring some further savings elsewhere in the future, and we should definitely invest more money in these projects. Medium-term expenditure is expected to reduce the budget of the Ministry of the Interior by approximately CZK half a billion in 2016. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior how the Ministry of the Interior wants to finance salaries at a level that will be set up by the budget for 2015. It will probably be necessary, according to these figures, to look for savings in other budget areas. I wonder in which, at the expense of which other ministers, these funds will be reduced so that the budget of the Ministry of the Interior can be matched and the salaries financed. My final question is to the Prime Minister when I would like to ask the Prime Minister or Minister Dienstbier. When the Civil Service Act mentioned the creation of a Directorate-General under the Office of the Government, Minister Dienstbier planned the establishment of this office and the transfer of various tables to the Office of the Government. There was also talk of the emergence of new places. Today, the application of the law is in the Gesture of the Ministry of the Interior, where on the contrary, you can read from the chapter book that there is a loss of civilian employees. So I want to ask if the original plans of Minister Dienstbier were oversized, if the Minister had dreamed of any number of employees, because I don't see them anywhere, and yet the fact that it moved to something else doesn't mean that the need for these people would shrink. So that is what I would like to know from the Prime Minister, if the original plans of the Minister were oversized and how this change, which will therefore be at the Ministry today, will not be under the Office of the Government, but it will be under the Minister of the Interior, how the introduction of this law in practice will be secured by personnel. And completely, but the very last question I have not yet received a written answer to, although I have asked the Minister of Interior for it, is what number of members of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps can be expected in 2016 and 2017 and what number of other employees will be, whether it is the category of state service or outside it. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u98	Thank you, Madame. Another one entered in the proper debate is Mr Laudát. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Without knowing it, today is a very... one of the few, but the basic uniting line, and that's the declass of the future that manifests itself in the fact that you - and now I am speaking to the Minister of Finance and to the Prime Minister - are stressing the future by reducing money to innovation, research, development, science, even against deep crisis flights. It is a pity that any economist who stands outside any political struggle will not make a really broad and independent audit, because then it would clearly have to fall out of it, and this is conditional on you being the opposition, of course you will be criticized at any cost, it would necessarily have to conclude that this is a classic example of the eating budget, the budget of the subsidised economy, the senseless subsidies that will bring economic benefits to the beneficiaries, solve perhaps loans, loans to some firms, but believe that for our successors it will mean a big declass. Then we can talk about why our economy is little efficient, why we have low GDP against developed countries. With all due respect for the agriculture that I also come from, remotely, you will not create great values in the future that will allow large social programs to support the weakest part of the people, the disabled, those who fail in life, and at least they need to be brought to a dignified level. [[14.50 hours]] We even discussed twice on the Economic Committee chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, where it came out like a devil out of a box, really. And the Minister of Industry and Trade - I feel sorry for him, he was preparing for a completely different post, so I know he's probably skating unpleasantly in the whole issue of the MIT - he can't help himself. If he doesn't have money compared to last years to support interesting projects in Czech companies, for Czech heads, he can just say what he wants, but it won't help. What's going on here as another uniting line is that actually investment in science, research and development - especially in these technologies is deadly, it's completely fragmented, and the absent vice prime minister for science, research and development should start doing something. I do not know to what extent the government has given him sufficient competence to put this into real life. We've been talking here, and I won't repeat myself, about the part that's financially hidden in the Office of the Government. It's only a marginality, even if Mr. Bělobrádek were able and had the competence to compare the completely messy, inefficient system, so that would be a small amount of money, and let him have twice as much. Just to show how it looks, I've pulled out some chapters that I'd expect science, research and innovation items to occur. The Ministry of Industry has 2 billion there. 840 miles. And some thousands, the Department of Transport has zero there, nothing. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in this systematic material has 17 billion. 226 miles. And some more money. Department of Environment zero. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs - where something could be found for a kind of transnational cooperation or something like that, it is not escalated, I am not present in the discussion of this chapter - so they are 4 billion. 582 miles. It is uncertain for this budget, if it is implemented in this way, it is completely uncertain and will end in collapse of the Czech Technical Agency. It is a great pity, and we are going to try to remedy this here with a comprehensive amendment that would extend and get to Central Europe, I note, the Central European level of our participation in the ESA Space Agency programme. There are two parts, one is mandatory, mandatory fees, compulsory participation - we pay that. Then there are optional programs, which we don't pay yet. And we eminently ask that we engage in the optional part. The economic effect is truly amazing. Today, space research is no longer about any adventure, as is perceived by the majority of the Czech public, given that public television and public media are not involved in this issue, it does not teach our general population where the world is going and what is really an economic necessity, and not by some adventure or by some timid examination of something just for the amusement of some individuals or groups. So there is an amendment in the system, where the President of ODS Stanjura is signed, I am signed under it, Mr Seďa is there, I assume that for time reasons alone we have not added others who applied from KSČM, colleague Šidlo and others, Václav Snopek. I note that we have been looking at the Ministry of Transport for a long time in its budget, whether it could be there, because competently it is his competence to find money, but his budget is so looted that if we point out a particular item there, we will essentially ruin the activities that he has to perform by law or in terms of the functionality of the transport system. The fact that we are merely supporting the Government's resolution, whether it is 2011 but also the Sobotkův Government's resolution, we are trying to help you, so we really want to help our successors in particular so that they do not have to work hard, manually, manually, on the lines, but actually work on lines that they will be proud of because there will be high added value. I'm just pointing out that, for example, even though we are not in the optional part of the programs, Czech companies are participating today - I pulled some information from the desk, from the statistical office - on space projects. And you'll be surprised, for example, by the 70 small companies involved, they generate a turnover of 25 billion. and employ 15,000 people. Just so you know, this isn't really about romance anymore. And what we would need, or the Czech economy, is the Czech industry, which keeps above water not official states, but specific manufacturers, our economy, our gross domestic product, so in this optional ESA programme is Earth observation, telecommunications, satellite navigation, carrier rockets and general technology. It seems that I will not keep you here because we are discussing a budget, not some education, and the Minister of Finance has at least three to four people in his club who know where the world is going, and they will certainly explain to him, educationally, what the budget he is proposing will do for the future. So I would ask you very much to support this amendment across the political spectrum. In the Economic Committee he received his general support, he is even mentioned in the accompanying resolution on the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade which was not approved on the Economic Committee that innovative technologies need to be supported, I say this freely, modified. We really know what we recommend for this budget. If that were not the case and you did not approve it - there are even two possible chapters or two different items that can be covered - then at least I would ask you to make some budgetary arrangements during the year. I would like the Prime Minister to come in really intensively, visit and look into companies where innovation is running, and ask those people who are specifically involved in this, who are producing machines, technology offers high added value to ask them how they are economically stable, how stable they are at either weak economic growth or even economic downturns, and instead of unbridled populism and spending money on the left, on the right, without the future and increasing mandatory spending he has seen it. It then has other social aspects, social aspects. Then those people, when they do top-notch things, live much better not only economically, but also mentally, because they are proud of what they do. And the fact that our society is mentally in a kind of a trump and a crisis today, one of the keys is in this area. So I'd like to ask you a lot. Otherwise, in the characteristics of the budget, which the coalition appears to be voting next week, you are buying voters. That's your preference. You buy the future of some companies, but they are not promising for a longer horizon of Czech prosperity and stability. But what you certainly don't buy with this budget is the future of our successors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have here a factual remark from Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u101	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would just like to correct my previous speaker, Mr Laudát. He said that the chapter of the MIT was not approved. No resolution has been adopted, it is correct, not that it has not been approved. No resolution has been adopted, which is the difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u102	Thank you. Seriously, anybody? Member Ivan Pilný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u103	Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, yes, they really mention spending on science, research and innovation here as red thread in several contributions. I think that not only our movement, but the whole government takes this issue seriously, but I have said here several times on specific cases that money must also be treated effectively and have some added value. I am currently leading a working group in our science, research and innovation movement, and we are trying to look for concrete steps to improve this situation. It is not only about the money from the state budget, but, as has been rightly mentioned here, I think, in Mrs Putnová's contribution, there is also a risk of European money, perhaps in centres of excellence. Some of them will have great problems keeping subsidies for five years, and they may even be returning them. At present, nothing but short-term measures can be done. The support of the Space Agency, adopted by the Economic Committee, has already been mentioned here. When the SFDI budget is discussed, we will certainly be looking for a transfer of money towards technological innovation. I was also recently present at the opening of the Cybernetics, Informatics and Innovation Center at the Czech Technical University, which is financed from state money. These are very sensible steps. A proposal has been made for the transfer of 350 million from the MIT budget, which may have a bit of a problem with this, directly to the Technological Agency, which has been designated here by Mr Laudát, as before the collapse. So concrete steps are being taken that should lead the money spent in this area to actually bring something to the economy. It is, of course, a long run and at this point it is not possible to do anything but short-term measures. The distribution of this money to all possible ministries, that's already been done. This has been supported from 11 sources, and the situation has been far worse than it is currently possible. So it's a good thing the money is somehow centralized.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u104	Your time is up, Ambassador. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u105	The support is just there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u106	Thank you very much. Another point of fact is made by Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm so sorry, it happens to me once every couple of years, but I've done the same thing twice for suggesting that the resolution has been approved. It was supported across, however, due to the procedural fights that took place there, it was not finally approved. However, I would say that he has spiritual support. I'm so sorry, you're absolutely right. The point was that when we adopted a resolution that did not approve the resolution on the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, there were three items. The first was that you're counting on money that doesn't support legislation, it's mining fees. The second was that there was a lack of items to repair the damage to the disposal of mining activities before privatization of state enterprises, in other words, our predecessors, and maybe someone would rob some territory for us, and then leave it lying down, so the poor locals. This was also supported across the board. And the third was that the chairman of the Economic Committee didn't seem very high, I totally agree with him, spending, I think it was for IT management, I think it was a register, a database of registers. Then there was chaos. I'm so sorry, it wasn't formally approved. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u108	Thank you. I have a request from Minister Chovanec, although we are discussing the state budget, because there was a heated discussion in the morning about what is going on in Vrbětice in the ammunition warehouse, whether he could speak and refer to the situation, with the fact that I would like to ask you, colleagues, to take this as information and not to be a subject for discussion. Because the real material around the state budget is extensive and we should discuss it today. I propose that the Minister should speak and give us information, and that Mr Radim Fiala of the Dawn would speak with priority. I ask if anyone objects to the proposed procedure. It's not like that. In that case, I'll ask Minister Chovanec for information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u109	Mr President, Prime Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I apologize for not being here this morning. We were dealing with the situation in the place itself through telemoste. Discussion with the intervention commander, with the fire rescue corps, with the police and with the army. I've been on the phone with the Prime Minister, and I want to confirm here that the information he filed here was from me. This means the initial information of the Police of the Czech Republic about the causes of the explosions was primarily an explosion in the original site of the epicenter by the fact that part of the basement collapsed, based on the temperature change. This was the initial information from the Police of the Czech Republic. Patrol Police of the Czech Republic, which patrols the perimeter, saw and heard the explosion in the area of the original epicenter. Unfortunately, we are currently unable to confirm the information that the Czech News Agency has distributed. The Czech News Agency took this information from one of the municipalities' websites and there is talk of another warehouse exploding near the epicenter of the original explosion. The flight conditions currently do not allow the Army of the Czech Republic or the police to take off with the helicopter and look over this area. The drone that was borrowed from the Army of the Czech Republic was withdrawn in the past days and is currently being transported to the place itself. At present, therefore, this drone is flying from Prague to the place, with the fact that we expect this drone still in the early hours of the evening, which has thermovision, will fly over the area, record what happened there, and I assume that we will then be able to clearly define tonight if it is the original suspicion mentioned by the Prime Minister here on the basis of my information, i.e. The collapse of the original subsoil within the blast that was here a few weeks ago, or if it was a new explosion. Experts also talk about the fact that the change in temperature, the way the temperature has changed significantly, can initiate ammunition that is spread around the surrounding area. The unpleasant thing about this, ladies and gentlemen, is that there must be an evacuation of two municipalities. The municipalities have a total of 430 inhabitants and we are currently preparing accommodation for these people. I have asked a very strong representative of the Fire Rescue Corps to find accommodation that will be good, which will not rush these people to the hostels or to the gymnasiums, i.e. We're looking for accommodation that matches the standard conditions of the 21st century. This is already happening at the moment. We're ready as soon as the drone passes, we'll know the information, we're ready to tell the public through the media where the cause is. We cannot confirm the information from one of the municipalities' websites that another warehouse has exploded. The explosions began after seven o'clock, were quite intense, followed by the first big explosion, followed by 20 smaller explosions, and since then with a certain periodicity the explosions have echoed. From 11:30 p.m., when the press conference was held, we have recorded 17 more explosions to date, in intensity from 1 to 10 somewhere at level 6 to 7, i.e. They're stronger explosions. However, it can only be that there has been a change in temperature and really only the ammunition from the original epicenter blows. Unfortunately, I cannot confirm any other information at the moment, because I simply do not have it. [[15.10 hours]] To date, 35 people have been evacuated from these two municipalities with the assistance of the IZS components, while more than 130 have left separately. Now the problem is that the residents of these municipalities are to return from work at this time, and we have already decided at 11 o'clock that other evacuation sites and accommodations should be prepared for these citizens. I am very well aware that there will also be a situation that many of these residents will want to secure domestic animals in their homes, have no funds, clothes, and other things. Everything is being worked on, and police officers are instructed, of course, to defend the health and lives of citizens, to try to allow citizens to enter their homes, but this depends on the decision of the intervention commander. Unfortunately, I do not have any further information at the moment. As soon as we have them, we will inform the public and the Chamber of Deputies we can inform by e-mail about the state. I guess that's it. Finally, I want to say clearly and out loud that what was said here by the Prime Minister was the initial information from the Police of the Czech Republic and it is still one of the options that cannot be excluded. This was the initial information I received and forwarded to the Prime Minister for information from the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u110	Thank you, Minister. And now we will proceed as we have agreed. I'll give the floor with priority rights to President Radim Fial. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u111	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, Prime Minister, colleagues, just one sentence to the Minister's information. I think it's a big disaster and the state is obliged to take care of the citizens, and I hope it will. And now back to the state budget. The government budget proposed by the government for 2015 is expected to grow by 2,5 percent. That's an extremely optimistic number. In fact, in my view, we will be happy if economic growth reaches 2 percent. To estimate greater growth from the context of uncertainty in the European economy and unprecedented instability in the world is, in the view, optimism bordering on folly. I want to say that I have found several optimistic moments that don't make much sense in this budget, and I would like to draw your attention to one of them as an example today. The unemployment estimate in 2015 at 6,1% is evidently seen by the optics of the same pink glasses as the above estimate of GDP growth. Paradoxically, an increase in unemployment aid of 300 million is foreseen. Crowns. This raises the logical question: why are you expecting more spending next year to support the unemployed when these unemployed are to be 1 to 2 percent lower? That, ladies and gentlemen, is not logical. I guess we all feel that. Overall, this draft budget is indeed full of peculiarities. Overvalued revenue covers almost everything but the future, and that is what we would need most. I mean, the Department of Transport's budget is down by 8.3 billion. CZK, and so here comes the question that the government is now being asked by the trade unions where the investments are. Where is the increase in funds that will ensure our future income? Let us not expect an increase in these resources from the European Union. From here, according to government estimates, we get 14 billion next year. koruna less than this year. Unfortunately, the lack of funding from the European Union will continue to deteriorate. This will make the situation worse in regions that are already at risk of bankruptcy or stagnation. The long-term difference between Prague and most other regions of the country will thus continue to deepen. The imaginary scissors will open. Overall, this draft budget kind of looks like we are counting on economic well-being for the rich and even greater poverty for the poor. And all that on the debt that we will all have to pay back in the future, especially the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Jeroným Tejc is also in the debate and Mr Adámek and Mr Novotný will be prepared after that. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u113	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to sign up to the amendment under 'No'. 1718 to the Act on the State Budget of the Czech Republic. I propose a relatively minor change in the context of other proposals. These are - in quotation marks only - 35 miles. Crowns. I am aware that this is not a small amount, that it is relatively small only in the context of other expenditures, but that it is a change that certainly deserves the attention of the House. So let me tell you why and for what reasons I propose this change. I propose to move it only within the budget chapter of the Ministry of Justice, because I am aware that the basic parameters of each chapter have been given and I do not think it is right for us to favour one resort over another, over what has already been agreed. The 35 miles. CZK, which should be transferred within the Ministry of Justice's Ministry of Justice, should serve as funds to secure the new 86 seats of senior judicial officials; 86 because a higher judicial officer should be newly available in each district, which should control the executors in that district. Today, according to the law, they exercise, among other things, but above all, the control of the executors of the District Courts, who unfortunately do not receive any additional funds for this activity. Therefore, if they want to carry out this control, they have used the resources allocated to individual courts, which, unfortunately, combined with the effectiveness of the new Civil Code and its accompanying regulations, meant that these funds were primarily transferred to most places in favour of the new agenda, new disputes, and there is a concern that the control, which has already been underestimated, would not be even worse in the future. That is why I would like to propose that the President of the court should always have at his disposal one senior judicial officer who could help and directly carry out checks on individual executors in the territory concerned, because, on the basis of a review of the files, on the basis of his own initiative or on the initiative of citizens, there may be no information about the violation of the law by the executor concerned, and then the President of the court may bring an action which may lead to the fact that the executor in question, if he violates the law, will end up in office. The aim of this proposal is therefore not to concentrate control mechanisms only in Prague at the Ministry of Justice. In the past, there were two to three people in the department that dealt with this, and that was really little. I think that because of the state we have today, we are reaping fruit precisely because the previous governments unfortunately did not pursue this issue. I would like to add an additional argument to the Coalition Members - control and effective supervision of the executives is also part of the government's programming statement, and I think that this is one of the things that can help to fulfil this item in the programming declaration, although I am aware that this solution is a solution that is now an amendment, and if it is adopted, it will be well, if it is not, we will have to look for another way in agreement with the Minister to set up effective control of the executives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u114	Thank you, too. And now, please, to Mr. Adámek's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u115	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, fellow Members, let me tell you, in my opinion, some essential information on this amendment to Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic. In its programming declaration, the government undertook to make cultural expenditure 1% of the annual state budget. The total expenditure of the Ministry of Culture for the state budget for 2015 is 10.9 billion. CZK, which is 0.89 %. But it has to be said that 3.5 billion. This budget consists of expenditure on the basis of the law on religious restitution to churches and religious societies. Personally, I think it might be better and more correct if these expenses were the expense of the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of the Interior. If we subtract these expenses related to churches and religious societies, the Ministry of Culture's share of state budget expenditure is 0.65%. Perhaps we should be inspired in Germany, where, according to the budget committee resolution, the expenditure on culture proposed for next year is 5%. I would like to quote a sentence here, which the German Minister of Culture said in the spirit of this address: "It is a political signal to all cultural leaders and politicians, so that even at a time of financial difficulties they do not cross out in culture," the Minister said. I think some examples should pull more than they pull. Dear colleagues, I believe that you will support my proposal and, after all, the proposal of all colleagues across the political spectrum who have dealt with this proposal in detail in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and voted unanimously in favour of its inclusion in the State budget for 2015. I am talking specifically about the Committee on Budgets and its resolution of 21. 11. 2014 in the field of financial support to important music festivals of classical music. Specifically these seven: Prague Spring, International Music Festival Český Krumlov, Dvořák Prague, Smetana Litomyšl, Czech Touches of Music, Autumn Struns, Janáček May. All the festivals listed have budgets in 2015 over 10 million. Crowns. By the way, this proposal received support from all the members of the Budget Committee. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Perhaps it would be good to say -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u116	Mr. Ambassador, I am very sorry to disturb you, but the noise in the House is growing, and I think it is disturbing you even in the speech. I will ask my colleagues to respect your speech and, if they have anything to say to each other, to do so in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u117	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Perhaps it would still be, I do not want to delay for a long time, I will be very short already, but in my opinion it must be said that this is not an amendment made quickly, yesterday, lobbyist etc. It must be said that, on the contrary, it is a proposal supported by a whole series of resolutions not only by self-governing but also by legislative bodies. After all, the financing of music festivals is one of the priorities of the Union of Employment Unions. Only in speed, the process of positive financing of festivals, these large ones, which I dare say, for which there is also a presentation abroad, was discussed for example by the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic with a positive result. It has been discussed several times in the subcommittee on culture. koneckonců all, the Committee on Education, Science, Culture and Human Rights in the Senate discussed this issue at its 24th meeting with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Association and invited the Ministry of Culture to resolve the financing of the most important music festivals. In a similar spirit and last but not least, two of our resolutions in the House's institutions adopted, as I have already said, are also speaking on the subcommittee on Culture 30. 10. It must be said that the subcommittee on culture has repeatedly, conscientiously, let me say, and has long devoted and proposed solutions which it has passed on to the Committee on Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, education. He, at his meeting, unanimously adopted a resolution which he accepted and also adopted by the Committee on Budgets. This proposed solution, as you can see, has gained support across the political spectrum, and I believe it is a demonstration of how political representation of different parties can unite over the good things for the benefit of our Republic and its citizens, as well as the entire cultural sphere. Now, let me formally read the amendment. I am talking about House document 1734. It is an amendment to the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015, the House Press No. 331. Increase the value of the expenditure block of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture by 44,185 million. for cultural activities, support for live art. Divide the amount as follows: 17 mil. for the Prague Spring International Music Festival, 8,070 mil. for International Music Festival Český Krumlov, 5.915 mil. for Smetanův Litomyšl, 5 miles. for Dvořákův's Prague, 3 miles. for Autumn Strings, 3.5 miles. for the International Music Festival Czech Music Touches and 1.7 miles. for Janáček May International Music Festival. All the above changes are reflected in the relevant indicators of the chapter of the Ministry of Culture. Reduce expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration, indicator of contributions to the EU budget, by an amount of 44,185 million. Finally, allow me to quote one unnamed colleague from our House, who, when discussing this issue in the Committee on Budgets, said a sentence that stuck in my memory. Babiš knows a few people - I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. [[He's turning to the news desk.]] Maybe a few people in the world know me, too. But everyone knows Prague Spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u118	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Novotný's microphone, Mr Kádner will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u119	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will try not only to be declarative but really brief. My speech leads to the conclusion that I will sign up to one amendment, as it should be in a detailed debate. At its last meeting, the Economic Committee experienced such a remarkable peripetia of relatively long debates about the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic, the topic has already been mentioned here today. The debate concerned one specific item, namely an increase in revenue from the payment of the conquering area and from the extracted minerals. The debate was politically remarkable in the fact that the representatives of the Ministry of Industry were not able to give a very credible and rational description of how the number was found there, in the draft budget, and somehow mysteriously suggested that it was there after the meeting and at the request of the Ministry of Finance. The debate had no output and led to such an irrational situation that, for this reason alone, the economic committee was not even willing to support this chapter in repeated voting, namely the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, to approve it for today's discussion. This merely suggests that the problem for most members of the Economic Committee was fundamental and that principle relates to the legality and methodology of the preparation of the budget itself. It has already been mentioned here today that the method of preparing the budget is regulated by Act No. 218 on budgetary rules, which, among other things, I will quote only one specific paragraph, in § § § 1 states that the State budget constitutes financial relations which ensure the financing of certain functions of the State for the financial year, and to this end the State budget focuses on the budget revenue defined by this, that is the State budget law or special law. In this case, the special law is the upper law - and we all probably know that, even in the context of the legislative plan and the estimated procedure of the next steps, this law should be on the agenda in the coming months. No one was able to tell us what mathematical formula, what kind of estimate, what prediction it was found to be a few hundred percent higher. Whether it was based on a divination of a sphere or on some rational reasoning. [[15.30 hours]] I believe that this, and this is not a question of personal conviction, is a question of even the laws in force, that this cannot be done in the preparation of the budget. At the same time, I would like to say, on the other hand, that I do not mean that there is no legitimate debate after this particular fee, this particular remuneration for many and many years has stagnated that it is entirely legitimate to open up the question of whether this item should not be increased in the future. But the procedure just has to be different, it has to be the opposite. First, the House must approve the amendment to the Mining Act, thus determining the mechanism for how this remuneration is due, and only then can we implement the budgetary measures in the course of the year as an increase, and already on the basis of a legitimate decision and a concrete, rational design, this fee. I know that my colleague Kádner is doing something very similar after me, which is why I put Amendment 1745 in the system, which concerns this particular issue. Again, it's a fundamental question. If we break this rule, the budget may fall apart completely in the future. There will be no rule, everyone will be able to charge the amounts as they please, the reading value will be zero. That is why I think that we should continue across the political spectrum to respect this principle when we decide on the amendments. A completely different question is, what political position will we take when the upper law is here and there will be one or more amendments to the relevant fee. So, at the end of my speech, I briefly and factually submit to Amendment 1745.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u120	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Kádner's microphone, Mrs Hnyková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u121	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to follow up with my colleague Novotný. I would like to introduce an adjustment to the state budget, which I will propose. I want to correct the reckless actions of the Ministers Mládek and Babiš, which would have a very negative impact on citizens and communities, especially in the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region. The government is preparing an amendment to the Mining Act, which currently counts on doubling the so-called the remuneration from the extracted minerals of brown coal. However, over the last six months, several figures have appeared. Originally, even ten times the fee was envisaged, and to this day the ministers Babiš and Mládek did not agree on the amount of the fee. In the upcoming amendment the conditions are set so that any increase in income will go to the state budget and the municipalities in northern Bohemia will remain only negative consequences. Today, these revenues are divided in proportion to 75 per cent of the municipality and 25 per cent of the state, but this is to be changed to 33 per cent for the municipalities and 67 per cent for the state. Minister Babiš thus tulnes the coal regions in the north by about half a billion crowns. All these negative steps will manifest themselves in the municipalities, because they will gain nothing from it. It is totally unacceptable that action with such a serious impact on vulnerable regions should be taken without proper debate and without mapping the impact. Originally, it was promised that the impact on regions would be clearly calculated within the framework of the law, that so-called reviews of the effects of RIA regulation would be made. As mayor of the village of Nové věs in Hory, one of the municipalities of Ústecký kraj, which is affected by the mining of brown coal, I am highly concerned that the government is doing everything behind our backs. The argument that the municipalities that now receive money from mining companies designated by law is not enough is enough because there are many other municipalities that are not counted in it. And we were just about to develop a debate about making the money really clear and fair. That's why I'm saying that if we were talking about any amount and any debate, we're opening up something that we really need to deal with honestly. In relation to the state budget, the problem is that the increase in brown coal revenues is already foreseen in the 2015 budget. The amendment to the Mining Act is only in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and has not yet been approved by the government, let alone discussed by Parliament. It is quite clear against the budgetary rules that revenue should count on funds for which laws are far from being passed. I see in this the effort that ministers want to insure the outcome of the amendment to the Mining Act. I'm sure in a few weeks we'd have put up with the arguments that the state budget is already counting on the revenue of the law, and that's how we have to approve it. I call this solution a clear no. We can't approve the budget if we don't have laws on it yet. It should be said that Members of the Economic and Budget Committee have already noticed this. The Ministry of Industry's budget chapter was not approved because of this. Therefore, I propose that we remove these planned funds from the state budget and thus allow proper negotiation of the Mining Act and the adoption of a proper state budget without hidden fouls in the municipalities in the regions, which already have a difficult situation. The explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act for 2015 states: Other non-tax income includes the expected increase in income from the payment of the acquisition space and from the acquired minerals in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade plus 0.5 billion. In the table annexed to the revenue of the state budget according to the species classification, revenue from the use of exclusive rights of natural resources in the MIT chapter is shown in revenue of 580 million. Kč. So this is an increase of 495 miles. I therefore propose an amendment to make in Chapter 324 Revenue from the use of exclusive rights from 580 million. The amount of CZK was 85 million. CZK on the revenue side. I hereby sign up for the amendment under number 1733. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u122	I thank Mr David Kádner. Now two priority rights - Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Babiš and Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek, but before that I will say an apology from 18.15 pm to Mr Josef Nekl. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd get off to the end, but I can't stand listening to all this nonsense and lies about the minerals. I'm not gonna talk about how we privatized Mostecka's coal, OKD and all the coal companies, and maybe we never should have privatized them. First, the yield from the extracted minerals can only be changed by decree. There doesn't have to be any amendment to the law. Just so we're clear. The decree will be at 1. 7th and at the same time we assume an amendment to the law. Yes, I came up with a ten-fold proposal because I was told that there was a case in West Germany because I'm the only minister looking for money in the budget. Then there was a big debate. Like it's really scandalous that I allowed myself for the state... Because the coal belongs to the state, I'd like to remind you, it belongs to us, the state. So in five years, the owners of coal companies paid off 18.7 billion. dividends and we got 1.252 billion. I guess. So 262 miles. per year. That's absolutely incredible how much money we got! So I took the liberty of saying we should get more. I started with ten times that. Scandal! He'll be released! Unions! Classic script. Eventually, Mr. Mládek and I agreed twice as much. So it's not going to be 262 miles, it's going to be 520 miles. I think everyone's gonna break up because they're gonna make billions before tax again. And he won't be released. That's all nonsense. [[15.40 hours]] And it's not true that communities come out in short. That's a lie, too. The village gets bigger... Do we want to change the affair? Well, because we get double. So, of course, the state needs money. You guys are still performing with some changelings, everybody needs money. So the communities get what they get, so the state gets what they get. To reduce the deficit. So just for the minerals, just so we're clear, it's nonsense. Here it was tilted in multiple speeches. And once again, there's no need for a law, it's for a decree, we're agreed to double that. And 18.7 billion. dividends. And I'm not talking about privatization here. I guess we should have kept the coal. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u124	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. Although I have priority rights, I must give the floor to a factual point - first to Mr Kučer, Mr Novotný, then to Mr Kádner and then to the chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek club. Then priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u125	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I listened with great interest to the words of Minister Babiš, who began somewhere in prehistoric time with some privatization of some businesses. You know, Minister, I'm interested in receiving the state budget one thing, and that's how much of that mineral levy will go to the municipalities. And I've told you this place before, I guess, at first reading. You have a planned income, but you have no planned expenditure towards the municipalities in the regions concerned, in the Ústí Region and in the Karlovy Vary Region. So if you're promising us anything else that you might do something, you're wrong because you don't have it in your budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u126	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mr Novotný Martin has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u127	Good afternoon again. It is very often - I do not want to be so half vulgar in this House - about the carriage and the goat. In my performance, I clearly divided the plane, whether and how much the fee should possibly be increased. Therefore, any policy about what has ever been done many years ago, who has any profits from it, is completely different from the one that we're going to base on any valid adjustments to the state budget, whether legal or decrees, etc., or whether we're going to shoot from the waist, we're going to overtake the process. I have to say in this that although the budgets have a different number of days, so that I have done a little bit more of those budgets than Minister Babiš and I have always been used to the fact that, in short, until I change any city decree before I change any adjustment that regulates an area, I have to be based on a valid situation. If this is changing in our country, if there's a new principle now, then maybe it's a habit of making decisions in some statutory bodies of some company where whoever's the owner tells it how it's gonna be. But it hasn't been done like this in the state sector. The moment we cross this rubicon, we can make a state budget at a different level of tax rates than they are at the moment, because why not, if the finance minister is planning to change those tax rates in the middle of the year. Sounds to me like it's an unstoppable thing. And this arrogant mockery of the legislative process that the Minister of Finance has repeatedly heard in this Chamber of Deputies, I think it's really alarming.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u128	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Kádner, also on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u129	Thank you. I have to respond. Minister, I've been listening to you, you probably haven't been listening to me, or you don't know what it's about. 'Cause first of all, I have to say, it's hard for someone to connect me to the fact that I've been tweaking some kind of Mostec coal. Secondly, I think that the municipalities versus the region of the state belong, i.e. that it's just a state, that doesn't just mean a state budget. I understand that there's an increase and that the municipalities they're getting up to now are going to be getting the same money. But we're talking about a lot of affected municipalities that aren't exactly in the mine's cadastral, so they're also disabled. And we have been clear for two years -- there have been several debates, even with the miners -- that we do not want to ask for any sponsorship donations. We just want to agree on some amount together so that there are clear rules. And the money goes to the state, goes to the edge and goes to all the communities. That's just not at the moment. And since we're making any change, we should really look at it from the bottom. And that's why I'm inviting you to the Ústí Region to debate the affected municipalities, which at this point don't get a crown from the state, so you know what we're up to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u130	Thank you. Now, a factual comment from the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek, then another factual comment from Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just very briefly to Mr Kádner, who said that municipalities are also a state. Municipalities aren't a state. That's how it was until 1990. Since then, thank God the state isn't and please don't tell Babiš. He might start to like it. [[Smile in the hall.]] It's just that municipalities aren't a state, which I'd quite like to hear. And secondly, Minister, you responded to something completely different from what our turn was appealing to. And it was my first question, which is why you so relentlessly despise the laws of the Czech Republic in everything you do, including the presentation of the state budget. I'll try to explain the difference between managing the company and managing the public budgets. As head of the firm, you can do anything the law doesn't forbid you to do. As an authorized person in a public office, you can only do what you are legally authorized to do. That's the big difference. And you're not legally authorized to invent a number in the state budget revenue that you're going to write just because you looked out the window, and there's no law to deduce why that number is there! Because if you didn't look out the window, but you looked into the law, there's a 400-mile number. lower. I'm not saying 400 miles. is a dramatic number within the overall balance sheet. But it is the dramatic behavior of a member of the Czech Government who gives a damn about the laws! And that's not the first time! I will name a few cases here where you completely publicly and arrogantly abandon the laws of the Czech Republic, which I am convinced that a member of the Government of the Czech Republic must not do!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u132	Thank you just before the time to make a point of fact. Now another factual point by Mr Karel Fiedler and another factual point by Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wouldn't want to forget what Vice-President Babiš said here, a figure of 18.7 billion that was paid on dividends. I'll get to the budget. We will definitely be dealing with some coal mining bailouts in our Moravian-Silesian region in the foreseeable future, dealing with the NVR, with OKD, how much we will contribute, how much they will pay, if 600 million, or 1 billion, or how much. So let's remember that these miners cost us 18.7 billion. dividends. And when the government talks to them about how we're gonna solve these problems, let's keep this figure in mind. A brief remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u134	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mr. Laudát's comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u135	Thank you. Mr. Finance Minister, I want you to keep these insults to the House. I asked you a month ago to give us the material or to tell us on the basis of what analysis you're fencing with how you tax or increase mining fees or not. Instead, we've been listening to your stories about carousels - I don't question them, they're important, before it was a paper savings. Then maybe you should be hard on the House. But it used to be customary here, before you came to the House, that when the Ministry was asked to give some kind of analysis, on the basis of which it was decided, what impact it had on employment, on the state budget, on the municipalities, on the companies that do business in that particular field... But you're just gonna grab something from some newspaper. Then you decide, first ten times, then twice, the Minister of Industry isn't enough to watch. There should be an analysis somewhere. Because you always affect the spectrum of companies by your decision, not one. [[15.50 hours]] Maybe, I'm sure, someone's been restocked on mining, looted something, and you want to salt it, which I imagine is morally correct, but you can declassify a number of other companies. And if someone's done an analysis somewhere that you can deprive sensitive regions of 6,000 jobs in terms of unemployment, and you say - it's nonsense and all that... Prove it's nonsense. It's not... After all, you have to make decisions based on facts, data, analysis, not emotionally. You have so far decided emotionally, as your colleague Prachař has decided on transport. The result is decay. So I just want to turn myself against what you're saying. And what you said here, you're just talking about something you don't know about, not that we don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u136	Well, thank you, even for keeping time on a point of fact. Now the priority right of the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek and then the Minister of Agriculture. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words on this subject, although in the meantime, when I came forward, a number of things have been resolved. I would like to confirm the words of Minister Babiš that we agreed that there should be an increase in the upper charges to double, except for brown and black coal extracted from the deep, except uranium, oil and gas. For everything else, double. I would first of all like to refer to one inaccurate claim that has been made here, and that is that municipalities are supposed to be affected in some way. I would like to stress that all the preparation of this law took place on one condition that the municipalities receiving money under this law must receive more than they are receiving today after the amendment. That's right, that's how it's always been, that's how it's designed. And one of these channels is that the remuneration will be increased from 100 crowns to 1,000 crowns a year. There is, of course, the problem that the municipalities are affected by mining, which doesn't have the right space, I understand all of it, on the basis of which we suggested that some of the money could go to the edge. This, however, met with a cold response, so we did not put it in the bill. Otherwise, technically, it is true that municipalities are not really a state, the money collected goes, which is mediated by the Czech Mining Authority, directly into the municipal budget, and therefore it cannot appear in the state budget. And that's how the municipalities count on the revenue. This is what I thought it was important to add to this debate here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u138	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade. Before the Minister of Agriculture takes the floor, I have two factual points - first, Mr President of ODS Stanjura and then colleague Kádner once more on the point. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u139	Thank you. I'd like the Minister of Finance to get a sense of the numbers. He said-- now there's 260, it's going to be twice as much, that's 520, and it's going to be from 1. 7. Now, aside from the debate that the Constitutional Court, that taxes and charges are to be imposed on the basis of the law, I will pass. [[unintelligible]] But that's 260 extra a year, if it's times two, and if it's from midterm, it's 130 million extra. But the MIT's budget is plus 500 million. Well, I'd like to explain the contradiction between the numbers. I'm not questioning what the Treasury Secretary said, I'm using his numbers. From 260 to 520, that's double, it's going to be from 1 July, that means it's plus 130 if I say it's half of 260. The draft budget for the MIT in that chapter is plus 500 against 2014. The numbers just don't add up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u140	Okay, thank you. Now, Mr David Kádner's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u141	Thank you, for the last time. I want to thank the Minister for his comments. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, the cold from the side as if it should go either through the county or in the village, we didn't know who it was from. If it's from the Minister of Finance, then you would support my theory that the Minister doesn't really want to talk to the municipalities, because we've already done these debates here, and we wanted to consensually find a solution so that the money really gets as much back as possible to the region and those people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u142	Thank you. Now, the priority right of the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, and then, I hope, we will return to the proper agenda in the detailed debate. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to what has been said here today in the debate and about my Ministry of Agriculture. Of course, I apologized, and I apologized properly for not being able to be here this morning and until the House's afternoon meeting. I had to get in the car late last night because I live near Přerov, where he was a mess until this afternoon, so I also had to work out some things in the morning that had a negative impact on my home. I understand that you can criticize me for not always being here, I am on foreign trips or I have other duties to work and I am always duly sorry, that criticism is justified there, because it is always up to my decision, which has greater priority, whether for example the foreign trip or the specific negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies. But today, I don't really consider the criticism that I'm not here to be kosher and fair in the debate. And if Mr Bendl here, who I don't see here right now, said something about maybe harvesting diabetes, how I supposedly bragged about my Facebook profile, then I already consider it something bordering on a certain - let's say - form of insulting or mocking someone, because if I do these activities, I do them in principle in my spare time and it is at most on the weekend. I would also like to respond a little bit to what the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Kalousek also said when he said that it was okay that I was not here as junior minister, that there were two senior ministers. I must say that I only talked to the Minister of Finance about agriculture in terms of the budget for 2015. And with Mr. Chairman of the Agricultural Committee, Mr. Faltýnek, we do not agree on many things as he or I see agriculture, yet we are looking for a compromise. So I certainly don't think it would work here as President Kalousek suggested. In general, I have to say, because I have many people among the ODS members and the TOP 09 and the Mayors, whom I respect immensely, I have friends there and among them, so I regret the form of this debate, when it really comes from some rational debate, arguments, numbers turn into a plane of personal insult and humiliation of someone who is not here at the moment. Anyway, let's cut to the chase. Several specific things and complaints have been made here, namely that from the state companies Forest of the Czech Republic and Budvar we are raising funds that are not reflected in the income of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. I'll just say two numbers. This year we are transferring CZK 7.3 billion through the founding fund to the state budget. The planned budget for next year's chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture is CZK 18,5 billion. That is, logically, the funds - the 7.3 billion, in the next year 8.5 billion - are also reflected in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. It has also been said from Mr Bendl that there is not enough support for the activities in the woods, the management of the woods. Here I would like to say that we need to look at this from a general context, not just from a national subsidy point of view. The overall picture looks like that in the next five years European funds under the Rural Development Programme will be CZK 660 million per year for forestry, to support new techniques and a method of sound management, plus we have been in PGRLF since next year... [[The minister expects the voices in the room to calm down.]] Plus from PGRLF we have introduced a new grant title for the area again - another CZK 200 million. So I don't think we're forgetting about forestry. On this point, I would also like to point out that when the draft budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture was discussed on the Committee on Agriculture, everyone, as well as the representatives of the opposition, expressed a positive opinion on this proposal, including Mr Bendl, so now I am a little surprised by the criticism here. As far as the issue of animal protection, large livestock and their living conditions is concerned, I must say again, for the next programming period, a chapter on welfare, with the allocation of 600 million crowns per year, where specific things are involved such as raising the laying area for animals, reducing the area that animals must undergo, for example, in breeding boxes on grates, etc., so there are specific things that want to continue to improve and correct this situation. And the last thing that concerns, let's say, savings in the Department of Agriculture. That's not bragging about someone else's feathers. I understand that some things are of a longer-term nature and run, but only this year by our specific measures, we have saved more than 300 million crowns in the Department of Agriculture and in the departments of our subordinate organizations, such as the Forests of the Czech Republic, the State Land Office, will again be able to save hundreds of millions of crowns at the end of the year. So there are specific things that want to continue to improve and correct this situation. [[16.00 hours]] And the last thing that concerns, let's say, savings in the Department of Agriculture. That's not bragging about someone else's feathers. I understand that some things are of a longer-term nature and they run. But only this year we saved more than 300 million crowns in the Department of Agriculture by our specific measures, and in the departments of our subordinate organizations, such as the Forests of the Czech Republic, the State Land Office, there will be savings in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns at the end of the year. So these are specific things that are documented by numbers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u144	Thank you, Minister Jurečka. And now, with a factual remark, Mr František Laudát, and then perhaps we return to the agenda. Please, Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u145	Thank you for the floor. Minister, it is your business to plan, and there is no more important point in the year than your own predictions than the budget for you to be here. So that's your problem. However, it was explained here that perhaps the presence is not that important, because the real Minister of Agriculture sat here and his aide also, so it was not a problem. Anyway, speaking of agricultural chapters, I picked up somewhere... We did a pretty big ad fight here a year ago. You may have noticed our favorite evergreen, the name of the Classa. If the information that was released is true, you didn't compete, so Klasa didn't happen this year. I'm asking if you've missed consumers and anyone in this country that you haven't fired 150 or how many million crowns. It'll be the same for next year. Now you're gonna be competing straight for two years. If it would not be considered to save at all and the support of this brand at least in such outrageous ranges has been abolished, and that would save quite a lot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u146	Good afternoon. I thank Mr Laudát. With a point of fact, now Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u147	Thank you. The Klasy competition for this year was prepared before my arrival at the Ministry, so I could not influence the quality of the assignment. The contest was canceled last week. The funds have practically been saved this year, for the next period, of course, Klasa and I are thinking about what to do next. We have an announcement to make, because we need to identify this support with the European Commission here. So, let's just say these things are open to debate today, as it will be, and we are discussing this with representatives of food producers. So about that much in brief.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u148	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u149	Thank you for the floor. So the Minister of Agriculture explained to us how he still walks here or just apologizes. So I took a quick look. Participation in the vote is 33 percent - and significantly lower than the Prime Minister. I think they pay in every government, if anyone's the most busy, it's the Prime Minister, not the individual minister. I have been trying to discuss a point with the Minister of Agriculture for several months at written interviews, and I have not been able to do so at all. As well as right, welcome to the House, Minister. You've been here for the second time this week, which hasn't happened once last month. I don't know what you're complaining about. It's just you and me. The fact that you're not at a meeting, for example, at a written interview - four times we had to interrupt my written interview on you. Four times! You always planned something else on that Thursday. And I say for myself, if you are at the European Council, that is an entirely acceptable apology, and I never question and criticize anyone when a member of the government goes to the European Council. Everything else is that you chose something other than the House, or that you hid from the Members during the intercessions. I just can't interpret it any other way. And compare your participation in the House with the Prime Minister's participation and compare your work content and your duties with the Prime Minister's participation, and then you have the right to complain here if anyone criticizes when you are not present. Then one day you're here, and you're very upset that we took the liberty of pointing out your very frequent absence from this meeting room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u150	Sorry, now with the factual remark of Mr Bendl, after which Minister Jurečka. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u151	Good day, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the Chamber of Deputies meeting, Minister of Agriculture. We are glad you could make it. So I hope that you will also have the answers to the questions that I have asked here because I asked how much money and where you will take them to support the forestry industry in total, because here in the material you yourself state that the missing funds there will be supplied by roughly CZK 220 million from the unused expenditure of 2014. So I'm sure you'll answer us where. I didn't ask about PGRLF, I'm sure I saw that, the numbers. However, you are really reducing this money to forestry support. That's a). B. You see, Minister, before you became Minister, these financial resources that the Department of Agriculture has today, are 6.5 billion. from the Forests last year, 500 million from Budvar, 6.5 million from the Forests did not have the Ministry of Agriculture in the past, and yet had funding for subsidies. So this could be the money, and it should be the money that should end up in that resort. It's 8.7 billion this year. The crowns you take from the resort and do not return to the resort. She just hasn't been there a penny in two years. Now you have these extra resources from these resorts, and that they would be noticeably visible here, so they are not. Not to mention that there is no clear trend that you would like to support what you call a government programming statement, and I can quote it to you, some issues, but I don't have enough time for that at this point. And when I was talking about abuse, I was talking about animal abuse issues, not wellfare issues, not the issue where, within Europe, you're going to order breeders to have to raise the premises for domestic animals. I've been talking about animals that are being abused that the state is not entitled to, and there's no way that those owners who abuse, take them away, and somehow deal with the situation with them. You have 3 million crowns and you don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u152	I thank Mr Bendl. Now the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u153	Thank you. A brief response to what the President of the ODS, President Stanjura, said. I'm here in the speech I had, very, very, very well, I think, explained why I wasn't here today, and I wasn't upset or upset about it the way you presented it. About what Mr Bendl said. So if we look at the issue of financing the entire forestry sector, of course, there has been a decline in a chapter. And you need to look at it comprehensively. When you were here, Mr. Ambassador, he wasn't just here, I was explaining. We need to look at the support that goes from other operational programmes. The resources from the OPŽP will also go into the woods for farming methods. We only create brand new financial instruments in PGRLF to support the entire forestry sector, credit interest subsidies plus direct credit options. I think, of course, there's always room for debate. This year too, as you know, we have financed some of the national grant titles at the end of the year with regard to the development of the budget according to the current needs in the sector as we have communicated these requirements. I would only really correct and set things right, because this year we are taking away not 8.5 billion, but 7.3 billion this year. from the Forests and from Budvar and next year is the planned contribution - up to 2015 - 8.5 billion. So I guess you've changed things around here. Once again, the funds are logically reflected in this, if the budget is less than 17 billion this year, in the next year 18.5. And the contribution is in this amount, so sometimes you use it - even across the Chamber of Deputies, the expression is used that the budget and the funds do not have bows in it. Of course, I am doing my utmost to increase the budget so that we can support meaningful investment in agriculture. That's what we're trying to do, and I'd be happy to work on it together. And I'm following up on what I actually said that I'm a little surprised when we were having fun at the agricultural committee meeting, so there I think these words, these particular comments should have been made. You're actually alone in your speech, and we can look at the record, and he actually said that you perceive that the budget is going in a positive direction. So thank you so much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u154	Thank you, Minister. Now, with Mr Bendl's point of fact, with his point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u155	Thank you for the floor. I was here, Minister through the President. I was just sitting in the lobby listening, of course, to what you said. That we are discussing individual items here or that we discussed something on the agricultural committee, where I really praised some items, and I praised them here too, I said that somewhere we saved in operating expenses for a long time. But since you weren't here, you probably couldn't hear it. Whoever interpreted what was going on here just told you criticism and didn't tell you that I even praised some things and said that they were long-term, that they were saved in the administration and that I was wondering if it would appear in the programme mainly of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, because there was saved on bureaucratic costs in conjunction with a number of officials about 400 miles. Kroner, and I'd like to see them in individual grant programs. I told you, I don't see the support of small and medium-sized business inside versus big because that's where it goes. Yes, you invest and support more in the food sector for significant large investments, there certainly goes more money. I also asked here about the ponds and what way you want to go, where the funds are to help you debug, clean, etc., even water management as such. There's been a lot more than that. I feel that when we were talking about this on the agricultural committee, there were some critical questions that I said yes on the one hand, I agree with something, it's okay, I like it, but there are a lot of things that I don't like. And once again, I quote to you what I would like you to answer, but I have not yet received the answer, even when you are present. When you write in this material that you may be able to finance investments in the Forests of the Czech Republic in the forests in general from a surplus of management or simply from such an amount. [[Time!]] I don't have time for this, I haven't found it at the moment, but I can show it to you personally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u156	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Stanjura? Mr Stanjura is not reporting, so we will continue with the proper entries. Now another proper application is registered by Mrs Jana Hnyková. aha, sorry, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u157	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me for this intermezzo, but I think it would be a great shame if it didn't sound like a microphone to the Chamber of Deputies at the moment when it finally sounds. Today, the Prague Supreme Court has definitively cleared the former Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of Defense Martin Barták of the accusation that he was doing illegally in one of the arms trades. He has come to his fair trial, but behind it are four years of ruined human life, dragging the media. I would very much like you - and these are sitting here - to think about our actions as prosecutor, judge and executioner in one person, so that we, who sometimes approach very hard and quick judgments only on the basis of superficial accusations, would stop doing such things. It's one of the first major victims of the great anti-corruption revolution. She's had her fair trial. Let's draw a line on how many of these defendants are really gonna be convicted and what was once unleashed here and what is still coming to an end here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u158	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, with Mrs Hnyková's proper application. The honourable Member is pleased that it has reached it. Please, madam, you have the floor. Enjoy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good afternoon. I would return from agriculture to social services, and I would follow up on my colleagues Vilímec and Beznoska. My speech will not really be long, nor will I make an amendment, I have only one question, for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mrs Marksová and for the Minister of Finance Babiš. When discussing the budget in the Committee on Social Policy, Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I asked Deputy Minister Martin Kučera how it is possible that in the chapter Transfery under Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, is only an amount of 7 billion. 850 miles. Crowns. For your explanation, who is not working on the Social Committee, this is the amount of social services subsidies that we have made in the amendment to the Social Services Act, which we have transferred to the county in the autumn of this year. The Deputy Minister told me that they were given as much as the Minister of Finance gave them. At the earliest opportunity, I asked Minister Babiš how it was possible that the Ministry of Finance gave only this amount to this subsidy. He answered me - he's not paying attention now, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u160	Please wait, Madame. The Minister is already watching you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u161	I'll wait for the ministers to figure it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u162	I'll ask the Minister if he'd be kind enough to pay attention to the lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u163	Thank you, Mr President. So the minister replied that he gave 7.2 billion to the subsidies. and an increase of 750 miles. CZK for salaries for social workers and workers in direct care. I'm asking where the difference is with this money. The government has declared that so much money will go into social services this year, and this year it is going to fund 7 billion. 350 miles. At a deficit of 100 billion. is the amount of 250 million. maybe negligible for some, but this amount is not negligible for social facilities. After my experience in social services work, I understand what will happen and what impact it will have on individual devices. I remind you that in the autumn months we approved the amendment to Act 108/2006, where we transferred this funding to the region. Simply and simply, the regions will miss these funds and they will have to take it from another resort. If we look at this from the position of individual social services organisations, there will be no development but only survival. Where are the guarantees that we have heard here that, during the coalition's reign, it will go on subsidies to social services as much as it did this year? And that's no glory. When increasing the salary by 3,5 percent for all workers and social services workers, you did not take this into account at all in the proposed budget for social services subsidies, so it will have to save and save again. And as I know the situation, the social services employees who have joined in after years may also take away what has been added to them. Elderly and disabled have always been saved in this resort and will be saved well and again. These people don't fight back because they're old and sick. So I'm going to go back to the very beginning of my speech, and I'm going to ask both representatives of the ministries to comment on this, and they're going to tell us how much money is actually going to be and how much funding is going to go into those social services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u164	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Another duly registered member is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u165	Thanks again for the word. Originally I wanted to start positive and I wanted to express my joy that there is a Minister of Agriculture Jurečka among us after a long time, but in the meantime unfortunately he left again, so without the positive information. I'd like to say a little bit about the Ministry of Environment's budget. At this point, I have no choice but to state that environmental protection or, in particular, environmental protection is the last place for the ruling coalition YES, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL. I think we are all aware that the proposed budget proposed by Minister Babiš is 1,100 billion. Kč. A thousand hundred billion crowns. The budget of the Ministry of Environment adjusted for European Union money is 3.3 billion. Kč. The government coalition tells us, through the mouth of Minister Babiš, that it wants to spend CZK 1,100 billion, that is one trillion CZK 100 billion. And for the environment and for its protection, he wants to give 1.1 trillion crowns only 0.3 percent, that's three tenths of a percent, that's three million percent for mathematics to protect nature in the Czech Republic. I think the number tells us pretty clearly what the government coalition thinks about environmental protection. Of course, I asked the Committee on the Environment why this is so, and the Deputy Minister of the Environment said the words - I will quote: We were unable to negotiate a better position. I'm sorry for the inability of the Ministry of Environment at the moment, and I think I'm saying this honestly. You know, I would still understand if we were talking about budget 2015, but similar figures in this material are presented to us by the government coalitions for the following years, for 2016, for 2017. And if you look at that budget, and the graph you see here on page five of the Ministry of Environment budget, I'd like to draw attention to other figures. In 2009, it was issued for environmental protection for the Ministry of Environment budget, cleared for the money from the European Union, over 4 billion. Kč. In 2010 too. Then there was a crisis, there was a reduction, and we don't get to such numbers even in the following years. If I put it exactly, 2009 was 4.6 billion. CZK, 2010 over 4 billion. CZK, then there was a crisis, and in 2015 3.2 billion. CZK 3,2 billion in 2016 CZK 3.2 billion in 2017 Kč. This is 25% lower than in 2009 and 2010. The money we're talking about here is money for environmental protection, for example, for operating or for the wages of environmental workers who work in the field, who ensure the real protection of the environment. I think we all know that the average salary of a university-educated worker in the field of environmental protection is CZK 23,000 gross, and that it is really just the hearts. Again, I am very sorry that the government coalition is not willing to invest more in environmental protection. That the Ministry of the Environment budget is just 3.3 billion. On the other hand, we spend about 1.3 billion a year on green diesel. CZK and for biofuels 1.5 billion. Kč. A large proportion of these billions are flowing into the finance minister's companies. And I would like to warn you, Minister Babiš, that if you don't want to protect the environment, if we don't have healthy soil, clean water and air for you, your fields won't grow even that rape oil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u166	I thank Mr Kučer. With another proper application, Mr František Vácha is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, the expenditure on Czech science is divided or should be distributed correctly according to the results achieved by the institutions and go from the state budget to eight chapters. However, only three chapters are added to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. In this light, our committee adopted a resolution at its 10th meeting, which should ensure that binding indicators of research, development and innovation of all the chapters of the state budget in which this item is present are also discussed from the next state budget. And why I'm pointing that out. Act on Support for Research, Experimental Development and Innovation No 130/2002 Coll. sets as one of the binding indicators of the relevant budget chapter so-called institutional support for research organisations according to the evaluation of their results. According to Section 7 of this Act, this aid is distributed on the basis of - and I quote - an assessment of the results achieved by it so that its contribution to the total amount of institutional support for state budget research organisations in a given year corresponds to its contribution to the value of the results of all research organisations achieved over the past five years according to the evaluation carried out annually by the Research, Development and Innovation Council, which in other words means how much good results you have, you will get so much money. However, the State Budget proposal for 2015 under institutional support for research organisations according to the evaluation of their achievements in the various chapters managing research, development and innovation expenditure does not correspond, does not correspond to the results achieved, and was drawn up only on the basis of the personal negotiations of different entities with the Ministry of Finance. Such a budgetary procedure - the state budget - is incompatible with Act No. 130/2002 Sb. Minister of Finance, are you aware that the budget submitted by you is drawn up in violation of the laws of the Czech Republic? It is true that, even in the past, there has not been a full distribution of funds strictly according to the evaluation of research organisations, but partly according to the so-called. the medium term perspective. However, at least part of the measurable results were always redistributed according to the results. For 2015, however, the budget was made up solely of the form of what it takes... [[He's turning to a stenographer.]] I don't know if you have the word out in the tapes...? [[Yes, we can do this.]] But just who gets what out, or in a language that you may understand better -- who's lobbying for the Ministry of Finance. Whoever digs it up has it. Just for illustration, at least the Ministry of Education lobbied for a unit of scientific performance, mostly the Ministry of Agriculture. Although the share of the Ministry of Education's scientific performance in total Czech science is 63.27 percent, it is allocated only 55.11 percent of the funds from the state budget for 2015. Dear Minister, I would like to ask what the Minister of Education must do to make the same benefits for you as the closer Minister of Agriculture. We've just heard from the Minister of Agriculture that if he's talking to you, he's only talking to you about the budget. Perhaps it is a pity that the Minister of Education Chládek is not here. Maybe if he had a garden and he was growing potatoes or sugar beets there, and he let you know in an inconspicuous way, maybe he'd be able to dig up more for the Ministry of Education. [[16.30 hours]] However, it is alarming that the administration of the Government Council on Research, Development and Innovation from ignorance or perhaps deliberately paralyzes the current evaluation of Czech science. In order to be able to form a state budget for science according to the evaluation of performances, i.e. under Law 130, the Council of the Government and its administration must select a contractor to carry out the calculation. This didn't happen. It was supposed to be at the beginning of November. That didn't happen. The selection procedure may have been botched on purpose, so that it could not be broken down in the future by measurable results, but only by lobbying. Dear Minister, dear coalition, when you like to use the concepts of waste in the past period, tunneling, etc., are you aware that the current inaction of the Government Council's responsible bodies deliberately paves the way for a 100-million-dollar tunnel for public funds? Again, I consider it unacceptable that the state budget, although perhaps for someone in such marginal areas as science, research, should be contrary to the laws of the Czech Republic. I originally prepared two options of amendments that would somehow address this situation and at least partially correct this injustice. One would mean increasing the items to science, research and innovation of individual chapters so that seven damaged chapters would be awarded to science as well as to their objective evaluation as the Ministry of Agriculture, which has lobbied the most. But that would mean a transfer of 3.5 billion crowns. Yes, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, 3.5 billion of which would go into the budget of the Ministry of Education 3 billion. You see how much the Ministry of Education has been deprived of in this system. The second variant of my amendment would reduce the budget for the science of individual chapters in favour of the Ministry of Education, so that everyone would get the same, without having to move 3.5 billion into these seven chapters. Both of these amendments would merely provide a remedy and would bring the amounts into balance by changing the individual budgets so that for each of the beneficiaries under Section 6 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))) (v)))))))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v) In the end, however, I decided not to submit a single variant of the amendment, either because we were prevented from discussing all the chapters of the State Science Budget in the school committee, to compare expenditure between the various chapters and to adopt a resolution. However, I firmly believe that this will not happen again and that my contribution will cause responsible members of the government and their assistants to propose the next budget under the applicable law and according to objectively assessed merit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u168	Thank you, Mr Vách. Another duly registered member is Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u169	Good afternoon, Dear Government, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues. I will respond immediately to what has been said here about begging and lobbying etc. I wasn't there, I don't really want to comment, but I'm gonna talk in that context. Ms Černochová and the Minister of Defence have already made very detailed comments on the Ministry of Defence's budget chapter. Thank you for that, and I will not repeat what has already been said here. However, I would like to comment on the issue of defence financing in a few words on a more general level. The motto of my performance is that modern society cannot live on the assumption of eternal peace, but must constantly consider the prospects of its vulnerability and defence. Our Israeli friends say that in times of danger, they prepare for a period of peace and quiet, and when they reach peace and quiet, they are very consistently preparing for a time when they are in danger. One of the essential parts of our statehood is the country's ability to defend itself effectively and to constantly create the prerequisites for this one of the most important tasks of our politicians to be fulfilled. The defence and security of the state and its inhabitants is a condition for the duration and sovereignty of the state and it is also a prerequisite for citizens to enjoy their rights and freedoms within the territory of the State. As the events of recent years have shown, closer or further away from our borders, our society is facing and will face the threats of the present world. I'm talking about both standard threats and threats that we don't know much about at the moment, we're learning. In this context, I highlight the issue of terrorism, the fight against terrorism and cyber security issues. Our ability to identify these particular dangers, as I have already said, is extremely limited. This, of course, and that is what I see, is also related to increasing the general defence readiness of our state. Your contributions repeatedly referred to the question of eating money, the demands for raising pensions, investment in schools, education, investment in transport infrastructure, environmental protection, agriculture, there was talk of beet and potatoes etc. etc. I understand, yes, of course, all of this is necessary and necessary, but if we are unable to defend these values effectively, sooner or later it may prove that we can lose them and all the investments of the funds that have been made are definitely lost. In this context, a small observation on the means and investigations effectively spent. Many austerity measures, which at first glance and in the first stage of their effect in the past appeared to be effective and often were more effective than effective, have often proved to be unsystemic and disadvantageous over time, in long-term effects eventually triggered the need for redress and other investments, in order beyond originally saved expenditure. One such small example is for example. the situation around ammunition warehouses. I am convinced, or - this country has a professional army at its disposal, which certainly does not disgrace us and, as far as possible, performs its tasks first and foremost. The only question is whether its current form is sufficient and how, in terms of both qualitative and quantitative terms, the army and other components related to defence and security will develop, thus by our insurance against the aforementioned security threats. Their development is then dependent on the funds allocated to them by the legislators and how the Department of Defence will deal with them. In this context, I want to assure you that the Defence Committee is working very well. He has found some consensus on how he will communicate with the Ministry of Defence, and the way the Ministry of Defence manages the funds allocated is basically improving within these activities. At this point, therefore, I do not propose any amendments, I merely appeal to your perception of all the contexts of the state budget's spending pages and of which expenditure items you see as priority items and which are less priority. In my opinion, the nation's ability to defend its country is a priority number one. On this occasion, I also appeal that the agreed and declared amount of expenditure for the defence resort should at least be maintained at the same level and in the agreed amount for the years 2016 and 2017, or better, so that the possibility of increasing it is discussed with the necessary seriousness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u170	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, now with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u171	Mr President, what was said here by Mr Vácha about the preparation of the budget for research, development and innovation following Act 130 on the promotion of research, development and innovation sounded as if the state budget had been prepared against the law. I would like to stress what was repeated here many times by the President of the parliamentary club, where my colleague Vácha belongs. This House is a sovereign, and at the moment it adopts the State Budget Act, it is, of course, a law which, at a time when it may seem to be at odds with something, will apply only from a time point of view this State Budget Act, not any hypothetical assumptions. [[16.40 hours]] Law 130 in that mechanical construction, as it was once adopted at the time of Topolánkův's government, assumed that politicians would renounce the role of considering how to deal effectively with funds. The law in that part was criticised by international audit, and I think it is a good thing that the preparation of the budget is taking place with a balance sheet and a reflection on the effectiveness of the sums spent. It is a completely different question to discuss meritorically how individual items are spent there, but the reference to the mechanical formula would definitely not be correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u172	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. Before I give the floor to Minister Daniel Herman with priority rights, I have one more point in fact by Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u173	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to the previous speaker. Of course you're right, you can do whatever you want here, but I think the state budget is to be prepared according to applicable laws, first of all. Two. If you find any public European money there or someone starts auditing it, it starts to line up in the template of applicable laws, and these are the things where everything can fall out completely, that it is unduly pumped, misused. I can't imagine if you have money sent somewhere in violation of the law, how do you want it to sit auditively and from other perspectives? And to illustrate, I was inspired by a performance by my colleague Kučera. You're approving the budget here, and now I'm talking to the perceptive ones who are at the club YES. You've heard devastating criticisms about the behavior of Minister of Finance Kalousek. As far as the environment is concerned, you, too, will raise your hand for the poor budget of the environment. And it wasn't us, but I think it was the statistical office that compiled a detailed analysis and summation of environmental expenditure from 1990 to 2013. Please note that it has come to their attention that the Czech Republic, as a state, invested most in the environment in 2013, means fiscal consolidation at a time of economic depression, at a time of major problems. So you're cutting science, research, innovation, the environment, so keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u174	I thank Mr Laudát. With a point of fact, Mr Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u175	Thank you. I agree with Mr. Zlatuška. We're a sovereign, but, of course, not all of us here are gonna study the state budget for every number. This means that we need to realize that what is presented here is mostly thoughtlessly waved away, and that is why I wanted to remind you that the money for science is divided into RVOs according to a key other than that imposed on us by Act No. 130. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u176	Thank you, Mr Vách. Now with priority rights, Minister Daniel Herman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u177	Mr President, colleagues, I want to read the amendment to Chapter No. 355 - Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. The proposal is already implemented in the system under No. 1741. Jan Bartošek, a colleague of mine, led him there. I am applying to this amendment. I suggest we reduce chapter number one. 355 Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes under the budget heading current expenditure - salaries of employees. Item 6211 salaries of civil servants in administrative offices to reduce item 28 million. 690 thousand. 44 CZK for 14 mil. 27,000. 571 CZK for 14 mil. 662 thousand. 473 CZK. That's a 14-mile cut. 27,000. 571 CZK to transfer to the government's budget reserve. The proposed budget of Chapter 355 is intended to maintain the number of employees of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes under heading 6219 - 130 - and to increase the number of employees under heading 6211 from 127 to 157. According to the officially submitted intention presented in recent weeks by the management of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, the number of employees in the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes should be reduced by 22 employees in 2015 and used by the state budget for their severance payments. This mass dismissal was not notified to the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic when drawing up the draft budget in the summer of this year. The proposed reduction is intended to prevent the inefficient use of state resources, since the management of the Security Forces Archive intends to do the same, i.e. digitization of documents and the creation of accounting databases, which they have so far provided on the basis of the tasks imposed by Law No. 181/2007 Sb. staff members of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes to be admitted to the archives of 30 persons. Chapter No 355 The Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes now has a total number of 257 systems, with a total of 14 vacant posts. For this reason too, it is therefore unnecessary and economically uneconomic to increase the number of tables by further systematic locations. This proposal is in line with Mr Fiedler's proposal, which was also put forward a moment ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u178	Thank you, Minister Herman. The Minister of the Interior is Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on a few questions by Mrs Černochová. I will begin the number of members of the Fire Rescue Corps and Police of the Czech Republic. In the following years we assume that 40,270 members will serve within the Police of the Czech Republic and 9,500 in the Fire Rescue Corps. This is the situation for 2015. Then we have the ambition to ask for an increase of about 150 police officers and 60 firefighters. So this will still be discussed in the future. I would just like to say that we discussed all these questions on the committee responsible. All I can do is repeat what I said about him. The next question is whether we have secured funds of 3,5 per cent for civil servants and 5 per cent for police and Fire Rescue Corps members for next year's budget. I can guarantee what I said on the committee that this is the case. This means that, for next year, these wage resources are covered. On the issue of reduction in social benefits, pension and others by CZK 650 million. As on the committee, I can say that in the past this chapter has been overvalued by about 1.1 billion. and in this budget the situation is settled, which means we are absolutely convinced that the amount declared there is sufficient. Research, innovation, shortening by about 200 million. Crowns. We said there was a mistake, and during the discussion with the Office of the Government, we received 150 miles for this year. CZK, which will be used in this chapter for next year, and at the same time we have an agreement that the budget of the Office of the Government will be financed over the next year by the remaining 50 million. Crowns. As regards the medium-term prospects for 2016 and 2017, we know that they are undervalued and we are ready to negotiate with the Ministry of Finance right after the approval of this budget. We know that there is a lack of funds, how these perspectives are allocated, and of course we have ambition to change them. [[16.50 hours]] In terms of wages, we will need funding for the level of wages for 2015, forecasting an increase of this wage for 2016 by one percent. Furthermore, we have an ambition with the Ministry of Finance to act primarily in the field of investment, which we find very undervalued in these perspectives. We have already informed colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. Madam President, on all these questions I have yet to instruct that the detailed documents, including the tables and individual financial data, be processed, which will be sent to your parliamentary e-mail within three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u180	Thank you, Minister Chovanc, for his answer. Now with priority rights Mr. Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening or good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Several times in the last hour or hour there has been a concern about how it will be with the environment and its financing in the next budget. I would only slightly pause very briefly for the fact that it seems to me at least hypocritical to ask about this from people from political parties who unfortunately allowed the Czech Republic to arrive irreversibly in 2013 from European funds by approximately 7 billion. There's nothing we can do about them, and at least five to six billion of them. it was environmental. Six billion, then. We arrived in 2013, we returned them to Brussels and could end up in projects into the environment. I came to the Ministry at the end of January this year and faced the current threat that this year we will be returning approximately 11 billion. CZK from the Operational Programme Environment. I don't want to post now because we're still doing some last digits, but I dare say that we've cut this amount dramatically, I don't want to say the number yet, but I think it's going to be surprising at the end of this year. So I want to assure you that I'm doing everything I can to make sure that I'm not afraid of the word "working" to get as much money into the Czech environment as possible. And at this point, when it comes to the Czech budget, i.e. the funds that go there from the state budget, I have been raised by the private sphere for quite a long time by asking for more money only if I believe that we are able to use the existing ones effectively. Which, I'm sure, hasn't been the custom here in years past. That means we stopped projects for hundreds of millions of crowns, totally necessary, into IT projects and others. And I want to make sure that I too, when I am convinced for the next few years that the real environment, such as the Czech Environmental Inspection and other areas, needs the money and we cannot help ourselves from my own resources, then I will come to the Minister of Finance with confidence and try to convince him that we need more money that we will not be able to reach today. But until then, I've always been used to helping myself, so I'll keep acting like one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u182	Thank you, Minister Brabco. Now, with Mr Kučera's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u183	Thank you for the floor. I listened very carefully to the Minister's words, particularly to the sentence where he said that he would not ask for the money until he was convinced that he would be able to use it effectively. According to the budget and the figures it presents to us in that perspective, it will not be able to do so in 2015 or in 2016 or 2017. And then he won't be Minister of the Environment anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u184	I thank Mr Kučer for his point of view. Mr Karel Šídlo, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u185	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, good afternoon, fellow Members. I am presenting a brief justification for the amendment that I submit on the draft State budget for 2015 and is registered under House document 1753. The reason for the proposed structural change in the budget of Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport is an increase in the number of Railway Office employees by 16 systematic functional posts, which raise demands for the increasing scope of work of the Railway Office staff and relate to the adoption of amendments to the Railway Act and the adoption of new European legislation. Since 2004, there have been significant changes in the Authority's obligations which have led to a significant and extensive increase in their activities. I took the liberty of stating in the explanatory memorandum in the above House document some of these activities, which are accurately quoted there. Thanks to this constantly increasing range of agendas, the situation has become unbearable in the long term and is often negatively reflected in the control activity over rail transport safety. In practice, there are situations where the Railway Authority receives initiatives that are usually addressed with regard to its capacity by simply requesting an explanation. As a general rule, the submission of explanations leads to a zero finding. If this amendment is approved, the implementation of the amendment will ensure a substantial increase in rail transport safety through regular checks in the form of state surveillance of carriers and railway operators, in particular by increasing unannounced state surveillance. Increase in repressive measures, fines for offences and administrative offences. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter The specialization of professional staff will increase their expertise in the area. Effectiveness of the administrative management process, including the use of closer cooperation with the applicant. Finally, the active involvement of employees in the field of applicants for verification of the real facts presented in internal regulations and requests for consultation. Finally, allow me once again to apply to House document 1753. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u186	I thank Mr Šídl. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Snopek. [[A reminder from the diaper.]] Excuse me, Mr. Šidl. Yes, I'll admit you're short. Thank you. Mr Václav Snopek now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u187	Mr President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I am signing up for the amendment to the Act on the State Budget for 2015. The changeling design was inserted into the system under number 1752. In it I propose to add to Chapter 327 Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic for cross-cutting indicator of expenditure on research, development and innovation of 355 million. Crowns. I propose to cover this increase with a reserve in the chapter of the state budget 398 of the General Treasury under heading 253900. A brief statement of reasons. The financing of the space activities of the Czech Republic in relation to the European Space Agency, ESA, is ensured in accordance with Czech Government Resolution No. 282 of 20 April 2011 in two planes. The first is a mandatory member contribution of the Czech Republic to ESA of 225 million. and 80 miles. CZK for optional ESA programmes focusing on scientific objectives and being financed from the budget chapter 333 of the State Budget by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Secondly, expenditure on optional ESA programmes focusing on programmes for the Czech industry is covered by budget chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport, so far 90 million are provided by the Ministry of Transport for 2015. Crowns. [[17,00 hours]] However, this maximum possible amount is at the expense of other activities of the Ministry of Transport, as zero is included in the research, development and innovation item as in last year's bill. This unbearable situation arose despite the fact that the Government resolution 282 of April 2011 granted the Ministry of Transport the status of coordinator of the space activities of the Czech Republic and ordered the Minister of Finance to cooperate with the Coordination Board of the Ministry of Transport on issues relating to their scope, i.e. funding. If we compare budget expenditures for research, development and innovation of resorts whose activities the Ministry of Transport coordinates in space activities, for example the Ministry of Education should have an amount of CZK 17 226 663 255 for 2015 and the Ministry of Industry and Trade has an amount of CZK 2,840 585 333 in the same section of the draft budget. ESA activities with potential for further development of the Czech Republic industry in accordance with the national space plan require a significant increase in contributions from the Czech Republic to optional ESA projects. The implementation of these projects in individual optional programmes represents a contribution from the Czech Republic amounting to 355 million for 2015. Kč. However, the Ministry of Transport has only 90 million to cover this contribution. CZK, and that's from our own sources. The Czech Republic is thus resigning to the efforts of previous governments to increase the share of innovative processes in the application of state-of-the-art technologies acquired in the field of space research and in the aviation industry using industry, transport, agriculture, as well as other resorts. It is also worth considering in the future whether to consider the creation of a National Space Agency with a fixed chapter in the state budget. But I guess that's another meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u188	Thank you, Mr Snopek. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. [[Mr Klašek, before the speech of Mr Kaňkovsky, asks for a factual comment on his speech.]] Oh, sorry, sorry. With a factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Klaška. Oh, after. prosit. With proper application Vít Kaňkovský. Then Mr Klaška and Mrs Fischerová's factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u189	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sign up for the amendment that I have put into the system under number 1750. This amendment is tabled with the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets by Mr Klaška and concerns the transfer of funds under Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Its main objective is to support the development and restoration of a material technical basis for social services. As part of the preparation of the State budget for 2015 and the medium-term outlook for 2016 and 2017, only 27.44 million were designated for the ISPROFIN 113310 MPSV programme, i.e. in support of the material technical base in social services. CZK for one every financial year. This allocation gives only a minimal State instrument, i.e. in this case the MPSV, for support and assistance in addressing the most urgent needs of providers of residential social services in the area of investment. I would just like to remind you, for example, that in 2009, nearly 400 miles were provided in this ISPROFIN programme. Kč. It was similar in 2010 and still in 2011 it was 223 million. Kč. But then, unfortunately, there was a jump humiliation of the financial allocation for this program. Unfortunately, the continuing trend of decreasing support for development and restoration of the material technical base of social services is ongoing. In particular, it is to support homes for seniors and homes with a special regime, to purchase new low-capacity facilities such as community homes that meet the individual needs of clients, as well as to deal with the often very unhappy situation of the necessary facilities, such as asylum houses and staff of various destinations. [[with a focus]] In addition to the construction of new capacities, subsidies for individual actions from this programme are aimed in particular at the reconstruction and modernisation of existing capacities providing services, the care of persons with severe injury or full dependence on the assistance of another natural person, persons with reduced self-sufficiency due to age, disability, but also social exclusion, and the restoration of additional assets necessary for their operation. At the moment, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs records 41 applications for investment grants with a total amount of requirements for almost 1.5 billion. Kč. Without financial support from the State, most of the founders of residential facilities are not able to ensure at the desired level and in the required quality the operation and basic activities required by the Social Services Act, nor to renew, modernise and develop their facilities. And here it has to be said that despite the great effort of operators themselves and their founders to look for funds for this purpose, as can be said. In the proposed budget for 2015, an increase in Chapter 313 of the MPSV was not agreed in the framework of the inter-ministerial negotiations to increase the specific transfer indicator to promote reproduction of property to non-state actors in the social field, namely the programme ISPROFIN 113310. Therefore, for first aid for 2015, we propose to ensure an increase in financial allocation to this programme by moving the amount of 200 million. CZK within the expenditure page of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We have tried to make these proposed movements sensitive enough not to interfere with financing other important areas, and they also reflect a positive trend in unemployment, which has already been said here today, which, hopefully, will have an ongoing trend next year. I firmly believe that for the years to come, we will be able to find the way to an absolute increase in funding for this issue. Demographic developments, but also changes in society, are in charge if we do not want our social services to deteriorate significantly in some areas. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be very pleased if you would support our amendment at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u190	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. Mr Klaška, then Mrs Fischerová, after whom Mr Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, I would like to support the words of my colleague Kaňkovský, who has just tabled an amendment to you here. I would like to say again that this is an amendment within the framework of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This is a transfer of funds in favour of the Development and Restoration Programme, a material technical basis for social services, to which only EUR 27.44 million has come. CZK, which is a great deal of disproportion against the past, when, as you have heard, hundreds of millions of crowns have been allocated to this program regularly every year. And it is also in disproportion with requests that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs records in the aggregate amount of requirements of 1.5 billion. Kč. Therefore, with this sensitive move, we are trying to propose a solution to the remediation of the requirements of this whole sphere. I, too, would like to thank you for your support for this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u192	Thank you, Mr Klašek. With another factual remark by Mrs Jana Fischerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u193	Have a nice and pleasant good evening. I will now turn my eyes to the Minister of Finance, because throughout the day we are listening to a second reading debate to prepare the budget bill for 2015. Dear Minister, I am intrigued to listen to the individual contributions made by Members or Ministers that, in fact, there is an increase in employees directly at ministries in each Ministry's 2015 forecast. [[Noise in the hall.]] I wonder if it is any other way than that there is an increase in some ministry, because in your February 2014 government programming declaration, you have that the 2015 budget will be drawn up so that there will actually be a reduction in the mandatory spending on the operation of individual ministries. But perhaps it is also because you want to reduce unemployment and you have also found a way to deal with unemployment in this way. Thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u194	I thank Mrs Fischerová. With another factual remark, Mr František Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u195	Thank you. I would like to sign up and support Mr Stanjura, Mr Laudát and Mr Sed's amendments under number 1751 and Mr Snopek under number 1752, which is the support of ESA, i.e. support for research. This may sound like a conflict of interest, but from my own experience, I know that our scientists are using the European Space Agency for their research. And I don't want to brag, but some of my samples were flying into orbit through this agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u196	Thank you, Mr Vách. Another duly signed up is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a serious lack of state budget. It concerns insufficient support for the restoration of cultural monuments. The problem lies in the approved Partnership Agreement between the Czech Republic and the European Union. On the basis of this agreement, UNESCO monuments, national cultural monuments and monuments in urban and rural monuments will be supported. The other 40 grand. cultural monuments will not be supported by the European Union's money. It is therefore necessary to address the restoration of these monuments from national sources. There is no need to create any new programmes, but to strengthen the existing programmes, which have reached the very limit of meaningful existence by reducing expenditure annually. I therefore propose to strengthen the Ministry of Culture chapter by 300 miles. The programme for the regeneration of urban conservation and urban conservation zones and the Programme for the promotion of restoration of cultural monuments through municipalities with extended scope, as well as the chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development in the indicator to strengthen regional development and tourism by 100 million. on the Rural Recovery and Development Programme, exclusively for the restoration of cultural monuments. I have tabled this proposal in the Committee on Budgets and it has supported it. I would like to thank all my colleagues who have done so, and I would like to ask the others if they would support this proposal at the third reading, because I believe that we are a cultural nation and that every cultural nation should support the restoration of cultural monuments and not turn its back on them. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. With another proper application, Mr Ludvík Hovorka is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u199	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to make an amendment concerning Chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. First, I will explain why, and then I will make an amendment. I learned from my fellow engineers that the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing is preparing a change in the price decree for the sale of Czech technical standards. Basically, this decree is intended to increase the technical standards and access to the database of this office by 100 percent. This information is communicated on the Office's website regarding the amendment of the price decree for the sale of Czech technical standards. Here it is stated: "We inform you that when preparing the Czech Republic's budget for 2015, the Ministry of Finance made a request for an increase in state budget revenues from the sale of technical standards in order to maintain the state budget deficit presented by the Czech Republic. [[hereinafter referred to as MF]] This request was reflected in the Czech Government resolution. The proposed changes to the price order will consist, on the one hand, in shortening the period of access to the reading of technical standards from one year to six months and, on the other, in repealing the unlimited printing of technical standards together with the introduction of a limit of 1000 pages for an amount of CZK 3,500. The objective of the change in price policy in the field of technical standards is to ensure higher revenue from the sale of standards while maintaining an environment and a system that is well known to users of technical standards, while at the same time setting a sustainable change that will affect as little as possible each of the customers, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The changes described above, of course, may lead to an increase in administration and costs for some users, but the above changes can be considered an acceptable compromise in relation to the requirement of MF." All I would add to this is that I think that the Czech Republic retains a certain advantage in the fact that we have people who know technical standards and that we should not gamble with this knowledge and should not make it difficult for companies to access technical standards. Because it is in the interests of the Czech Republic, it is in the interest of the economy that entrepreneurs comply with technical standards, because it retains some advantage over developing countries etc. For this reason, I think it would be good that the price for access to the printing of technical standards and for these technical standards should not be increased. Based on negotiations held at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Trade reportedly included 50 million in the budget. CZK from the increase of own revenues, and this will actually increase technical standards, respectively. to reduce access to reading standards from originally one year for the price of CZK 3,500 to just six months, i.e. de facto, if you translate it, an increase of 100 percent. So I would like to propose one amendment to consider, which would maintain the original approach for one year for the price of CZK 3,500, with the MIT in Chapter 322 having to receive CZK 50 million. more crowns, i.e. increase in non-investment income, non-investment received transfers from public budgets at central level by plus 50 million. koruna, i.e. increase on the income side. And on the other hand, it would be a reduction in own-activity revenue and the contribution of surplus organisations with direct relations of less than 50 million. Crowns. I believe that this is a matter that I duly justified, and that this is in favour of our engineers, our economy having the advantage it has so far, and that we should not complicate the approach of entrepreneurs, the approach of companies to Czech technical standards, because it is in our interest that everything should be done according to standards and in order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u200	I thank Mr Hovorka. Before I give the floor to Mr Jiří Koubek, whom I hereby invite to the microphone, I have two apologies - first of all, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý apologizes today from 17.30 for work reasons and further apologizes from 18.30 Mr Václav Zemek for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to Amendment 1740, which you will find in your system and which Mrs Markéta Adamová has read there. I will therefore allow myself to sign up for this amendment. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] This is Mrs Ing's amendment. Markéta Adamová and Mgr Jiří Koubek on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2015, House print 331. Firstly, we demand an increase in the expenditure of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the indicator of other expenditures -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u202	I'm so sorry, Mr. Ambassador, please continue when the House of Honor is quieted down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u203	Other expenditure on the security of the tasks of the resort point B.III. 386 Drug policy programme by CZK 1,500 000. Secondly, the reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 301 of the Office of the President of the Republic and CZK 1,500 000 in the indicator of other purchases budget item 5173 travel domestic and foreign. Let me briefly justify this proposal. In a situation where the President of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman, in his foreign travels, often defends only his own views, which are not in line with the foreign policy of the Czech Republic represented by the Government of the Czech Republic, we do not consider the amount of budget funds for the President's foreign journeys to be adequate. President Miloš Zeman, in his foreign travels, opposes our obligations arising from membership of international institutions, such as NATO and the European Union, in connection with the situation in Ukraine. Foreign travels are invited, including reimbursement of expenses for their wives and wives, by one of the closest colleagues of President Vladimír Putin Vladimír Jakunin or departing from a foreign official visit to a private airline. Regardless of the fact that he referred to his visit to the People's Democratic Republic of China as an inspiration for stabilizing society. We believe that President Miloš Zeman has already proved many steps during his foreign trips that it is rather harmful to the reputation of the Czech Republic and its citizens in the countries visited and within the European Union and NATO Member States. It is therefore in the interests of the Czech Republic that the President's travels should be restricted. The amount of CZK 1 500 000 from Chapter 301 of the Office of the President of the Republic of the budget item 5173 travel domestic and foreign we propose to allocate to Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to the budget item other expenditure on the security of the tasks of the Ministry point B.III. 386 Drug policy programme. We would very much appreciate it if the transfer of funds from the President's foreign and domestic travel chapter were used to strengthen the prevention programme against smoking and, in particular, alcohol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u204	I thank Mr Koubek. Another duly registered member is Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about a chapter in the Ministry of Health's budget, which, as we know, is not discussed too much, because the main money that flows through the health system is two orders higher, because it comes from a public health insurance system that we are not talking about today. So there are a number of chapters in the budget of the Ministry of Health, which is somewhere between 5 and 6 billion, that have nothing to do with the provision of health care, but rather about the organisational and administrative matters that stand over the health sector, including supervision. And here is one small thing that deserves to be mentioned, although I will not submit an amendment to it, but in any case it is worth mentioning that there is about CZK 60 million, which the Ministry receives in addition to the development of personnel security for some agendas. This personnel security concerns about 60 people, which, with the number of people in the Ministry, which is fluctuating between 500... about 500 employees, is certainly a serious strengthening of the Ministry of Health and is worth exploring where the strengthening will be used. Some of this money will go to strengthen people at the Institute of Health Informatics and Statistics, where a working group on methodological issues about computer science and around health insurance has been created, and here it is an increase completely in place, because we lack an office against a number of developed countries for pricing in health care, without which the distribution of those more than 250 billion crowns in the public health insurance system is very problematic, essentially since the creation of public health insurance, and despite all attempts to improve it... There has been a shift, but it is still not what it would have been, and the constant comments from health and care operators on the fact that there are remunerations that are very uneven between individual health establishments, for individual performances, for individual health insurance companies and for outsiders and indices that appreciate individual regions show huge differences. So there's a part of those people who are going to go and start building a new office under the guise of the Institute of Health Informatics and Statistics, so that's very, very valuable, although I have to say that these are institutions that have about 200 professionals in our size, so there's still a long way to go, but health is very worthwhile. And here I would therefore advocate that the Ministry's budget be strengthened in the future. On the other hand, part of those workers who will be strengthened will go into the area of control. That there is a need to tighten control over health insurance companies, there is no doubt, and there is also OK, but it will also tighten control over specific hospitals managed by the Ministry of Health, which in the area of the case, such as the Hospital Na Homolce, looks unfortunate, but that control has already been carried out in the past, a number of things have not been solved. And the principle is to strengthen the number of controllers further and further, when we are all completely controlled, is a completely wrong concept, because, on the contrary, it is necessary to strengthen the responsibilities of those hospitals so that they are motivated to guarantee themselves and not to rely on the fact that if any control does not find anything, then any bad consequence of the negative phenomena that appear there will be clouded by time in the form of hospital debt relief, as it is already happening in the end, and half a billion will be dedicated to the tragic St. Anne's University Hospital. [[17.30 hours]] I'm talking about it because the cause of this phenomenon is not a lack of control. If we're to control a system of hospitals that spends about 1/4 of the health budget, which is between 50 and 60 billion, then if there's a controller of five or ten, it's not going to save the system. If it is necessary to get these institutions to behave responsiblely, then a completely different means is needed to eliminate the moral hazard that is in the hospitals and to set the proper responsibilities and powers for them. The path is to remove hospitals to any form. It was proposed during the time of the pre-past government that faculty hospitals be removed to some form of universities, alias university hospitals. In the field of universities, their removal into the form of non-profit organizations has proved very useful. In spite of all the budgetary problems that are not much smaller than the budgetary problems in the health sector, universities have handled this very well. The normal financial controls that stand over them will keep them responsible, and it cannot be said that over the many years that this arrangement has existed, it would have shifted. If we wanted to control the flow rates of 50 billion. In the very complex hospital sector, we will really need hundreds and more people to do this and the further expansion of the few controllers by a few more, even if it is not too much money, when we talk about the state budget, will not help us. The only thing that's gonna help us is a change in some kind of paradigm, as they say today, and a proper solution to what's called moral hazard in the economy. I apologize for not proposing an amendment, but I felt it was my duty to address this problem, which has a large financial convention, and finally, the budgetary financial convention, as shown by half a billion into one of the major key faculty hospitals, to draw attention to this problem here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u206	I thank Mr Leoš Heger, who was the last electronically logged in to the debate. Before I give the floor to the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur, who is enrolled in the debate, I will state my apologies. Mrs Jana Hnyková apologizes from 18 to 19 o'clock for family reasons and in a possible meeting after 19 o'clock, if it should occur, Mr Josef Kott apologizes. Now, then, the Member and Chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u207	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. First, I formally submit to House document 1751. The amendment has already been commented by several Members, so I will not go back to that, but I have fulfilled my formal obligation. We're doing it again today - if the gentlemen allowed me not to scream. Thank you. Once again, we are having such a long day when dozens of Members are asking questions and the answer is silence. I really don't understand. I would assume that ministers would be happy to make their arguments, answers to questions, disprove some doubts or disprove the critical words of the opposition. It's kind of monothematic. First, before I say what I was going to say, I asked Minister Babiš if 130 million is 500 million. He argued here that from 261 is 520, it will be valid for six months, i.e. the benefit is 130 and the budget is plus 500. So I asked him what it was like, 'cause I don't know. But you haven't answered my question yet. Thank you. Excellent. I'll know the answer. What to say about the draft budget. That the government is in an economically extremely favourable period. I would say in the best since 2008, when it comes to the condition of the Czech economy. For the first time, and it is predicted by various independent institutions, not only the Ministry of Finance, the gross domestic product should exceed CZK 4 trillion next year. We would expect the government to use these favourable economic conditions to draw up a really good budget. Unfortunately, the government failed. Perhaps it is not worth repeating the debate when the government claims that this is for the investment budget, while spending is 76 billion. Again, the government claims that 76 is more than 100, because it was bad in 2013, it was not for the investment budget, but capital expenditure was 100 billion, or more than 100 billion. The next year will be for the investment budget, while capital expenditure is 76 billion. It may be odd, but the opposition has read and read regularly the government's programming statement. Government MPs should do this, too, to check the government's compliance or compliance with the programming declaration. We voted against, but we are still interested in whether it is being fulfilled or not. One point, and this is quite significant, and even a point to which we would agree, is that the government will conduct a comprehensive verification of the state's mandatorial spending. We are 14 months after the election, we are almost 11 months after the government has been appointed. Mandator expenditures for 2015 are record-breaking and no audit of the mandatorial expenditures has yet been carried out. So I don't know if it's gonna be until the last year after the government's constantly increasing the mandatorial expenses, and then they're gonna do some sort of clearance on their leave to say, "So we've raised it by 150 billion." In four years. That's what we've been saving! It is strange - and in our opinion, the government is already building an alibi so that in the second half of next year it can claim how well they manage - that, for example. as regards tax revenue, for example, VAT, the government is based on figures and on the reality of 2014. Thanks to the fact that on Monday, the Ministry of Finance published the results of the state budget implementation in 11 months, we already have a fairly accurate estimate of how the budget implementation will end at least on the revenue side. Firstly, we have the results for December from previous years, and to that we have the reality in the first 11 months. The government de facto says that it will choose either the same or less than this year for VAT. At the same time, the economy will grow between 2 and 3 percent. There is no point in arguing, which institution is right, whether the Czech National Bank, the World Bank, or the Ministry of Finance. Something's not mathematically right here. The economy will grow, for those 2 to 3 percentage points, we can say that it automatically produces about 30-35 billion into the state budget. At the same time, the Minister of Finance is constantly saying how tax collection under his leadership is improving, how he manages it himself and how those taxes are paid better and better, but the government is predicting that he will not raise a crown more than in 2014. And we think that deliberately, to say that we will save because we have chosen more and therefore the deficit is lower. Let us repeatedly argue that if there are higher incomes, that these are no savings, but that the deficit is only decreasing. I would expect the government to try to deal with what we didn't do, and that's fund management. I think there are absolutely unsystemically state funds that stand outside the state budget. It came about once, I don't know now, I wasn't here at the time, 10, 12, 14 years ago, with a reason that the main motive was to make funds that weren't enough to invest in that year so that they wouldn't fall to the so-called Treasury so that they could transfer from year to year. It was not immediately, so very often the authorities in November and December often spent senselessly so that they would not have to return anything. But that's not true anymore. Yet the funds still exist, and they are not small amounts. And there are other deficits. For example, in the housing fund next year, the planned deficit is one billion, with a deficit of 1.5 billion in the State Environmental Fund. With regard to the fund with privatisation revenues, a deficit of 8.5 billion. So only the three figures generally increase the public budget deficit by 10 billion. for next year. Plus, it's really inconspicuous. [[17.40 hours]] I tried, although I had a relatively short period of time, to abolish the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure as an institution that is useless, which stands between the State and the Ministry of Transport and its subordinate organisations. I'm afraid I didn't make it. However, I think that this is the right way for the state's economy to be in one budget. Because then we don't discuss everything. Just like next Wednesday when we discuss the third reading of the state budget, then the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, the State Fund for Housing Development, I could continue. So that's an incentive for the government. There's nothing we can do about it this year. In our opinion, it would be good to cancel the funds. Not cancel those activities, not cancel those expenses. There we can talk about the amount of whether they are effective or not. But it's really distorting the view of the state's economy as a whole. The government is saying in its programming statement that it will fight bureaucracy and over-the-counter administration. So just up to three ministries, namely the environment, finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, increase the number of employees by two thousand from year to year. $2,000! That's not the right fight with administration and overdoing administration. The government under Prime Minister Sobotka is essentially copying the state's management from when Bohuslav Sobotka was Minister of Finance. In several comments from the Minister of Finance, I noted that he would try to balance the budget as much as possible in 2017. It's a nice thing to say in 2012, and it's coming up in 2013. At the end of 2014, we have a budget for 2015 with a planned deficit of 100 billion. and in 21 months at the latest, we will have a draft budget for 2017. I wonder if a deficit of zero will be proposed, or if a balanced state management will be proposed, including, where possible, those funds, because they also create debt. In contrast to what the government is saying, what it has in its programming statement, with which it is very often proud, and my colleagues and colleagues have analysed this in detail in their speeches and described in their speeches to chapters in individual ministries, it increases operating costs. Although they claim that the operating expenditure will be reduced at all times. So when we sum up: the excellent economic situation of the Czech economy, about 4 percentage points of GDP better than the last budget that our government has drawn up. At the same time, the draft state budget deficit is 20 billion higher than in 2013, with record mandatorial expenditures, rising operating expenditures and declining capital expenditures. This is the budget prepared by the government, which claims to be saving, reducing operating expenditure and increasing the ratio of investment. A clear difference between words and actions. And the facts are in this House press 331 and in other chapters. These are dates of government, ministers and their subordinate offices. They're not data processing the opposition. Although we have tabled several amendments, which are certainly all in order - and I do not know whether the Minister of Finance will allow free decision-making or say anything, no amendment must be accepted - and we will be happy to have them adopted. But even if they're accepted, there's nothing that's gonna change the basics. The budget is bad, wasteful and does not serve the interests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u208	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I have here a factual remark from Mr. Rom Kostřice. Still in the debate. And I'm registering the application of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance of Babiš. I'm asking if this will be the final word after the debate? Yes. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u209	Thank you for the floor. Quite briefly, if it doesn't go directly to the budget. Here, one of my previous speakers was defined by the two catastrophic financial situation at St. Anne's. I'd just like to inform this honored auditorium on the microphone that I'm making an estimate, please, it's not a fixed number, that if this hospital was funded as an average hospital for about 20 years, it should be given 1.8 billion from the insurance companies. more. And if it were a comparison with very well rated hospitals, it would be 2.2 billion in 20 years. Unfortunately, I have to say that this blackout, or this uneven funding, is mainly offset by the crippled salaries of her employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u210	I thank Mr Rom Kostřic. That was the last application for the debate so far. I'm asking who's still reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the conversation. Now, I ask if the Minister is taking the final floor. Yes. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance to take his final word for a second reading of the state budget. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, my colleagues, I wanted to make a brief conclusion because there were a lot of opinions. Mr Stanjura blames me for being wasteful, while other Members criticize that we have given little and that supposedly the ministers have crawled little. I don't know. I think that for the first time, someone put the budget forward in a very timely and transparent manner, and that budget was discussed in tripartite, with employers, with trade unions. It wasn't like they got it two days before September 30th. We had several rounds, individual government ministers... already in June we had some kind of base, and from that June until September there were almost 20 billion, because we were actually... So no one can say that any minister was dissatisfied. Everyone was happy in the finals. [[Laughter from the right.]] So I don't know who the different amendments are that somewhere there's no money for sightseeing or sports, so I really don't understand why it's being proposed. I thought that Members would go to ministers and discuss their demands as Members would come to me. But maybe some of them don't. So the budget is very good, because it's based on a deficit of 100 billion. Here the opposition presented 120 billion. deficit. And that doesn't mean it's going to be 100 billion, maybe it's going to be considerably less, because it's a question of how our individual projects are going to turn out. We took over the country in decay. Someone's asking why they don't work and why there's a problem in Vrbětice. Well, the problem with Vrbetice is that the Secretary of Defense, and now I don't know which one it was, whether it was Vondra or Picek, actually, the ammo that's there, it's probably the ammo that belonged to the state, and somebody bought it on some conditions. So instead of the minister thinking and finding out he's got 500 million square feet in there, and if he sells it for a crown, he's got 500 million to get rid of the useless property, so he rents it to private companies. And we're dealing with the problem of private companies today. So that's also one of the examples of how our state works and what we inherited. Or Mr. Stanjura complained about the Czech Railways that the trains didn't work. But this must ask Mr. Žaluda, who indebted the Czech Railways, and essentially their debt is catastrophic. They also bought some wagons without locomotives, I learned, so we pay rent locomotives 430 million a year, we have wagons. And We inherited similar atrocities. So it's just on the verge of why the state is in decay because he's in decay. And it's our job to try and change that now. [[17.50 hours]] So I have a finance department where I inherited the Financial Administration in decay. We filed a criminal complaint against the former Director of the Financial Administration, several criminal reports. Yesterday, we filed a criminal complaint against an unidentified perpetrator or maybe a member of the Customs Service. Mr. Kalousek here has been racking up the carousel stores, but the liquor mafia has cost us 6,7 billion. and Eco-Invest case e.g. About 4.5 billion. Well, I don't know how we managed the Financial Administration and the Customs Administration. [[The laughter of several Members]] According to the 2012 European Union statement, tax fraud in the European Union is 177 billion. EUR. That's the potential, that's what somebody's always knitting around here, collecting taxes, and preventing VAT evasion. Those are the carousel shops. The Czech Republic has 22 percent of unpaid taxes, which is a precise estimate of the European Union. That means 3.2 billion. The euro is the potential that every year we lose VAT from VAT fraud. Rumun have 44 %, Finland and Holland 5 %. And from that title, we are also engaged in the European Union for the first time and we say: the European Union, change its legislation, we want to make our own decisions about carousels, because this is an organized crime that works very quickly, and there, if we succeed, is the fastest money. And that is why we have also come up with a control report project that some surrounding states have implemented, which is very effective. Of course, it will depend on whether we can enforce it in the House and in the coalition. And yet it's with the Croatian model. The Financial Administration also created a tax haven in Prague, an example of how it worked. Here in Prague 2, tax control is reported to go once every 320 years and in Votice reportedly every two or three years. So outside of Prague, companies are being harassed, the Financial Administration is still checking in, and here in Prague it has no one to control, so thousands of companies have relocated here, which have their operations outside Prague, but of course they are registered here. So that's what we're dealing with. It is not a coincidence that tax collection has improved, these are concrete measures and especially the atmosphere when we say that we will no longer be as helpful as we have been. Because I think taxes should be paid. And those who pay should be privileged to those who do not pay. So it's about revenue. About the budget. This year's budget is minus 112, we're probably going to get to 80, but what's important is we're going to cut the debt absolutely by about 20 billion. So the debt of 2013 is 1,683 billion, we're probably going to reduce by 20 billion. Well, we came and, of course, we freed up the consumption. We actually had to straighten out the things that were crouched, and we basically let go of the investment. It is not true that we did not let go of the investment, it was one of the first measures when Mrs Kovářová came and said that we did not have enough primary schools around Prague, so the programme was implemented by the Ministry of Finance. About 30 municipalities registered there with a request of 800 miles. And it's on. We're still doing this - it's surprising that this state hasn't been able to count how many babies are born here, so now we've done a program to build the capacity of primary schools in other places of our country, and kindergarten schools. It's logged in, wonder about the world, seven billion. - Seven billion. We lack kindergarten and primary schools here. Of course, investment is a priority. So let's just say we're ready for these investments. This would be a question of former environmental ministers Drobil, Chalupa, Bursík and others, why they did not actually respond to the infringement in the European Union, the EIA. After all, we have come and we are actually the only state, the worst state from all over Europe, from the Member States of the European Union, which did not have the Civil Service Act and which did not respond to Brussels' inflation under the EIA. We even lost the 2010 trial. And we've got a bunch of shut-down programs. And now we're at risk of having that 90 billion. projects where the EIA is already, so that Brusel will tell us that the EIA is new. Public Procurement Act - total paralysis on investment. The UOHS, which, of course, receives bullying lawsuits by construction companies. Instead of being bailed out here, which should be non-refundable and high, not bully lawsuits, no one did. We came up with the law to motivate the landowners more so that they could finally build. That's what we've been through and wondering, worlds, land purchases are already being made. Someone's been dealing with Mrs. Havránková for 19 years. We finished the meeting two weeks ago. Twenty years, that's a really big anniversary. It's really our state if I just take the D8, where I've been to see and where hill 7 has gone down. 6. 2013 as the floods were, so now we've finally pushed through, and it's likely that the soil will be taken away in May. So it'll take two years, two years. It would take three months at a normal private firm, but it will take our state two years. Finally, in December 2016, we will open the Prague-Ústí motorway, which we have been building for 24 years. In 24 years, we've built 76 kilometers for 40 billion. So these are truly incredible performances of our state, in what condition it is and how it works. I'll go back to the charges to answer Mr. Stanjur. The calculation is, there's no need for a law, it's a decree. It's due from 1. 7. I was talking about the mineral charge - brown coal, surface mine, which means it's supposed to be double, so we're counting the second half of 262 million, the first half of 131 million. And the rest of the budget is the rest of the minerals, so let me explain. Then, of course, the budget. We have a great Treasury. It cost us about 6 billion, about three times as much as in Austria, and basically we don't even have a clicking budget today. So when we were discussing the budget, I asked Gregor how he handled it. Well, we don't have a clicking budget, so hopefully we'll have one. With the funds, I agree, that would be great if we had all the state money in one pile. Too bad you didn't do it, we'd have cash pool. Then today the debt, which is 1,683 billion, and beyond the Treasury's control, is about 130 billion. In the accounts of different funds and institutions, so we would have cash pool today and the debt would be about 1,000 minus the 130. The question is, to what extent the Ministry of Finance, which will certainly seek to do so, will be convinced, for example. ZIF. Then don't yell again that I want the farm fund under me and that I have a conflict of interest there, as you commented today that we're agriculture ministers. It is a pity that you have not read the exchange of views on agriculture in the Law between Minister Jurečka and Faltýnek. Well, I'm sure the funds are great if it's in one pile, so that's no problem. [[18.00 hours]] So I'm saying, we're definitely not making the budget worse, but we're keeping the trend where we started the consumption. I never said the budget of 2017 would be zero. I said I wish I had. It's always the media... And that depends, of course, on whether or not we're gonna do the carousels. [[Laughter explosion on the right.]] . I don't know what's funny about that. By the way, we - for the first time in history, the Czech Republic has proposed something to Brussels. You took a train with Cameron and kicked the European Union. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I am the first Minister of Finance to organise a meeting of the Ministers of Finance of Germany, Poland, Hungary, Croatia, Slovakia, Austria, Romania and others will join. And I'll deal with the commissioner. If I didn't have to sit here 9. 12. because there will be some laws again, so I could deal with the Commissioner - [[loud laugh]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u212	I'm asking the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u213	- from the Senate. So I'm gonna sit here all day listening to all that wise talk. So I could deal with Moscovici, this is the Commissioner, former Minister of Finance of France. So I'm not gonna talk to him until next year, and we're gonna try to change the legislation. In addition, of course, we are trying to secure other money. There's talk of PPP projects. They were in France. Now comes the French Prime Minister 8. 12th and there will be a seminar and we will discuss with the companies that we could actually finance it in another way. And we are already discussing the Kladno project, Prague airport, for a very long time. At least they've been talking about it for a long time. So we're also trying to raise money in another way. With regard to the people who criticized - yes, we recruit 600 people to Financial Administration because there are few, so we recruit them. Minister Marksová, 600 people at the employment offices, because social housing benefits, unemployment benefits, etc., social benefits are being used here. Someone's gotta check it out. That's why we hire people, because there's simply a deficit. It's not like we're maintaining any artificial unemployment. It would be interesting to actually know the structure of the unemployed, because everywhere I go - and on Sunday I was at Laufen's company in Znojmo - there are no people. Businesses don't have people. It looks like nobody wants to work. So I don't know how it's possible that we don't have people, that we don't have the structure. Who built the education here, why we have 77 universities, etc. So the country's in some kind of state and we're unemployed, but on the other hand, there aren't the right people, the right structures that the industry would need. The athletes. Sure. It's interesting how it's financed. Last year, Fischerův's government, this is where the lottery company's contribution to the Czech Olympic Committee, actually flows about 430 million, then it flows through traffic, then it flows through investment. I don't think we need money for any boiler rooms. It's interesting that through the three sources it usually flows to the same companies after. So we've increased it, and of course we need to talk about it so that the money really comes where we need it, probably the athletes. Especially those young athletes. In terms of culture, I think Minister Herman was satisfied. We also increased the incentives last year, so I think it's okay and there shouldn't be a problem. We are now - that's so interesting, I can't forgive myself as we've been dealing with the state's energy strategy. I don't know what it is anymore. That's about 800 pages, and if I take it very pragmatically, gas and gas pipelines don't belong to us. Water doesn't belong to us. The refinery doesn't belong to us. Coal does not belong to us and ČEZ has historically done what he wanted. He went to the Balkans and bought for 80 billion, and he invested something here. We just forgot to do the homework, the core, what we need - energy strategy. I don't know if our country has ever had a strategy, but I have a feeling it hasn't. But I'm new here, I think I said something wrong again. So I think the budget is good because everyone was happy with it. I am terribly surprised that there are so many comments and so many suggestions, because I repeat again - employers, trade unions, ministers and presidents even, everyone was satisfied. I think that if we can actually implement and fix the Financial Administration, the Customs Administration and the main laws that we have planned, yes, we certainly want to reduce the deficit and reduce the debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u214	I thank the Minister of Finance for the final word. I'm quitting second reading of the state budget. I will state my apologies and I still have applications with preferential rights that will be outside this point, because I have terminated it under § 66 in conjunction with § 105 of the Act. I ask the chairman of the TOP 09 to wait. Mr Josef Vondrášek, Mr Václav Snopek and Mr Martin Komárek have apologized from today's meeting since 18.15. Now the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u215	However legitimately you have declared, Mr President, that this is beyond this point, it is not possible to clearly respond to the Minister's final speech. The worst of all are dwarves, ema's talking meat, the dog ate the morgue, and it's like a stake in a fence. I would ask the rapporteur, perhaps, until next time before his third reading, to sum up the Minister's speech in a clear manner and to tell us what he was talking about, and to tell us the main priorities of his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u216	Certainly, the rapporteur will state the third reading procedure under the Rules of Procedure Act. Mr. ODS Chairman Petr Fiala and Mr. Chairman of ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura after him. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u217	Mr Vice-President, I listened very carefully to the Minister of Finance's speech. He reminded me of some famous speeches from the past that I will not mention here, but I understood the basic logic that the Minister of Finance is following. The logic is roughly as follows: For growing the economy and having good economic results and good economic indicators, this government, although it was not yet with the government at the time when it was decided, may be able to do so. But for putting together a problematic and bad budget that I can't defend, those past governments that have ruled here in the past. That's really a logic that keeps my mind on or that's gonna blow my mind and I don't know how to comment on it. But that's exactly what the Minister argued. And I would like to point out to you, Minister of Finance, that you are not here as an opposition politician to speak like that, nor are you here as an investigative media journalist who belongs to you to speak like that, but you are here as a finance minister, who should have answered specific questions about how this budget is composed; the structure; why certain amounts are in individual chapters; why you say about the budget that it is for investment, and investments are lower; why you say how you're saving while giving more money to the Ministry's operating expenses; why you keep telling us that there will be better tax collection, and here no better tax collection is planned etc. Completely specific questions that we have not received any concrete answers to. [[18.10 hours]] I understand from your speech that when you rule with powers like Kim Čong-un, it will all be perfect in this country. But we are not so far yet, so I would ask you to answer the specific questions of the opposition in a very specific way next time, if you are even convinced that you are able to defend the budget and that there is something to defend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u218	Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u219	Thank you for the floor. First, a procedural question. How come the rapporteur didn't have the final word and you ended the second reading? I think you're in a bit of a hurry, Mr. Vice-President. But that's not why I came. I'd ask that after I'm done telling me why you didn't even invite him, and you've finished reading the second time. The minister tried to get me to defend him, at least to answer one specific question when I asked him about the money. And again, the numbers don't fit, I'd say the usual. He's writing something on his phone again, it's hard, he's not listening. This year's budget is 85 million. the MIT from the mining activity. For next year it is designed plus 500 million, 585. Okay. And the minister says: in the first half of the year without change, it will be 131 miles. I'm talking about a budget item. There's 85 this year for a whole year. Nothing's gonna change next semester, and it's gonna be 131. That's weird. For the whole year 85 and the half of 131. [[A note from the government bench.]] I don't need it in writing, there's no explaining it. 85 a year, and if nothing changes, it's 131 in the semester, times two is 260 a year. I'm talking about what's in the MIT chapter as income. I didn't say it was all income. We are talking about the budget in budget chapters and individual items. And it just doesn't add up! Twice 131 is 260, and this year there's 85, your government hasn't made any change in the 2014 budget, so you're still counting. It's also in the explanatory statement. In previous years, it was 85 miles. And then, and that's a pretty good political method, the finance minister criticizes his own government pretty hard, unchoosy, but he pretends it was another government. He was talking about the D8 slide. A truly unfortunate event. It was June 2013. Nečasův' government was in power less than a month after it happened - one less than a month and I was still a transport minister for less than one month. Then there was Rusnokův's government, not Fischerův's, as you said, which was there for less than seven months and the Minister of Transport. The pupil was also there for less than seven months. And you, as a success of your own government, announced that it would be done in May 2015, that's in 24 months, but out of those 24 months, Sobotkův's government and several of your transport ministers rule. So I don't understand who you criticized. Himself? But you pretended to be criticizing someone else. And so I could discuss one after another, election or post-election or constant election performances. You just didn't answer the questions we asked. And laughing when you say "carousel shops" isn't because we downplay that question. I feel like if we were to ask what time it is, you'd first say you don't know exactly what time it is, but when you do the carousel business, you're gonna give us a pretty good answer. That's why we laugh about it, because it has nothing to do with the state budget. And now that you're here, you've improved your tax collection, tell us which taxes to raise when consumption increases. It's just not working out for you, per cent! So you're magical with numbers. When you need, you use the absolute value, when it doesn't work out, you use the relative value, and if neither one comes out, you just make up a number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u220	Thank you. I'll give the floor to Chairman TOP 09 to Karel Schwarzenberg. I draw attention to the fact that I asked before the end of the second reading of the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance whether he wanted to speak in the debate or as a final word. He claimed the final word. In the second reading of the State Budget in Section 105 there is nothing about the final word and only the subsidiary can be applied § 66 para. 1 and 2. Since the rapporteur has not reported, he cannot be part of the debate now because the item has been closed and only those are speaking, and I have told the Chairman of the TOP 09 to Kalousk when he came to report, and I have said that I have already given the floor, and it will be after the end of the point. That's what the Chairman of TOP 09 heard from me directly. That's all there is to it. President of the political party TOP 09 Karel Schwarzenberg, with priority rights, of course. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u221	honourable Members, Mr President, since no one has done so, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance today, because I have never experienced such cordial laughter in the House as I have today. Everyone here laughed. When, given the sad and tedious numbers he introduced us to, he cheered everyone up, so it is a great achievement for which I would like to thank him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u222	Thank you to Chairman TOP 09 Karel Schwarzenberg. And Václav Votava reports as Deputy Vice-President of the CSSD Club because Mr. Roman Sklenák apologized. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u223	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have no choice but to choose this form. If President Sklenák isn't here, as vice president of the club, I can have priority rights. I think you should have asked me to take the final vote, but I'm not mad at you because I wouldn't have married them anyway, even if you'd asked me. Otherwise, I thank my colleague Stanjur for defending me, for defending my rights as rapporteur. I just wanted to respond to my colleague Kalousek, who said that I should sum up the speech of the Vice-President and Minister of Finance Babiš. You know, I might have forgotten something, so, Mr colleague, through the President, I refer you to the shade, there you will certainly read it before bedtime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-001-001.u224	Thank you. Again, it is not an obligation for the state budget to call for a final word, because the paragraph is indeed different from the ordinary laws. In this respect, I think I have not broken the Rules of Procedure. If anyone thinks otherwise, please propose measures against me as managing officer. Let me make an apology to Mr Stanislav Berkovec since 18.30 for work reasons. We'll proceed with the approved agenda. Before that, I thank the Minister of Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Votav, for their work in discussing the second reading of the state budget. The next item will be
