ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u1	15. Members of Helena Langšádlová, Marek Benda, Jan Chvojka, Helena Válková, Jan Bartošek, Daniel Korte, Marek Ženíšek, Jiří Skalický, Michal Kučera, Herbert Pavera, Markéta Adamová, Zdeněk Bezecný, Nina Nováková, Gabriela Pecková and Jan Farský for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, and Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended /German press 106/ - first reading I'm gonna ask you to lower your noise level. We received the Government's position as House Press 106/1. I ask that the proposal put forward by Mr Helena Langšádlová, the appellants' representative. [[She's excused.]] It will also be represented in this case. I'll ask you, Mr. plaintiff, to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's the second of the three laws I'm in charge of today, so I believe I'll be more successful with this other than with the first one. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed proposal, designated by the House press 106, seeks to limit the procedural effects of executions beyond the substantive regulation of the spouses' common property. This is a proposal which, like the previous one, has already been tabled in the previous parliamentary term, but the legislative process has not been completed because, as we all know, the House has dissolved. The current applicable legislation, effective from 1 January 2013, provides for the possibility of the execution or enforcement of decisions of property and other values which are mandatory in the spouse's possession, provided that a claim falling within the common property is enforced in the execution or execution. In our opinion, however, this adjustment shows several theoretical and practical difficulties. Firstly, it should be stressed that execution is an instrument of procedural law which should not address substantive issues in the form of procedural assumptions. The issue of marital joint property is a matter of material law and the nota bene of material law, which is intended to address the relationship between spouses and not increase the enforcement of debts. From the point of view of civil law, if the obligation is part of the common property, it cannot be subject to recovery on the sole property of the other spouse. As a petitioner, we find it legally questionable, up to the limit of constitutionality, if execution or execution interfere with the property values of the other spouse, although there is no legal reason to believe that this is their common property. This is, in our view, a threat to the cohesion of the family itself and, on the one hand, to the unpredictability of the law, because it allows a third party to bear the legal consequences of non-compliance with obligations for which it is not responsible. In fact, the present procedural regulation creates an unlimited liability from marriage. For this reason, the amendment seeks to return to a state that reflected the framework laid down by the Family Act. On this issue, however, it should generally be added that the caselaw of the General Courts has approached the question of the promotion of common property to a guarantor's relationship rather restrictively and, on the contrary, has stressed that the joint property of the spouses is a set of rules that address the relationship between spouses and do not create an external community. Legislation effective from 1. 1. last year goes against the current judicial development, which is generally specified in the explanatory report, which in itself does not have to be wrong and in general such an intervention can also be worthy. In this case, however, there are no particular reasons and there are no grounds for the legislature's interpretation of the law overcoming the caselaw. On the contrary, we see the need to place greater emphasis on the protection function of the institution of the joint property of spouses in view of the conflict of various interests which constitute different legislation and not transform it into a universal guarantee for which it was not intended and whose fulfilment of the protection of the function completely devalues. We consider the creditor's right to claim satisfaction to be significant, but it cannot be absoluteized. It should be added that the legislation in force until the end of 2012 and the proposed regulation allow the enforcement of decisions on assets which are part of the common property, which must, however, be certified or, at least, reasonably assumed, as in the case of compulsory property. The proposed legislation permits the execution against assets in common assets, as was possible by the end of 2012. It only precludes such execution against the property of a second spouse who may not be in the common property, in a situation where the affected spouse is not even able to prove effectively that the property is exclusively his, because such a claim, even sometimes substantiated, is not a reason for partial cessation of the execution. Dear colleagues, I beg you to support this proposal and please refer this proposal to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I would now ask the rapporteur Stanislav Polčák to speak to the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. To be honest, the principle of collegiateness to my fellow Members who have submitted this bill, with what I have been entrusted, is to process the report for the benefit of the entire diaper. So I am trying to come out of this fight at least partly on both sides with honor and I want to say that there are a good line of reasons for adopting this standard and, on the other hand, there are some similar lines of reasons for rejecting this bill. I must say that I also identify with a relatively modest government position, in the sense that it does not have a dramatic appeal to it. He is, of course, very attractive on one side. On the other hand, it can create exactly the other legal prerequisites for allowing debtors to avoid the obligation to pay off their debts, because, on the one hand, such legislation can also create a situation where one husband is in a cheerful debt and the other husband is happy to acquire property without any satisfaction from such obviously purposeful property. [[17,00 hours]] In fact, I also recognise certain and perhaps not entirely minor legislative shortcomings here in this proposal. First of all, however, it is necessary to deal with what the government is saying, and I think it would also be to some extent inspiring to consider the petitioners for the future fate of this proposal. One. I think the government is very correct in saying that one part of the segment of execution cannot be pulled out of this to some extent comprehensive adjustment and a comprehensive adjustment needs to be submitted. This, of course, can only be seen to some extent as a scream, on the other hand, the government adds a specific commitment to present an analysis of the existing possibilities of executions, their forms and, of course, their narrow places. This commitment is contained in the government's position, and I assume that the government will present such an analysis. Two. The government rightly points out that the amendment tabled by my colleagues also has a correlation with the new Civil Code, which embraces the institutions and the joint property of the spouses newly, and I think the government rightly points out that it would be appropriate to make a certain comparison with what actually brings the new legal status from 1. 1. 2014 is precisely on the issue of substantive and procedural conflict, which is obvious, but the contradiction in the execution section is conducted by an effort to increase the enforcement of claims, if they are indeed part of the expected joint property of the spouses. The absence of transitional provisions, which does not contain the proposal, is a very specific legislative procedure, I confess, extremely unusual, so that there is no guidance on how to proceed after this standard becomes effective, because in procedural law the principle is that the procedure already initiated is completed in accordance with the existing rules. Of course, the petitioners should know that, because we are having fun on the procedural law section, but in a rather special way they argue, and even this does not add up to specific legal practice, that a transitional provision may not be adopted in this case. I am afraid that this would therefore have quite a fundamental legal dispute in the area of enforcement proceedings already initiated and, secondly, it has an undoubted impact on the principle of legal certainty, which Parliament, as a legislature, should, of course, respect. Definitely if this standard were to be passed on to further reading, it simply deserves a transitional provision. That is quite indisputable. We cannot leave public authorities, which are, of course, both judicial bailiffs in the sense of those executors who are in charge and those who perform execution in the section of the actual court authority, leave them in vacuum, that they will not know how to deal with the execution. The idea that it will simply stop, taking into account the procedural principle that the process should be completed according to the procedural regulation under which it was initiated, should the legislation therefore explicitly address this if it should not be. I could raise a number of objections to what is being put forward here. I therefore have to say that the explanatory memorandum is largely incorrect, inaccurate, and I think it would be appropriate - I will not suggest rejecting this draft if someone else does so - it will be his decision - but if the standard should proceed to further reading, it would also be appropriate for the Ministry of Justice to ask the Minister to do so, or maybe try to hasten the work on the analysis, which they are also talking about, because it is also quite a fundamental argument for this part as to how to actually deal with this standard in the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS, has signed up with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u6	Thank you. I would sign a lot of what the rapporteur said, but I don't really feel for the plaintiffs, so maybe I'll be a little more open. First, I recommend to all colleagues and colleagues that we take a real look at the form of this parliamentary proposal. First we have 25.5 rows of novel numbers, three quarters of the page, then we have two points - Arabic one, two where two paragraphs are released. Then we have the second law, where we have 6.5 rows of numbers of novels and one row again, where we release one paragraph. Perhaps as part of the collegiate, we could suggest that at second reading we propose that part one release paragraphs 1 and 2, part two Arabic one, and we are settled. And really seriously. I don't want to go into theoretical legal considerations, but probably the plaintiffs are led by some sad story. On the other hand, I think they're creating an environment to purposefully exploit it. Unlike the representative of the petitioner, who said that marriage should not be such an unlimited designation, it doesn't bother me that marriage is an unlimited liability. The kind of atomization that one husband makes debts, the rapporteur talked about it, and the other takes possession, and then there's the creditor. And how is the creditor getting his rights? By saying, I may have acquired property, but I did not know that my partner was in the meantime in debt. I don't think that's the right idea. I have no idea why we want to change this so quickly, what makes us want to do this, and why we are opening the door to proceed as described by the rapporteur, that is, the acquisition of one partner of property in exclusive ownership, on the other hand, the relatively carefree credit or other burden of the other partner who knows that if it does not happen, whether intentionally or unintentionally, whether planned or unplanned, they will not lose anything, because the property is written on a partner, husband or wife - and what? What about the creditor? He finds that the man may even pay the rent on paper to his husband, his wife in a fine villa, but finds that he has nothing to satisfy his claim because the property was not in the joint ownership of the spouse, but was owned by the husband or wife. I'd like to know the answer to this, why we're actually creating an environment in which they can move. I may be old-fashioned or conservative, but I don't really believe the stories of one husband or wife making debts, and the other didn't know anything about it, and he only took property out of his joint account. I'm saying the right to be clear. When anyone reads the bill in, as I said, 25 lines of novels are released, two paragraphs are released, then a relatively incomprehensible reason message for those who have not studied law, with the fact that there is not actually a problem that I actually want to deal with, except that once it was like this, now it's the other way around, and we propose that it come back, as it once was, with the fact that there is some appeal, that the judicial power has applied it as much as it did. I don't think that's a good idea. I'm not suggesting rejection, I'll leave it to others if they want to. If anyone suggests it, I will certainly join in, because I do not think that this is a way to improve the legislative environment, how to protect creditors' rights. And I want to say one thing. I think that there are and have been documented enough cases, I would say up to bullying or unauthorized action by executors. That is, of course, true, and legislative steps have also been taken, so some of the stories that are happening to this day can no longer happen, including the possibility to withdraw from it. [[unintelligible]] On the other hand, there is very little talk about creditors who really can't get their money and their claims, because those who have obligations simply don't want to pay them. And I would hate for us to create or increase space for those who want to use it for purpose and then basically laugh at their creditors and say, "I have nothing, you're not taking anything on me! The property is just a husband or a wife.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have a priority right here for the discussion of the Minister of Justice Válková. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be as funny as my previous speaker, although I am a co-president of this parliamentary proposal. During the time when I became familiar with the more detailed contexts and also with the analysis that our legislative department would always do inexorably, at the time I was a Member, now as Minister, I learned that this parliamentary proposal suffers from a number of shortcomings. And now I'm not just going to talk about those legislative technical ones that could certainly be removed and that have already been brought to the attention here. This is a more substantial point, because we will be discussing House press number 107 in a few moments. In both cases, it is a solution to problems that accompany long-term recovery of claims and executions in the Czech Republic, and now it enters, or approaches, the application of the new Civil Code and related procedural standards that further complicate the application area, application practice. I do not think that this partial parliamentary proposal would well address the problem. There may be cases that have been discussed here. I think that is why we should be very careful. And while, as I say, I am a co-author, I tend to tend to the solution that lies in waiting for a government proposal to address this issue more comprehensively. It is already being processed in the legislative department. I would like to respond so that it does not always seem that there will be a useful meaningful parliamentary proposal, which will suffer some shortcomings, and the relevant representative of the resort will come forward and say: but we are working on a more comprehensive and better standard. I would recommend here to distinguish between cases where inter-ministerial commentary proceedings reveal a number of contexts which, at first sight, cannot be estimated without a detailed analysis and economic impact here in the Chamber of Deputies. And that is probably a typical deficiency, or at least the risk of all the parliamentary proposals. So I suggest you be very careful in this case. And while, as far as the sense and purpose of the parliamentary proposal are concerned, I am 100% in favour of it, I am afraid that we could do more harm than good if we accepted it in this form. However, if most of you raise your hand, you need to work a lot on it during its preparation for second reading on the Constitutional Legal Committee or in other committees. With regard to its connection to another parliamentary proposal, which is under House press number 107, the link is not so obvious at first sight. However, these are again ad hoc interventions in civil proceedings and execution orders. So what I was talking about in relation to the law on criminal liability of legal entities is double in relation to the OSL and the enforcement order, which we can amend at such a monthly interval, and quite reasonably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Petr Adam is duly enrolled in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that there is no positive criticism from the speaker's counter, or rather praise, too often, so hopefully it will not be a big surprise. Let me briefly convey the opinion of the Úsvit movement on the proposed amendments to the enforcement order, which are the current prints 106 and 107. The Dawn Movement has already made it clear before the elections that it will take all the necessary steps to change the current execution order, which we consider completely inadequate. It follows from the definition of execution that this is an extreme form of debt recovery, when material and intangible assets used to repay debts are confiscated against the owner's will. The word extreme seems very important to me here. Yes, Mr Stanjur, through the Vice-President, on the basis of dozens of cases, I do not feel that this is such an extreme solution as the extremely advantageous practical unregulated business of a group of entrepreneurs. Make no mistake. We are clearly saying that debts are paid and have to be paid. However, I believe that the system parameters can be adjusted so that these debts are repaid and the debtor is not thrown into a virtually unsolvable social situation. Moreover, these examples are often the stories of people who did not even know that they owed any amount at all, or those who were in a relationship with the borrower. However, we are not of those who reject a good idea simply because it came from a political competitor's pen. I believe that a good idea and common sense must always have the opportunity to succeed. Therefore, the view of both my and the Dawn Club is to vote in favour of these proposals. Yes, these are only partial changes in the wrong system, but they are changes for the better. However, it continues to be our belief that a strict and fundamental systemic change in the current executive order must come. We hope that the same constructive approach will be to our amendment, which we will soon submit to the House, which the government now has, about territoriality, and that, as well as the Minister and others, we can all, together, plunge into this fundamental change. Thank you very much. Bye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another discussion is submitted by Mr Jeroným Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that I am not a co-president of this bill, and I also consider it to a large extent not well-worked, but this does not prevent me from addressing this issue not only in my speech, but also in my second and third reading, if necessary. First of all, we need to realize why this proposal is here. In my opinion, it merely addresses the consequences of the adoption of the new Civil Code and the follow-up regulations. In my opinion, the rush, the way in which the new Civil Code was being adopted, and the way in which the new Civil Code was created, ultimately resulted in us having many amendments that we will have to adopt, we will have to correct the wording that is there, and save at the last moment the often complicated fates of individual people, which now, after the new Civil Code has been amended, are really affecting a number of families and people. Because the code started to apply 1. 1., logically a number of executors prepared for this date and began to execute where the law allows them, newly, that is, even in this case extended the possibility of satisfying the creditor, unfortunately, but often also at the expense of people who did not cause the debt as such. This is, please, another of the consequences of the Civil Code, which we, who were here and did not vote, pointed out in the last parliamentary term. I do not consider it happy that this bill seeks to change the rules of procedure, virtually. tries not to apply material law by changing procedural rules. It's not good. This is not the right solution, but in my view it can be corrected by changing the House's second and third reading. There was a mention of when debts should be in common and when they should not be in common. I'd like to share my point of view. It is, of course, a question of assessing each of us, each experiencing a different life situation. I'm going to try to make a relatively objective assessment, even if it's from my point of view. I don't think there's any reason for the other husband to be responsible if the debt is incurred before marriage. I think there's a number of cases like this. And often, even though husbands should clarify their circumstances before marriage, even those of property, this does not happen. And it is not right in my opinion that the one who did not create the debt should be held accountable for it. I don't think it's right in such a case to affect his account. And that, unfortunately, is the thing that can happen under the current regulation. [[17.20 hours]] At the same time, however, I think that the husband should also not be liable for the debt of a husband he did not know about, but which was created for marriage. And unfortunately, there are a lot of cases - perhaps you have met them in your parliamentary offices, I have seen many times in the law firm - simply because it doesn't always work in marriage and often, especially when the marriage falls apart, one spouse creates a debt and the other is responsible for it. I think it makes sense to debate the amount of debt to be shared and not what it is, and I think it also makes sense to debate whether, for example, to impose a debt recovery obligation upon a second husband that the second husband, in certain amounts of the loan, will be listed on a specific document, that is to say, on that contract, otherwise it will not be possible to enforce this thing after the second husband. We have a problem with the fact that it is not always possible to find out from the perspective of the creditor whether the debtor is alone or has a partner, virtually. in this case, the husband. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, despite the opposition of social democracy as at the time, new citizen cards have also been introduced, where it is possible not to mention, at its request, the state of the person concerned, that is whether he is married or not. I think that is certainly not good for creditors, but unfortunately for debtors' husbands, who are also causing debts to their loved ones. I think it also makes sense to debate, in this context, the establishment of a register in which it would be possible to trace the narrowing of the spouses' common property, whether it is narrowed down by a judicial decision or, for example, by a notary record. In my opinion, the way in which execution is carried out is also worth debating, whether it concerns the possibility of obtaining funds from the other husband's account, which I consider to be very problematic, so the settlement of the common property, for example, when selling the property. And since I think this proposal is not perfect, but at the same time I think it is not possible to waste time, I personally will not vote in favour of rejecting this proposal, I will support it for the second reading. And I would like to see if there is a new proposal in the Ministry of Justice now that we may apply it as an amendment to this press, or - if it is quick - that such a proposal be put forward and approved, perhaps before this bill is approved, but for reasons of precautionary reasons, that we do not wait for a government proposal that logically has to go through a very extensive commentary procedure for several months, I would recommend that we not reject this proposal now, but at the same time very much heed the debate that will, for example, be heard or the information and suggestions that will be heard from the Ministry of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think, as I said, that there are a number of good reasons why we should deal with this arrangement, just as there are a number of very serious reasons why it might even be rejected. However, if the House decides not to reject the press, I do not think that the representatives of the ruling coalition can simply say that it will simply run further through the legislative process, but they should therefore clearly state the commitment that the analysis that the government is also talking about and committed itself to the position put forward by the entire House that this analysis of executions and enforcement rights will be presented in such a way that it is still workable so that the findings of this analysis are incorporated into this amendment. If Mr Tejc also says that another amendment is being prepared, this, in my view, weakens to some extent the reasons for the adoption of this amendment, because it is again the partial salami method that does not fully contribute to the rule of law. I want to say that we all perceive this if the real wife or husband did not know about the debt that arose from, say, the fraudulent conduct of their mates, this is, of course, an act that is not only deplorable, but the right should not provide him with too much tolerance and protection. On the other hand, however, we must also avoid the case where real purposeful assets will be transferred so that a single creditor remains damaged. In other words, husbands will live on high feet, but the only one who will be sharp will be a creditor. Of course, it is beautifully popular and maybe even populist to speak against executions today, but when you get your claim in court - maybe someone will knock you down, God forbid, on the street, and you will be entitled to compensation for damage to health - when you find that judgment can also represent a comparable quality to some of our citizens as a roll of toilet paper, you will find that such justice was not wanted. I think it is also appropriate to recall that, following the introduction of private executors, who, of course, often - and this can be seen in the harsh practice of the Supreme Administrative Court - have sheep among them, which can undoubtedly be described as black, so there has certainly been a multiple leap increase in the enforcement of the law. According to statistics, the previous year in 2005, the voluntary enforcement of law was at 5%, and today we are at more than 50 percent. Germany is just over 60 percent. So, finally, one of the fundamental attributes of the rule of law, which is the enforcement of law, is beginning to take on concrete outlines and should not be the aim of the legislature, let's say, a rather reckless amendment to this enforcement of the right to undermine. It is appropriate to resolve the conflict areas that even the problem that the petitioners show results from. Undoubtedly, yes. That's why I'm all ten. But when we have also spoken to some of our colleagues on previous proposals on legislative assholes, I do not want to use this term on this amendment, but it is a proposal that is not successful, it is undoubtedly. The Minister of Justice also spoke of this. After all, if the bill merely cuts, it is only very exceptionally likely that it will bring new quality to our legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u15	Thank you to the rapporteur. With a factual remark, Mr Marek Černoch is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to say that I agree with my colleague Polčák, because there is always a creditor for every debtor, and I know that the moment a person lends money to someone and he refuses to return it, he tries to get his money back in every way. But it is true that, at present, the situation in the overall executive order looks scary. And I must say that I am glad, although I understand, of course, that other amendments are being prepared, whether parliamentary or government, because there is an option, if you let them go to second reading, there is an opportunity to work on them. We all know that nothing is ever perfect, and perhaps nothing will ever be perfect. There will always be people looking for ways to escape it in some way, but I must say that I am glad because I take the solution of the execution order as such to my child, although I am not a petitioner or co-president of this novel, so I am glad that there is something to be done, and I would like to ask you to release this amendment to the second reading where it could be worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask if there are any more applications for the debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate. Let me ask you about the final words. Mr. Submitter. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the rich discussion, where there was a lot of pros, but also a lot against. Perhaps the example of the Minister, who actually signed the bill as a co-designer and has a problem with it today, shows that the issue is complex and that it is a very sensitive social issue. In fact, these three laws, which I am a co-president, and there will be others, by simply being things that deserve attention, and there are things that should be dealt with. Just because the secretary signed the proposal, maybe today she regrets it, doesn't mean that the proposal is fundamentally wrong. I admit that the proposal is parliamentary, we do not have an army of legislation at the ministries or elsewhere, so there is certainly room for adjustments on the constitutional law committee, perhaps even with the help of the Ministry of Justice. However, I insist that, in principle, the ideas of this law are correct. I do not think, as he said, through the President, colleague Stanjura, unfortunately I know the cases, and in my office I had about seven or nine in the four years when I was a Member, that it was simply my wife's divorce that she found out that her husband had incurred debts somewhere at Home Credit, etc., etc., I don't want to be here - that's more of a negative advertisement - that's just how it works. We can, like, a conservative can say, it's her own fault that she married this... I don't want to say who. I'll say, "Yeah, well, life is complicated, sometimes relationships change. However, I beg the support of this press for the second reading of the Constitutional Legal Committee, where we can have a qualified discussion on this matter and where there is room for adjustments, whether as requested by individual Members or as the Ministry of Justice needs to be reminded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u19	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. From a technical point of view, I think any proceduralist would have to say that this standard deserved to be rejected. From a political point of view, it is clear that no one in this House has dared to propose the rejection of this amendment. I confess that I was prevented only by the fact that a number of my fellow Members from the parliamentary club presented this standard. I think that if this standard were to pass - and so it seems to pass - into the next phase of the legislative process, then, indeed, with an extended deadline for its discussion and, secondly, undoubtedly, with the fact that the Ministry of Justice will have to do a work on completion or a major revision of this amendment. So in my final speech, I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for discussion - the question is whether 60 days is sufficient, let's say 60 days. Also, so that the Ministry of Justice can provide some analyses, if necessary, and secondly, I hope that the Ministry of Justice will not give up its responsibility in this matter for the state of Czech justice and also for the recovery of debts, or, say, debts, which should not be completely skewed on the other side again, before it has been done so far. So, from my post as rapporteur, I recommend that this standard proceed to the next reading, with these remarks that I made in the previous performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u21	Thank you, rapporteur. However, I think we have encountered a minor problem, because if you are proposing an extension, it should have been mentioned in the debate. So if one of the ministers is willing to say something nice about the microphone and open the debate again, he'll get us out of this situation. Please, Madam Secretary of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u22	Mr President, dear colleagues, of course we are learning these procedures, which allow us to proceed cleverly with such complicated or such complicated cases. I think that really the extension that has been discussed here is meaningful, but I can't suggest it myself. I think it would allow the Ministry of Justice to prepare a more comprehensive proposal, which could then be read as an amendment at second reading. Well, then, my statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u23	I thank the Minister for reopening the debate. Mr Polčák, please, then the President of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister's speech was many times more successful than some other ministers who said only a good day during the opening of the debate, when we made this mistake. That's what happened here, too, so I thank her for her performance being to some extent more extensive. She opened the debate. Although I may have hoped in vain to offer to reject the press, if this has not happened, I suggest extending the deadline by 60 days, with the supposed consent of the petitioners' representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u25	Yes. Mr. Chairman of ODS Stajnura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u26	So that the rapporteur does not feel that no one has the courage to propose rejection... For work reasons, I could not watch the debate the whole time, I thought someone had suggested it, so I will take advantage of the opportunity that the debate was open, and I will suggest it because I think it's a shame to waste energy - 120 days, involve the Ministry and so on. I think that perhaps at the next bill, at the next point, there would certainly deserve a more detailed discussion. So I'm suggesting here, I'm making a motion to dismiss the law at first reading. Then I'd like to ask you to sign off before the vote. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-19-ps2013-007-02-009-015.u27	Yes. I will ask if there are any more applications for the debate. It's not so, so I'm gonna end it and call in my colleagues from the lobby, and at the same time I'm gonna sign you off. I'm asking for a new registration. Once the treaty is settled, we will proceed to the vote. There was therefore a motion to reject the proposal tabled by Mr Stanjura. We shall decide by vote on this proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees to the motion to dismiss, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 38, registered is 149, for 42, against 91, this proposal has not been adopted. Now, then, we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees. There is a proposal from the Organising Committee to order a constitutionally legal committee to be discussed. I'll ask if there's another suggestion... It's not like that. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to order this press to the Committee of Constitutional Law, please press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 39, registered 150, for 147, against 1, this proposal has been adopted. We would therefore now decide to extend the time limit for discussion under the rapporteur's proposal by 60 days. He has amended the petitioner's consent, but I'm just gonna ask if that's true. Yes, the petitioner agrees. We will therefore vote on the extension of the 60-day discussion period. Please, whoever agrees, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 40, registered is 150, for 146, against 1, and this proposal has also been adopted. I am of the opinion that we have ordered this press to the Committee of Constitutional Law and that the hearing period has been extended by 60 days. I thank both the petitioner and the rapporteur, and I finish point 15. We'll continue with point 16. That's what it is.
