ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u1	1. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the situation regarding the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice I'm opening the debate. The Prime Minister is the first to report to that. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior Chovanec, then the Minister of Defence Stropnický, will appear first. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, we have agreed with the members of the Government whose competence this event is most concerned with complementing my speech. First, I will speak as Prime Minister at the outset for the Czech Republic's Government, and then I have asked both the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Defence to speak as well and inform the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, as, after all, there was a wish within the programme of this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[14.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the morning of 16 October this year there was a fire and explosion in warehouse building number 16 in the premises of the Military Technical Institute in the village of Vlachovice-Vrbětice, followed by the explosion of another ammunition warehouse number 12 in this area on 3 December this morning. The buildings are about one kilometer apart and are rented to the same private company. It is therefore ammunition warehouses that are operated in a building belonging to the Military Technical Institute, which is a state enterprise established by the Ministry of Defence. The ammunition stored in these warehouses under contract is owned by a private company. The contract on the basis of which the ammunition was stored in these premises was concluded between this private company and the Military Technical Institute in 2011. Thus, since 2011, a contractual relationship started, on the basis of which these buildings were leased and on the basis of which ammunition was stored in these buildings. As a result of these events that I have described, the components of the integrated rescue system are exposed to a unique situation that is difficult to compare with any other event that we have experienced in the Czech Republic or in Czechoslovakia in the last few decades. Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and the army solve this situation with the maximum deployment of personal and technical capacities. The hit on the site itself is solved at the highest special level of alarm. At the local tactical level, the director of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the Czech Republic Zlínský kraj is the commander of the intervention. Coordination of emergency resolution is ensured by the Governor and from 26 November this year ensures central coordination of rescue and liquidation work by the Ministry of Interior, in particular the coordination of the activities of central administrative offices. The aim of the state process is to eliminate any risks to the safety of persons, their health, their lives and, of course, to eliminate risks to their property. The absolute priority of the state in this context is therefore the safety of persons. In my opinion, the current course of action can be assessed as professional and consistent with the requirements laid down by the law on the integrated rescue system. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context I would like to appreciate the work of pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic services of the Police of the Czech Republic, who carry out the necessary tasks every day in the middle of the minefield. I must say that the work of these people is extremely demanding, they are those who actually have to deal with this difficult situation in a given place, they have to make decisions to prevent damage to human health and human property. These people must be greatly thanked for their commitment and bravery. At the same time, the matter is under investigation by the Police of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as the real circumstances on the ground permit, the remaining ammunition will be carried out to customers in other stores of owners. I would like to stress that. The primary point is that the ammunition is taken away by those who own it, who stored it in these objects, and also there is the possibility of transporting ammunition to reactivated ammunition storage in the Ministry of Defence in May. Warehouses in May will be secured in accordance with military standards, security will be provided by members of the Army of the Czech Republic and also the presence of a separate fire protection unit will be ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to draw conclusions for future government procedures and for future changes that are necessary in particular in the field of legislation. These are amendments to the legislation governing the handling of ammunition in our country. There are currently several legal regimes that are not sufficiently linked to this area. Each of these laws also provides for a different form of control for entities handling ammunition. The mutual coordination of the supervisory authorities is rather weak in the state. In my view, shortcomings can also be seen in the fact that, in all relevant legislation, ammunition is dealt with rather by supplemental and applicable provisions do not often take into account the essential safety characteristics of the handling of ammunition. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning, since the events that took place on 16 October this year, the government has been paying particular attention to events in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. We have repeatedly addressed this issue on the basis of a proposal by the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence. Every time and at the moment when the government was asked to decide on the procedure, e.g. It was the deployment of members of the Army of the Czech Republic, and the government complied with these proposals without delay. The issue of the situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice was also addressed in addition to the government meeting of the extraordinary meeting of the Bureau of the Security Council of the State, which took place in Slavicín. Following the recommendation of the extraordinary Bureau of the Security Council of the State, the government decided to significantly strengthen the deployment of members and funds of the Army of the Czech Republic in the locality. At the same time, in addition to the fact that the government has dealt with this crisis situation, we also focus on the analysis of the rule of law and on preparing clear concrete measures that will not only concern Vlachovic-Vrbětice, but will concern the whole Czech Republic and how the state progresses and acts in the field of ammunition management. A revision of legislation is absolutely necessary; a strengthening of the control system is absolutely necessary. These specific recommendations will be addressed in the meeting of the Security Council of the State, which will meet on 22 December this year. I assume that this meeting will give concrete recommendations for the Government's procedure, and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Industry and Trade will have to propose appropriate legislative changes in a short time. My aim as Prime Minister is not only to ensure that this crisis situation is resolved safely in Vlachovice-Vrbětice, but also to guarantee citizens that 2015 will be a year that we will use for all necessary legislative changes. I would also like to ask the Chamber of Deputies as soon as possible, as soon as we submit these proposals to the Chamber of Deputies in the spring of next year, so that the legislation and its amendments can be approved as soon as possible. [[14.30 hours]] But it's not just legislation. It is also about the state being able to physically exercise control of the handling of ammunition in the Czech Republic. These are also procedures that are elected in the authorisation of ammunition trading not only in the Czech Republic but also from the Czech Republic abroad. I am very concerned about the information I received about the reductions that took place in the relevant department of the Police of the Czech Republic, which is to be responsible for the control of ammunition in our country. Control of the ammo that's in the hands of private subjects. Ladies and gentlemen, the competent police department in charge of this matter has been reduced by 30 per cent in recent years. By 30%, its personnel capacity was reduced, and it was evident that the scope of the activity had not decreased and the scope of the trafficking of ammunition and this material in the Czech Republic had not decreased. Despite this, in recent years, this special police force has been significantly reduced in this way. Then we cannot be surprised that there may not be enough control frequencies, and if we want to strengthen the frequency of controls, increase their quality, then it is obvious that the government will also have to deal with whether we have sufficient personnel capacity for this. I, as Prime Minister, have from the very beginning rejected any competence ping-pong between individual state institutions. At the time of the explosion on 16 October, I noted a debate about who is actually responsible for checking who is the owner of the building, what should be the role of individual state institutions. I think that what we need now is the maximum possible level of cooperation between all the State actors who are competent in this area. Firstly, the absolutely necessary level of cooperation in eliminating this crisis situation between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the municipalities concerned and also the Zlín Region. In the second phase of cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Industry, the Mining Office and other competent institutions in setting up and improving the system of control of the handling of ammunition and explosives in the territory of the Czech Republic. So, at this point, we need clear cooperation, not a shift of responsibility, not alibiism, and I believe that there will certainly also be an opportunity, without a doubt, on the basis of the results of the police investigation that is ongoing, to return to the issues of responsibility for creating the condition that has occurred in Vlachovice and Vrbětice. Again, it is a contractual relationship that was established between the State and private entities in particular in 2011, in some cases even earlier, and even here it is necessary to assess whether this was a happy state policy, that the state-owned buildings were leased to private companies that are trading and handling ammunition. I think it really was wrong that in Vlachovice-Vrbětice, without any consideration from the point of view of the state's crisis planning, such a strong concentration of ammunition was created with which private entities are entitled to handle. In my opinion, the state has not been in a good situation, and this is also confirmed by the crisis that occurred after these explosions occurred. I would very much like to thank not only the members of the integrated rescue system, police officers, firefighters, soldiers, but also the citizens of the surrounding communities, thank you for your understanding, because security measures were needed to protect their lives and health. Unfortunately, the security measure included temporary evacuation, but I am convinced that the Police of the Czech Republic could not have acted differently at the time when they had information that the municipalities concerned could possibly be threatened could possibly be affected. So I would also like to thank the citizens of the communities concerned for their understanding. I would like to promise that the government will do everything possible to resolve this crisis in a safe, reliable way. As soon as possible from the point of view of safety, to initiate the removal of ammunition from this area. I've had the opportunity to visit these places twice in the last few weeks. Of course, what interests citizens is a matter of security at the moment. Citizens are interested in how quickly the state will be able to eliminate the risks, especially by moving ammunition from this area. But what interests citizens in these municipalities is also the future fate of this entire state property, i.e. complex in Vlachovice-Vrbětice, which now owns the Military Technical Institute. I consider it absolutely necessary that, as long as remediation is carried out there, and the question is, how long will the bailout take after the ammunition is taken away, so it is absolutely essential that this property remains in the hands of the state, and after the bailout is completed, so I believe that the government should conduct a dialogue with the municipalities concerned, to have a dialogue with the region on the future use of this state property. Its future use and treatment should be implemented in such a way that it has a full understanding of the population of the municipalities concerned. I think that these people deserve this because of what they were exposed to from 16 October this year, and they deserve to be sure that the government will not treat this property on their backs, that it will consult them on the future use of this property and that the property will not be privatised or treated in such a way that any risks can arise there for the safety of citizens in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, so briefly from the Prime Minister's point of view on this subject. I want to promise that the government will address these issues, will also address them systemically in the form of an appropriate change in legislation, rules and resetting of the control system. And let me now ask for the completion of this speech by the Minister of the Interior and then by the Minister of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before we go any further, I'll read the note that came to me. As of 14.20, for family reasons today, Mr Adam Petr apologizes, today from 14.30, Vice-President Filip apologizes for health reasons, and for the entire 24th session of the Chamber of Deputies for health reasons, Mr Zlatuška apologizes. Thank you. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me say for myself and our club that we welcome this meeting so that we can clarify some white places. On the other hand, I want to say that the investigation that is going on and is really being conducted by the IOOZ, i.e. organized crime specialists, is in a phase reserved, i.e. it's not possible to give more detailed information about this investigation unless we want to thwart the investigation, and we certainly don't want to thwart that. It's been talking for a long time and it's speculating about how big the compound is. The area is 10 km long. It's a huge area with 50 objects in it. In 27 of these objects, and most of them have a range of 500 to 1000 m2, in 27 ammunition was stored. I spent a long time here, reading that there were different hunts and there were some races, car races and others, so I asked the Police of the Czech Republic because those who are talking about it, I have no reason to doubt that it was there. I've been there at least twice in recent times and I've seen some photographs of at least those races, so I've asked the Police of the Czech Republic how many incentives have been filed there in the past, or criminal announcements that these things have happened there. Because if there were ammo warehouses all over the place and cars were running around, I assumed someone would file a criminal report or a complaint. According to what the police have given me, no criminal complaint or complaint has been filed in the Czech Police over the last five years. Those are the facts. I cannot speculate about what is - not true, these are the facts I can talk about. I'd like to thank the IZS files, too. First of all, I want to thank the police, their bomb squad. I was with them at eight o'clock this morning when they left to remove the grenade from the roof, and I have to say, they're great professionals who were arguing with each other not about who was going to go, but who wasn't going to. Everyone wanted to go. I also want to thank the firefighters. We have a special unit from Hlučín, Zbiroh, and we meet these firemen all over the Czech Republic when there is a problem. Let it be floods, let it be landslide in South Moravia, let it be the situation we are now experiencing in Vrbětice. I assume that both Mr. Vice President and Mr. Mayor will confirm that all the citizens I was able to meet have said a great thank you both to the police and to the firefighters. I want to thank the army, too. The army is currently involved in the police's performance and participates in this on the basis of the Czech Government's resolution and at the request of the police. Therefore, thanks belong to the Army of the Czech Republic. After the second explosion, and November 24th, the crime was re-qualified as a deliberate offense, so after the second explosion the Police Presidium subsequently expanded the investigation team under the supervision of the regional prosecutor and the investigation took over the Police Presidium. This enabled the deployment of specialized components such as ÚOOZ, and the current investigation is conducted by the Regional Exposition of the ÚOOZ in Ostrava. [[14.40 hours]] I would also like to set some figures straight. At present, the Police of the Czech Republic is registering about three thousand subjects they control. 2 122 entities shall be licensed for the so-called arms purposes or for the arms licence of all groups. Only 21 entities in the Czech Republic operate warehouses this large. These warehouses are 28. Subsequently, after the first explosion, in agreement with the Prime Minister and in agreement with the Government, we ordered the Police of the Czech Republic to carry out random checks especially on these large operators of these warehouses. 18 inspections were carried out, 17 working teams were assigned to this. In the report you have been in front of you since this morning, which was processed by the Ministry of the Interior, you have been finding four of these subjects. We cannot specify which ones, because of course there will be administrative proceedings, which are not public, therefore there are merely indications of errors which have been noted, so that you know that these are not errors of a fundamental nature that threaten the environment and the safety of the population. Nevertheless, these checks are carried out. Police of the Czech Republic, which together with the Mining Authority, which controls explosives, especially industrial ones, and is a big question and spoke about it by the Prime Minister, the vagueness of the interpretation of Czech law, if the dust spills out of the mine or from the artillery charge, whether it becomes explosive at that moment or is still military material, and that is one of the reasons why we want to refine legislation, also in the building in Vrbetice in several premises or several buildings the Mining Office had its supervision. We need to synchronize this surveillance so that both the Mining Authority and the police, as well as the army, which supervises some special explosives, so that there are some synergy effects of joint control and common approach. Of course, the Police of the Czech Republic is also involved in inspections of the Fire Rescue Corps. The license for granting foreign export companies is in the administration of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is talking to the security forces of the state for granting these licences, whether it be the police, whether it be our secret services, of course it asks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and asks other relevant elements, which are listed by the law. On this basis, the companies will then receive or not receive an export licence. Above all, there is a crucial position in our targeting of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that we do not export this ammunition to countries where it is not in the interest of the Czech State. In my nature, I'm prepared to answer your questions. I can still comment on some media statements. For example, the statement that we should have asked for military bomb squads. Well, we couldn't. We discussed the matter very seriously, but given that this is a crime scene, at present only police bomb squads must move to this place. If we don't want to mess up the investigation, and we certainly don't want that, the presence of military specialists is not possible at the moment. We count on the agreement with colleague Stropnický that the moment the investigation is completed and this area will be cleaned up, and will be cleaned for several years, we will of course ask the army for help. The question, however, is that the government should prioritize or increase the number of pyrotechnics, because we still have the decontamination of Brd and some other areas within the Czech Republic. At least I know one more place in South Moravia that also needs decontamination. And the question is, to what extent we will have to strengthen the bombing service. That means military specialists couldn't be used. If we didn't want to mess up the investigation, we simply couldn't use it. Other media outputs I've noticed - that evacuations were unnecessary. Don't be mad at me, it's probably easier to talk about it from the safety of the living room, and otherwise it's the bomb squad that's on the scene. Evacuation is decided by bomb squads on the spot who know the situation, assess the risks - the risk of fire, the risk of others associated with this matter. In both of these evacuations, it was about the perimeter being set at 1.2 km. Both villages were in this perimeter and had to be evacuated. If bomb squads are not sure on site and these are the seven and nine-day periods, they ask for help and opinion from the so-called bomb squad. In this pyrotechnic committee there are specialists across the police who specialize in pyrotechnics... [[The Minister was silent, because several ČSSD MEPs laughed.]] I don't think there's anything so funny about that. So be it. Who specialize in pyrotechnics and who advise bombers on how to approach the matter. In both cases, i.e. in determining seven and nine days of so-called non-image period, this bomb squad, this bomb squad, met on this issue. It wasn't the will of the strike commander, but it was an expert opinion that went on here. I can also comment on some information that information has not been provided on time and accuracy. I was saving that information like a saffron because I didn't want to make the situation unsettling. The information given here by the Prime Minister, I repeat, was given the information from us that day, and at that time the crisis team met and it was telemosty from Prague and Zlín, after the second explosion, to clarify the situation, when at four o'clock in the afternoon we were able to confirm that the second warehouse had exploded after the take-off of the military helicopter. Until then, both the Police of the Czech Republic and the commander of the intervention, the fire rescue corps declared that it was an explosion from the site of the original explosion, so it was not another subject. That's the only misinformation that leaked into the media space. I can apologize for her as much as I can, but at the time, we didn't have any information about it being any different. Only at 16 p.m., when the military helicopter took off, and the drone wasn't available, we found another warehouse that blew up was on fire. That's the only misinformation or inaccurate information that came out here. Again, the Prime Minister received this information from the Police of the Czech Republic through me. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I am prepared to answer your questions, which are not included in this material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister. I'll read another apology that arrived. Today, at 14:00, Mr. Jiří Junek apologizes. I will now ask Mr. Defense Minister Stropnický to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you also to those honourable colleagues who have not only raised this extraordinary meeting with their interest but who are also taking part in it. The explosion of one of the buildings located on the premises of Vrbětice was on 16 October this year, it may be a bit forgotten, but first of all also a tragic event for two Imex Group employees and their closest. Whether it was an incredible coincidence or a semi-accident, or someone's evil intent, or whether there are other causes, that will definitely answer us when the police investigation. According to the information we all have, mostly from the open sources, the police have several options, several ways in which they conduct the investigation. I would appeal too much to everyone to give the police time now. When we talk about media space, apart from where it is positive and where people receive the necessary information in real time, unfortunately, in many cases there is also room for incredible speculation and, in some cases, pure truths. Some of them, I must say, have damaged the good name of the Ministry of Defence and, in particular, the Army of the Czech Republic. It's not fair. Especially in the light of how military personnel, as well as the Ministry of Defence, approach to solving something they didn't do. And, of course, I welcome, like my previous speakers, the opportunity to speak on this subject and, of course, I am ready to answer any questions you may have. [[14.50 hours]] I'd like us to clear one more term, please. In public space it is still possible to register the phrase "army or military warehouse." I understand what a media shortcut is, but that's just not true. The warehouse in Vrbetice has had nothing to do with the Army of the Czech Republic since 2007, i.e. many years. For seven years, all the competent authorities of both government and self-government, but also local residents - because the warehouses were one of the largest employers in the region between 2008 and 2011, there was a demolition of ammunition - known that there was no army, but companies with different legal personality - state enterprise, joint stock companies, s.r.o. etc. The Military Technical Institute, which, as it may already be clear and known, is a state enterprise, i.e. a legal entity fully responsible for its activities, currently has this state property in its administration. He has his duties in Vrbětice, he has his powers in Vrbětice, and they have their limits. Let me at least briefly give you some kind of genesis on this whole case. The army ammunition warehouse was built in 1936. It was completed during the occupation by the German army. From 1945 until 2006 it was used by the Czechoslovak army and then by the Czech army. The decision to terminate the need was made as Minister Jiří šedivý and the transfer to the VOP for Minister Vlasta Parkanová. Since 2007, the premises have been used by the state company VOP Šternberk to delabor the unnecessary ammunition of the Army of the Czech Republic. At that time he was one of the most important employers in the region, as I have already mentioned. Gradually, as warehouse objects were emptied, they were rented to external entities. Currently valid lease agreements with commercial entities are as follows: Bochemie Company, 2009 contract and then three contracts from 2011 in the case of Imex Group, Excalibur Army and STV Group. In 2012 there was transfer of the premises from VOP to VTÚVM Slavičín, or division of the Military Technical Institute directly in Slavičín. He used to make ammo on the premises, and he also stored it. All tenants who stored ammunition in individual buildings are holders of a license for the handling of weapons and ammunition, and, as was said and known, the license is issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the provision of appropriate benefits to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Defence. Compliance with these licenses is then controlled by the Police of the Czech Republic and the Czech Mining Authority, if it concerns explosives in the latter case. There are 61 objects on the premises, and I think I've already said that there are 26 of them that are used to store ammunition and explosives. What we did as a resort after the explosion. The first information came to all IZS files at 9.51 on Thursday, October 16. Followed by the intervention of professional and subsequently voluntary firefighters, which was interrupted at the increasing intensity of explosions. A representative of the Military Technical Institute arrived immediately after the explosion, an officer of the Military Fire Control and Military Police from their centre in Olomouc also arrived an hour after the explosion. The company subsequently provided equipment, materials, personnel, premises, food, fuel and participated in rescue work as required by the IZS. Among other things, he deployed an unmanned drone that was quite an essential helper in detecting the extent of damage and damage to individual objects. By the way, the VTÚ still covers a significant proportion of the costs associated with the intervention of all the components from its budget. Interesting is it, and maybe it is one of those surprising circumstances, which, by the way, they create - but I hope to get to it and it has already been mentioned here by the Prime Minister - an incredible accumulation of various laws and regulations and other circumstances, which in some way affect the events and in the event of the accident in a fundamental way affect the individual steps and create a pretty inconspicuous and transparent sort of playground for what is to be held. It is as if someone almost purposely wants to create something dysfunctional and, on the one hand, complementary, on the other hand, seemingly even contradictory. That's certainly one of the lessons to be learned from this whole unfortunate incident. So VTÚ as a state enterprise falling under MO, respectively. established by MO, is still subject to military fire control. If we just take this one aspect, then the whole area or buildings used by the VTÚ work in military fire control. All buildings rented to private entities then work, let's say, in civilian fire control. And there are a number of parallel standards that govern traffic on the premises. Neither the VTÚ nor the tenants have an obligation to report to the IRS unless they store highly dangerous material, meaning flammable material, which is paradoxically not ammunition. Another peculiarity, say, or misleading circumstance. However, the obligation of these operators to operate under the Fire Protection Act is to process the prescribed fire protection documentation. That's what individual subjects are supposed to do, not landlords. I'm putting it not as a comprehensive explanation, but just as an example of how a thing that isn't that complicated can be difficult to name. I must say that, with the full seriousness and responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and the military, they responded to the demands and the situation in general promptly and, of course, helpfully, in proportion to the fact that the situation was serious. And so it is until now, of course. We respond to all requests for assistance from the commander of the intervention with speed as much as physically possible. In favour of handling the situation we have allocated highly qualified personnel, up to 500 members of the army, and this is taking place these days, but also the best technology, mobile command post, pandury with thermal imaging, night vision and camera system, which these soldiers have in the armament and which will significantly increase the security of securing the area, which is not a physical force possible to implement. Since October 16th - and I would just like to repeat this and maybe by this I will avoid some questions, it is not from the alibism - the whole area and everything in it is outside the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence or the Military Technical Institute. We only provide maximum synergies. Police, virtually. The government decided to move the ammunition and the Ministry of Defence in the required - and I must say that very short - deadline ensured the technical operation of the already preserved ammunition warehouse in Květná. The term is the 13th. Today's the 12th. So, at 24.00 in May, the Military Police will start patrolling. Bureau of the Security Council of the State on 6. 12. It also decided to set up an inter-ministerial team on legal issues related to solving this emergency. I've already appointed a specific person who will be available from next week, I think, from Tuesday, right on the spot. We will consider how many days a week, as needed. It is the head of my advisors, General Bohuslav Dvořák, who will be available to the mayors and citizens on site. He will be able to apply and collect citizens' requests for compensation in his office and, of course, he should be such a liaison where necessary, where citizens will have questions about the activities of the military, where they will be able to ask for anything necessary. [[15.00 hours]] It's not entirely my monopolized authority, not at all. But the human element was a little absent. It was a clear mistake of the Military Technical Institute, local, and I hope this will also help to calm the situation. The thematics are so wide. I apologize to all those who have not found answers to any of my questions in my words, but, as I say, I am prepared to answer them subsequently. I'd say one thing already. My subjective feeling that the ambiguity of legal standards and regulations, whether it be fire protection, control of the handling of ammunition, maybe also licensing or supervision of licences, but also the transport of this material, all this is a great and necessary opportunity to see how it works in the Czech Republic in this sector, and undoubtedly propose some positive changes in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Minister. We would now move on to the debate. Just for the record, I want to ask. I have here, with a factual remark, Mrs Váhalová. A real point doesn't apply, thank you. And then I have Mrs. Vice-President Černochová here with priority rights, but I want to ask you one thing. I have Mr. Mayor Hověžák here for the debate. If we were guests, we wouldn't give him the first word, and then you'd get off with priority rights. Thank you. So, Mr. Mayor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u8	Madam Government, Madam President, honourable Members, I wish you a good afternoon. I am very grateful that you have convened an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the events that are taking place in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. I am the mayor of this community, and I want to thank you, on behalf of our citizens, for your serious concern with the situation in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. I don't want to politicize the events of the last few days. After the first explosion on October 16th, we were all scared. However, we thought the state had things under control. We and our fellow mayors from around here tried to prevent the risk of repeating tragedy. We therefore called on Mr Stropnický to know what really happened the second day after the first explosion of Mr Stropnický's defense minister. The scarier thing was that it happened again. The second explosion came from the compound, which had an impact on the citizens even worse. The premises are completely secured these days, but the ammunition is not taken away. I must point out that we have had some difficult times in recent weeks. Instead of preparing Christmas, we feel fear for families and our homes. I wouldn't want to lecture anyone here today. Let us all consider how this situation has happened and what mistakes the state has made in resolving it. I remind you that the ammunition in the state's stocks was stored by private companies, but this does not relieve the State of its obligation to ensure the protection of our citizens' lives, health and property. After these events, I believe that there must be clear rules for State action in similar cases. In addition, strict rules must be laid down for the operation of such objects, which must also be complied with unconditionally by private entities, and the State must actively control and enforce compliance with these rules. Next time, you can't wait for an explosion and then be caught off guard. I would therefore ask the government to ensure an objective, careful and rapid investigation of this crime. What did I come here to ask for? I ask that all leases be terminated in the warehouses so that the ammunition is temporarily secured by the state, demolished and taken away. I would also like to clarify what particular ammunition is actually found in storage. Of course, I wish all ammo were taken best by Christmas, but that is certainly not possible. We will experience our holidays in fear, and there is no doubt that we deserve an appropriate apology. I therefore welcomed the words of the Minister of Finance that compensation belongs to the citizens of the municipalities concerned. I do not want to cause any panic, but on behalf of our citizens, I ask that the state of such tragedies be preceded. This means a clear security concept of the State as well as of the storage of ammunition, a transparent legal basis, compliance with and enforcement of the established rules, effective control by the responsible authorities of the State and punishment of the culprits in the event of misconduct. Please consider this a homing challenge, or a memento from Vlachovic, which should never happen again and ever again. I am prepared with my fellow mayors from the surrounding communities with the state, government, but also with you, Members of Parliament, to cooperate as much as possible in order to achieve this joint task. Finally, I would like to thank you for listening to me and ask you to adopt a resolution that would be a clear message to our citizens. At the same time, I believe that such a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies or the Government or any other body of the state, including law enforcement authorities, will not take lightly. In conclusion, let me thank all members of the integrated rescue system who are taking care of our safety as sincerely as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm making one point of fact. Madam Vice-President, I apologize, Mr Soukup, with a point of fact. [[Black]] Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to delay. I just want to express my opinion as an MP and as a citizen. I was very shocked and unpleasantly surprised by the fact that the state had given up in the past and let go of such things as the handling of such dangerous material. I hope it doesn't lead to private armies forming here. Anyway, I'll get to the point. Quite seriously. Many of us received a letter from Vrbětice yesterday and the day before yesterday. I would quote at least two things out of him, and I would like to be answered. In addition to the smiling story about testing racing cars, it is shocking that foreign buyers from risk destinations and with the assistance of temps who opened their crates were picking goods along the premises. - I'd like to know if I can get an answer. And another one. At the same time, information was leaked from the Military Technical Institute that the territory was threatened within 50 km of the explosion. To this day, information on 50 SS-20 missiles or ground-to-air rockets has not been illuminated. I'm asking you to answer this information. I hope they're not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since you were the first to speak in the debate, I will make you rapporteur for this point and ask you to sit in the rapporteur's seat. I have another point of fact here, with which Mr Jiří Koskuba is reporting. You have your word, Congressman, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for acting like this at the beginning of another extraordinary meeting that we have certainly become accustomed to. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a number of you after me, but I want to warn you. I am very impressed by the mayor's speech here, and I am asking you very much for one thing, because I am a doctor and we are always trying to find etiology. [[15.10 hours]] We will certainly hear many interesting words, perhaps even touching words, but no one will convince me, ladies and gentlemen, that the main core of the poodle is really what the mayor indicated that private companies are taking care of such serious ammunition. I'd hate to look like a socan who wants to nationalize everything. But ladies and gentlemen, an extraordinary meeting has been convened where the honourable House of Parliament of the Czech Republic wonders, or wonders, and adopts a resolution that we live in a country where private companies take care of such dangerous ammunition, and we are here discussing the laws that we allow to buy a flovert and who doesn't. If you think about it, it's a pretty rusty painting. The government or part of it that sits behind me, I don't think she's responsible for this. But I can tell you for myself, if you want to reach this next extraordinary meeting, then I will understand why it is here. Because with just words, we can't stop it from happening again. It's not normal from my point of view. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Černochová and after that with priority rights, President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an important topic today, not only by what has happened, but mainly because, instead of crisis management, we see only chaos at regional and government level. Very controversial in my opinion is the role of the Governor of the Zlín Region of Mišák, who did not declare a state of danger after the explosion of the warehouse or initiated a state of emergency. If I were him, I certainly wouldn't sleep peacefully. I am also the mayor of the city district, which has a number of risky objects on its territory, the river Vltava, the brook Botič. And without this card, I don't go on vacation, I don't go into the woods, I just carry this card that deals with crisis management in case something happens, and all the contact details and phone numbers are on it, I still carry it with me. [[shows the color card]] The reaction of the management of the Zlín Region shows signs of unpreparedness to a similar situation. Of course, this is an event that we have never faced in modern history, and there is no experience. However, the fact that there is a hazardous material warehouse in the territory of the Zlín Region is certainly not new, and it is therefore appropriate to ask whether and to what extent the regional crisis plan envisaged this fact and the related risks. Mr. General Mišák's actions and some of his comments suggest that the region's readiness for such a situation was very small. This is striking, in particular, given the fact that the Governor is not a rookie in his capacity, but has been the Governor for six years. He is therefore the longest-serving commander of the Zlín Region. For example, Mr. Governor Mišák had no idea that the ammunition warehouse at Vrbětice no longer served the army! And that it should therefore be included in the regional crisis plan. So perhaps in response to what Minister chovanec also said - if this were included in the regional crisis plan, so would you, as Minister of the Interior, out of your jurisdiction, specifically Act No. 240/2000 Coll., I suspect this is § 10 para. 1c, where the Ministry of the Interior has a clear definition of what the Ministry of the Interior is supposed to control and enforce on the authorities and regions. I am literally quoting: "The Ministry of the Interior carries out control of ensuring the readiness of other ministries and other central authorities or administrations to deal with crisis situations and, in cooperation with the relevant Ministry, carries out control of regional crisis plans'. I would therefore like to ask Minister Chovanec how often the Ministry of the Interior applies this legal competence. How often he controls regional crisis plans. And what possible improvement, if this is not the case, will the Minister propose, or what responsibility and responsibility the Minister chovanec will assume for not doing so. If there were a state of crisis or at least a state of danger, it would be possible, Minister Chovanč, for example, to immediately involve members of the Army of the Czech Republic in security of the premises, warehouses or other purposes, and we would not have to witness the Filipik between you and Minister of Defense Stropnický, when Minister of Defence Stropnickýý offered you his bomb squad and you rejected them with the fact that it is a crime scene and therefore they are not authorized. In the event that your commander, the captain for the CSSD, Mr. Mišák, your party colleague, did not fail, this would not be a problem! The army could normally have been there from day one, and not that this is happening really now, even limitedly, after almost two months. I also wonder if Mr. Governor Mišák is calling the Regional Security Council. As mayor, I have it at least twice a year. I'll always meet the new fire chief there, the relevant police director for the area, i.e. In my case II, there are other representatives from crisis management sitting there, telling each other new information, telling each other new facts. Like, for example, I think we've got an icy surface somewhere, and we can get into trouble if we can get out of this area of ammonia. How we prepare for this, how we evacuate people. This is all the role of self-government. That's why we have self-government, that's why people vote for self-government, Minister Chovanč. The Governor is inclined to claim that declaring a crisis situation would result in a multi-track procedure, as the mayors of the municipalities concerned would appear to be in the position of the authorities responsible and would decide on the progress of their work on their territory. According to his statement, the extraordinaryness of this situation called for intervention to have "the only professional commander deciding on all procedures." But if these claims were absolutely valid, then the state of danger and crisis could never be declared at all! Not even in the flood! In addition, the Governor states that since it was an emergency with a state organisation set up by the Ministry of Defence in a state property, it is neither appropriate nor permissible to interfere with the competence of the State by any authority of the self-government. After all, there was nothing easier than declaring an emergency or an emergency that would allow the immediate occupation of the army! So I am asking, and I am sorry that only Mr. Governor's statutory representative is here, that the Governor is not here to make these matters clear. I think that the error and chaining of all subsequent events really arose at the very beginning. In the beginning, which I'm describing to you right now. On the whole, it is striking that criticism of the leadership of the Zlín Region sounds primarily from the mouth of some members of the government. If hetman Mišák has failed, why didn't the government itself act faster, Prime Minister, and why didn't it put pressure on the leadership of the Zlín Region itself, on your party colleague, to declare a state of crisis? By any chance, are you discussing any internal disputes that are the subject of your coming convention? And isn't it about maybe you don't want to mess with some of your colleagues? [[15.20 hours]] Why, Prime Minister, are you covering for your captain, who apparently failed as one who is at the head of the regional office, as one who has the responsibility that the citizens have given him in his hands and who rely on taking care of them in the event of imminent danger? If the governor had failed, the government should have reacted faster and not so that 16. Ten, it blew up, 30. 10th to Prime Minister Sobotka kindly convened an extraordinary government meeting at 3. 11. 2014. Please, 17 days after the explosion! Dear colleagues, do you think this procedure is quite okay? It is apparent from all over the government and from its response that, at the first stage of the tragedy, it did not realise the gravity of the situation, and the meeting that I was talking about was convened by the Prime Minister on the 18th day from the beginning, although some colleagues from Dawn and my colleagues repeatedly called for this point at the House's meeting, we want information. If you would have listened to us then, we could have prevented the situation that occurred there last week, when people had to be evacuated even twice. The performances and statements of individual members of the government in recent days and weeks in relation to the explosion of the ammunition warehouse resemble the tossing of the proverbial hot potato. In particular, in view of the scale of this tragedy and the threat that local citizens have been exposed to, this is truly inappropriate. It is ridiculous that some government members, instead of trying to resolve this situation, need only defend themselves as Prime Minister and relieve their fellow party members of responsibility! It is clear that the culprit of the situation will be difficult to find, and the priority of all of us should be to resolve the situation in order to secure the ammunition warehouse and its surroundings so that local residents are no longer in danger and to clear the premises as soon as possible. I find the charges between the members of the government absolutely absurd at this point! Enough has been said about the revision of legislation and other crisis regulations. It is also important that the events of the past days and weeks be analysed as soon as possible and that the relevant legislation and other related regulations be revised in order to prevent such tragedies in the future. I would recommend to the ministers, especially Minister Chovanc, but also to the Prime Minister, such a nice reading for the weekend. [[It shows a printed document.]] It's not fiction, it's Law No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws. In this law, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior will read how the situation was to be dealt with from the first day. I am sorry that the Deputy Prime Minister Babiš has not been present, who has made several statements in relation to the explosion of the ammunition warehouse in recent days, which have shifted the matter almost into conspiracy theories. There is no way I want to reduce the share of Imex Group's liability in this matter or in any way express my confidence in its credibility. These are things the police have to investigate properly. However, it really is not understandable for Minister Babiš to comment on whether or not the owner will visit his business instead of his business. The creation of any conspiracy stories from this relatively common reality is indeed bordering on the spread of alarm messages, and Minister Babiš clearly does not realize that he is a member of a government that should certainly not develop or spread such rumors. Making any conclusions about the background of Imex Group, whether or not the Ministry of Defence should rent warehouses to this company, whether or not this company has traded legally, is not really the role of a member of the government, but it is the role of law enforcement authorities. I do not understand how Mr Babiš actually creates and expands these speculations, and de facto makes it difficult for the police to do so. If, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, if you are looking at us or if you are reading the log, you have any evidence of your claim, then you should first of all hand them over to the police, not to be populist and in order to benefit from this unfortunate event by shouting the maximum political points into the cameras. Thank you. My last request and series of questions are for Mr. Defense Minister Stropnický, and these questions concern in particular property responsibility and related issues. Minister Stropnický, I assume you know the content of the contracts concluded by a state enterprise with the companies in question, and that you have already had them examined and found out if there is something mysterious, wrong, as your party colleague Mr Babiš suggests. After all, nearly two months have passed since the explosions, so perhaps enough time has passed, and I don't expect these lease agreements to be fundamentally complex and complex. I would also like to ask who, according to the contracts, was responsible for ammunition warehouses and for securing them. Were they firms, or was it the Military Technical Institute? My next question is: Is there an insurance policy? Who's gonna pay for the damage? Next question: Who was in charge of security control? In part, the Minister has already answered this question, but I would just like to repeat whether it was the police, the state enterprise, or the companies concerned. They're already calling on the company to ask the state for compensation for a fucked-up intervention. I'm sure it could be a diversion tactic, but still. If there are disputes, I would now like to be assured that we will not all ultimately pay the damage - taxpayers. There is also information about the fact that warehouses were rented for low amounts and so on. I even heard information that maybe some of the objects were even sold. Can you please tell us, Minister, how contracts are built in terms of rent or ownership relations? Did you find any fault in them? Your experts also calculated that the transfer of ammunition to May and the re-operation of the warehouse could cost up to approximately CZK 100 million. Who's gonna pay for this in the end? Will it be this government that will recover the costs from those companies, or will the government accept that it is something like a circumstance vis maior and this disaster will be paid by taxpayers? I know that the investigation has not yet ended and that, Minister, you may not be able to answer all my questions completely, but I would still ask you to at least answer those concerning the lease agreements, because there is nothing secret about them. We know that there is a Law 106 on free access to information, and I do not believe that contracts, where on the one hand there is an organisation representing the State to a certain extent and concluding a standard lease relationship, should be subject to some secrecy. And I think that if these contracts were to be declassified, there would be a number of different speculations between your government colleagues. So I thank you for your attention and I apologize for being so long, but the matter is really very difficult and I have been quite intensive in the last few days and I would like to know the answers to the questions from the Prime Minister, Minister Chovanec and Minister Stropnický. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u15	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs Černochová, and now I have a shrink of factual remarks. First of all, Mr Kořenek, Mr Fiedler after him, Mr Klučka after him, etc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Of course the situation is serious. We have a representative of the region, a deputy governor, who will comment on the progress of the region, but through the President, I would ask the previous speaker: Madame, why did you not tell everyone that it was your governments since 2007 that concluded these contracts in 2011?! [[Applause for Members of the ČSSD and KSČM.]] Why didn't you tell these people that this government was just pulling hot chestnuts out of the fire, that the region was solving problems that right-wing governments caused? You like to point out what this government is supposed to do and how it does it, but you're forgetting the mess you've done in your years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. Mr Fiedler, then Mr Klučka, then Mr Ondráček, Mrs Černochová, Mr Mackovík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u18	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. I would just follow up briefly on the words of my colleague, Černochová, who mentioned Law 240 here. I would also mention Act No.59/2006 Coll., which I believe will clearly explain a number of things. This is where we've always witnessed an argument about whether it's a military object or a private object. Minister Stropnický - he is no longer here - was told that the building has been private since 2007. Therefore, Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 does not apply. 3 of this law says: This law does not apply to military objects and military equipment. And I will quickly quote further from him: § 12 - today it was stated in the Law that Imex does not have insurance - so Section 12 says that the operator is obliged to arrange liability insurance for damage caused by a major accident. Further in this law we find in § 32: The Regional Authority keeps records of contracts for liability insurance caused by a major accident. Here I turn again to the regional representative. And I would like to follow up on what has been said here that, in my opinion, the regional authority did not do as it should have done, because in Section 34, it is said to carry out checks, and it is mentioned here what is the subject of these checks. So if we want to do a little bit about what was supposed to be and what wasn't supposed to be, I recommend that we all read this paragraph, that is, this law No. 59/2006 Coll., which says quite clearly, lays down rules on the prevention of major accidents caused by selected hazardous chemicals or chemical products. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you. I'm logged in to a proper discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u19	I thank Mr Fiedler. With another factual remark, Mr Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have taken a factual point so that I may not be blamed for being a chatty MP. A colleague of mine, Černochová, has said here that we need to get back to the beginning. We're different at the beginning. She means the disaster that started there. I think at the beginning of the problem exactly in 2011, when the object leaves the army, converts it to a contribution organization, which concludes a contract with the entity to which it leases the object, and my belief is that at that point the secrecy ends. To conceal the fact that these are things that should not have been kept secret. But who's the culprit? Is it an army, or is it the organization that comes in and uses objects that aren't calibrated to the load they're just putting in, including the disposal of the rocket fuel? Ladies and gentlemen, declaring a state of emergency, the highest level, the highest level, to the highest level, we have a state of danger and other matters. hejtman has consulted all matters with integrated rescue units. At the announcement, they assessed all the conditions to see if they were fulfilled. And they found there was no need to declare a state of emergency. There's no need to declare a state of emergency. That the effectiveness of the work of integrated rescue units is such that they can cope with this situation exactly in the conditions in which it is. Let's not involve evacuations and other subsequent phenomena that are directly related to the intervention. I would ask very much that we do not extend the discussions into topics that we are not going to solve today anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u21	I thank Mr Klučka. [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] With another point of fact, Mr Ondráček, Mrs Černochová, followed by Mr Mackovík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I did not want to interfere in this debate at all, because it is very difficult and I would, of course, like to thank all the members of the Police of the Czech Republic and the army who are doing the brave work there. But it didn't help me when I heard the team's political training or the brainwashing that was here in a permanent contribution from Mrs. Černochová. Don't be mad at me, but that's it, that's just too much. I don't want to defend this government, it has its problems, but let's just say, who's to blame? Vondra's name fell, Bartak may have Barták, we can talk... The Home Secretary spoke of reducing people by a third. Langer, Kubice, these are all people who have or have jurisdiction in a political party who, although having sixteen Members and wanting to convene this meeting, maybe she is aware of it and has only three or four representatives. Let's get back to what we can do to fix this situation. Perhaps it would be ideal to go back fifteen, twenty years. To dust the papers that were used to operate such objects, and to revisit it. The economy will never be more important than protecting the life and health of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u23	I thank Mr Ondráček. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I feel like I may have been talking a little loud. Because otherwise, I can't explain the fact that my colleague Ondráček, as well as Mr Kořenek, is saying and pushing me something that I haven't said at all or what anyone else hasn't said. The names didn't come up, and it wasn't Alexandr Vondra, but it was Minister Šedivý and Secretary Parkanová. And neither Minister Šedivý nor Minister Parkanová were my colleagues from that side, as you said, which has 16 Members here, i.e. from the ODS. So much for my colleague Ondráček, through the Vice-President. And to Mr. Kořenek. It doesn't even make sense to comment on anything other than sitting on his ears and that I was talking about crisis management and about amending some laws. The law I quoted here is this. Indeed, neither the ODS nor any of our opponents have been responsible for the fact that Mr. Governor Mišák has been the commander since 2008 and that he has not learned and studied crisis planning and had no crisis plan for this location. He was supposed to have an evacuation plan, just like the other captains have flood plans. Perhaps you will remember, colleagues, and the Prime Minister should commend him, because Captain Hašek, I suspect two or three years, when a slope fell in your south Moravia, Mr. Prime Minister, he ran for four days in camouflage in front of television cameras. He was declaring an emergency, asking for a state of emergency. So when the authorities want to do it, they do it, and even some can do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Mr Mackovík, Mr Lank, then Mr Kořenek, then Mrs Lorencová, followed by Mr Votava, who is reporting from the post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u26	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, colleagues. The situation is quite serious and I would like to use my factual comment on two things. First, there should be no misinformation or false information leaving this House. And maybe the Secretary of Defense should comment on the fact that one of my previous speakers here said that there may have been SS-20 missiles. I want to warn you that the SS-20 rockets, i.e. the RSD-10 Pioneer, are rockets with a range of over 5,000 kilometers, which were never in the armament of our army. I doubt that these missiles have been left behind, and I doubt that they have been stored there. So I don't want to hear in a tabloid tomorrow that this is how it is, because if it doesn't come back, somebody's gonna print it. I would also like to say that it is the right hand that always stands here with the fact that the role of the state must shrink, shrink, when the state completely disappears, because standing here is primarily to happen and now apologize to me for the expression, what is called, for example, by the milk cow, when I say it so brutally. [[15.40 hours]] Now we hear from the right part of the political spectrum that the state has failed, has failed the region because it has not declared some kind of crisis. I think that the Crisis Management Act clearly states when a crisis situation is to be declared, that some territory or the number of persons affected should be affected. I don't think this has happened and that both the security council of the region and the management of individual resorts have actually acted in accordance with the law. I believe that if there were a need to declare a crisis situation in the region, it would be declared. Let's get back to the essence of this thing and figure it out so this never happens again. Let's be glad it didn't cost more people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u27	I thank Mr Mackovík. Now, with Mr Lank's point of fact, Mr Kořenek after him, Mrs Lorencová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I have to react now because I feel like it's starting to get us into this traditional fight, who's more responsible. I admit I don't really care at this point. At least not that much. At this point, I'm interested in what to do so that it doesn't happen again, and what we can do specifically to prevent it. That's what I think is something that we should be dealing with first and foremost right now. While I'm here, there's one more thing I'm interested in. A question I'd quite like to hear the answer to. If anyone can guarantee, or if anyone knows how many ammo was in those warehouses, and what's important is whether all the ammunition actually exploded, or if a few dozen or hundreds of pounds went missing before the second explosion occurred. And so if there are theoretically certain quantities of unregistered explosives moving around somewhere, which simply no one misses, and in the current security situation in the world, they would be worth gold on the black market. That I think is also an interesting question that I would really like to hear the answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr Lank. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kořenek. After him, Mrs Lorencová. After that, with priority rights, the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. I'll make two points then. I think the Governor of the Zlín Region knows exactly what to do and that he did. To ad 1. Ad 2. I would like to invite or propose the invitation of two representatives from 2011, one is then Minister of Defence Vondra, the other Prime Minister Nečas, to allow them to speak and to know under what conditions the contracts were concluded, why they were thus concluded, why this was so. I think we'll be clear if they tell us the truth. And in order not to repeat it in another place in the Republic, I believe that it will not happen again, that such contracts thank God, because these gentlemen are gone, hopefully they will never be closed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u31	Ambassador, please, I hope I'm not to see this as your procedural motion to interrupt the meeting until Mr... no. [[Screams: Yes! - No, not now.]] Thank you. With Mrs Lorencová's point of view. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u32	Colleagues and colleagues, dear guests, I think we must return somewhat to the rather recent past after all, and I would like to formulate a few questions that have come to me from the information continuously coming to the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u33	I'm sorry, Madam. Gentlemen, please be gentlemen and let the lady finish. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to know who was responsible for the situation that happened. This will result from the answers to the following questions: Who was the Minister of Defence in 2009 to 2011? Who signed leases for VTÚ, which are for the state, which is so advantageous for us that the state was supposed to secure it for its private entities? What kind of approval process did such a serious contract go through? How did control mechanisms work under the then Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic? Whether the claims of those workers, I dare say, are based on the truth. For example, the son of the current Slovak President has been in Bochemie since 2012 and is owned by a completely anonymous Dutch company. But that's just to the edge. Minister of Defence was Karel Kühnl and Jiří Šedivý, Union of Freedom and ODS in 2006. In 2009 Vlasta Parkanová, KDU-ČSL, and Martin Barták for ODS. In 2011, it was Alexandr Vondra, then Petr Nečas and Vlastimil Picek. I think that the answers to these questions will clearly give rise to responsibility for the current state of affairs that occurred in Vrbetice and its surroundings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Now, Mr Chalupa, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u36	Good afternoon. Hello, Mr. Mayor. To your surprise, I won't even ask questions, nor will I be looking at what happened or didn't happen at the moment, because at this moment, as the ministers have told us, the matter is being saved, the overall report will be processed. When this report is in the world, we'll deal with it. What's going on here is in many cases conjecture or one lady said etc. I really don't think we should be wasting our time. I, for my part, for my parliamentary club and I hope that, for most of my colleagues, I want to assure the mayor and the citizens of this country that we Members in those committees where these matters are being dealt with - we will be paying utmost attention to this in order to correct these matters so that nothing like this will happen in the future. We're already working on an amendment to the Arms and Gun Act. So I want to assure you that we are really going to do everything we can to ensure that citizens are not exposed to these dangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Mr Benda, Mr Holík, is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u38	Just a point of fact on Mr Kořenka through Mr President. Please let us listen to Mrs. Černochová. She asked the Secretary of Defense to make the contracts public. And I know it seems funny who we're gonna call in here, but I doubt that ministers, whatever minister they were - and by the way, in a decisive period, at least the government in 2009 and 2010 had confidence in both social democracy and ODS, if the colleagues remember correctly - the ministers certainly didn't take the contracts home. So we would like to know, and we would all like to know, and the contracts are undoubtedly based on the Ministry of Defence, who signed them and under what circumstances and what possibilities they give private companies and what possibilities they give the state. Maybe they're really bad, but you need to know them first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u39	I thank Mr Benda. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Holík. Mr. Home Secretary is starting to get nervous. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u40	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, dear guests, I confess that I have been in storage seven times since the explosion. I mostly devoted it to interviews with local citizens, people who worked there at the time. Allow me to interpret some of their questions. It was said that 12 days had passed since the last uncontrolled explosion of that warehouse number 1 before the next explosion. And at that time, the warehouses were checked. Any documentation taken? 'Cause there's a way to figure out why that storage room number 12 exploded again. Next question. It was said, everything is in private hands. If it was in private hands, then who was in charge? Was there anybody like that? We all know the warehouses, when the military released them, were free. Private companies started picking up their goods there. By that time, all the ammo was processed. So the one that was reworking or selling here was a stranger. So it can be traced exactly below the invoice, because it was all from abroad, how much was imported, how much was exported, how much was there. More or less, I'm gonna wait for answers and then I'm gonna keep going because I'm properly logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u41	Now, that was Mr Holík's point of order. I'm sorry, now Minister Chovanec has been listed here with priority rights, after whom President Okamura. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u42	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is very broad, so I will answer some questions gradually in order to reach a conclusion at the end. According to our information, SS-20 missiles were never in these objects. There were only skeletons of rockets, now please don't take my word for it, I suspect S4, which are smaller rockets. There were only skeletons without explosives, which results from the review of the bomb squad and from the records given by the companies. Fifty kilometers if everything blows up. We have discussed this issue several times, the last time at the Bureau of the Security Council of the State and then with the mayors. Bomb squads reject this, this is simply not true from the pyrotechnic assessment. The movement of persons on the premises offered goods to foreigners is subject to investigation. I don't have the information, I can't have it, and I don't know about it. How much was the material in question, we only have from the records of companies. That means, to your question, is there anything missing or exploded? It's hard to say. But the investigation, of course, is heading for that. There was a doorway, something was imported, something was exported. Don't be mad at me, but I believe that the FOOOZ will do so well that all the criminal activity that was there will gradually become enlightened. As regards the crisis law and what Mrs Černochová said through the President. In the opinion of the Fire Rescue Corps - and I consider them experts - the crisis situation could not be declared, the legal conditions were not fulfilled. Official position of the Fire Rescue Corps. I do not know, my fellow Member, how many times you have been on the scene, through Mr President, but I have been there twice. I've talked to these people, talked to the cops, the mayors, and all the files that hit them, and I've been trying to get the truth. According to the firefighters, it wasn't possible to declare a state of emergency. As far as the crisis plan is concerned. In the view of the region, and so far there is no reason not to believe and contradict it, it is indeed a statute - and I assume that the representatives of the Zlin Region will also comment on this - again I call the status of the construction a military object. The Ministry of Defence in the past - and that is not the problem of Mr. Stropnický, with whom I am not arguing, but I am trying to address the matter first and foremost. I don't know where you found us fighting. I don't know about that. In the past, the Ministry of Defence has claimed an exception that these military objects are in a special regime and are therefore not included in the crisis plans. When the production was approved for the company Bochemie, which is the mentioned company that reworks rocket fuel, the building permit was approved by the special Building Military Office in Olomouc and this company, although it did not have to, volunteered for the crisis system of the region. This company is partly next to this area, but partly some of the warehouse has its own. As regards the duty of the Ministry of Interior in relation to the crisis plans of other ministries and other regions, or all regions in the Czech Republic, you will be given a written report within seven days if we can agree to this. It's more extensive material, and the procedure will be resolved in writing. As far as any arguments are concerned, my colleague, about our conventions and others. I don't really know how ODS works, but it's a priority for us to solve people's problems. Surely we are not interested in the convention in this matter. As to how the Prime Minister did or did not act. I've been involved in all these discussions. The moment Mr. Governor Mišák called, the matter was discussed at the meeting of the government and the Prime Minister asked the Minister of Defence to take action on the matter, which was also the case. And then, when the Police of the Czech Republic asked for the possibility of involvement of the Army of the Czech Republic, the Prime Minister immediately convened an extraordinary government that decided. There was no sluggishness, we held within the shortest possible time limits that were there. I, colleagues, would like to reiterate one thing. In the past few years, you have decided to cut through prosperity within your right-wing governments. It just doesn't work. In those police units that control, for example, ammunition, there's been a reduction in the state to 54 police officers to control 2,100 licenses. Police have reported several times that the condition is inadequate and that it needs to be strengthened. Now it's about to happen. I'm not going to name past ministers here, I'm going to give specific numbers, and I don't want to spread some kind of hysteria around here. It is important for us to help people not only in Vrbětice, but also in the surrounding villages. As regards the state that is currently there. The moment the Police of the Czech Republic asked the Government for a second extension to the Army of the Czech Republic, this happened. The site is being sealed down tonight to prevent aliens from entering from the outside. And once again, it's a state of investigation, it's being investigated by specialists, and we want to make it clear that it's not a competitive fight, not allowing anyone to enter the premises and do anything there. This too is one of the branches of the investigation that we are very serious about. So it's important for us to work things out and work things out. We were given an assignment from the Prime Minister, then from the government. The Ministry of the Interior has scanned the applicable legislation and the twenty-second, when the Prime Minister has convened the Security Council of the State, the applicable legislation and the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior will be discussed and will be given the tasks of the ministries to prepare legislative changes to primarily strengthen the performance of the control and to discuss whether it is really appropriate and advantageous for the Czech Republic so that private companies can stock so many tons of ammunition in one place without clear rules. Personally, I think it's just not good, it's not good, it's not convenient, it's not necessary. This means, let us strengthen the state to the level that citizens of the Czech Republic need. You've decided, once again, to cross out prosperity, and it clearly shows that it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, Home Secretary. Now with priority rights, Mr President of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I am so glad that after the many attempts of Dawn at the previous meetings to include the Vrbětice-Vlachovice point at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, it finally worked. Too bad, we could have discussed the facts here earlier, and the citizens would have been happier. I'm just reminding you, of course, that the matter is very burning and I've devoted myself to it from the beginning, because it's basically my former senate district, so I know it very well. In my speech, I would like to focus on my questions a little differently than everyone else. Everyone else basically evaluates the intervention that's taking place there, and they ask what's going to happen now. I'm interested - that's also important, of course. But I've been trying to get answers here for a month and a half to the questions of where the system failure occurred, where the mistakes are, why this happened, and who's to blame. We still haven't learned from the government who's to blame and where the systemic errors are. Prime Minister Sobotka here last time said that new legislation is being prepared. But how can they prepare new legislation if they do not have named systemic errors and systemic failures? I don't understand. It doesn't work like that. Or is it gonna be a try again - a mistake? So that's the first question. How new legislation can be prepared if we do not yet know who is responsible, who has failed and where the current system has failed. And I will specify the questions so that it can be seen that the information really is of a different type and contradicts itself. After the explosions, Minister Stropnickýý told us that the state institutions did not know at all what the amount of ammunition on the site was stored, or it was said here and these data from private companies were just being asked. On the other hand - and at the same time, the Minister said that they would only be pushing private companies - I quote: to add a list of what they have in storage. So the Secretary of Defense says the state doesn't have this information, he doesn't know how much ammo is stored on the site, which in itself is remarkable, and the Minister said that they will be pushing private companies to deliver the information. [[16.00 hours]] At the same time, however, Minister Chovanec states at the same time that the companies immediately supplied a list of what they have in storage, but according to his data it was only an indication on paper, according to his own words, and what is true is that the reality will still be discovered. That means it's a mess. One of the ministers says that there is no information and that it is necessary to ask what ammunition is actually in storage, and the other information from Minister Chovanec is that the companies immediately supplied a list of what they have, but it is necessary to find out the reality. Either way, it means the state doesn't know. So it either does or it doesn't, so there's already a contradiction, so the confusion is anyway, but I don't blame it on the government because it's relatively brief. It's a mess from before. But the question is, why wasn't it known about the confusion, and I would say, I would like to say brothel, literally, by the mouth of the citizens who contacted me from Vrbětic-Vlachovic, they are indignant, but anyway, the confusion is. But now I don't understand why the reality will only be discovered, i.e. that the information isn't really. The next question, and I'm trying to finish the systemic error, because the Prime Minister and the government can't tell who actually made a mistake, even after almost two months. Mr. Governor Mišák here tells us publicly that there were holes in the fence, a considerable amount of them even passed through, for example. animals, or even humans. That means, in the ammunition store, where there are 15,000 tons of ammo, so there are holes where the animals pass through. On the other hand, I requested written information from the Ministry of Defence and requested a list of checks that were carried out on the fence. And by the way, I've been told that the State's Office of Professional Supervision has carried out a last check on 15. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. He didn't find any obvious defects. Last fence repairs, probably by someone else, because one organ didn't find faults, the other probably did, because I have here noted that the fence repairs were made in May 2014. That means one didn't find faults, the other found them and repaired them, but the third, specifically the captain, says the holes are still there. In a warehouse where not only the animals had free access, and in our country in Zlinsko it is usually deer or something bigger, so it will certainly be a person, but it is a mess again anyway, no one knows whether there are holes or not, but the facts remain. That someone could have climbed through the fence without a problem, even a man. So 15,000 tons of ammunition is guarded in the Czech Republic. And someone's wrong. Either the Governor is making it up, or there are fake controls. And they're lying. They said there's a fixed fence, there's no problem, and he wasn't. Someone's wrong. The hetman or the control authorities. So who? Will we finally know who's lying or who's cheating? Why isn't it controlled in some way? Another thing I have here. Mr. Governor Mišák said that it is necessary to lay down the rules of transport and logistics of transport first. Why am I talking about this? Because the Prime Minister here the last time we asked to place this point, it's a few weeks back, so he told us, or even last week, he told us that the private companies where it happened would be the ones who would be responsible for transporting the ammunition. So, logically, I was wondering because I'm unsure, so when these private companies were already guarding ammo in this way, or somebody was watching it hit like that, so I thought to myself, so they're going to take it somewhere around the Czech Republic again, e.g. May at the Policka? On public roads? Among the citizens' homes? So I asked what are the rules in the Czech Republic for transporting ammunition. And I was told in writing that the Army of the Czech Republic has certain rules. I'm not reading them. Police of the Czech Republic also have their own internal regulations. It's okay. And as for the removal of ammunition by private means, I quote here one sentence, there is no more, and I understand why. This is subject to other rules, in particular the obligation to report them to the competent authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic. The terms. Private companies report their terms to the police as they transport ammunition. Well, that's a scandal! It seems to me that I have a written reply from the Department of Defense that private companies may determine their terms. Or doesn't anybody know? Or what it is? I asked what are the conditions for transporting ammunition by private firms in the Czech Republic as such. To do that, it's my duty to report it to the police. What are the rules anyway? What are the rules for transporting ammunition by private firms? I also asked how often ammunition warehouses were checked, because 15,000 tons of ammunition is a huge amount. I found that the warehouses were controlled basically e.g. the Mining Authority, because the control of the storage of industrial explosives is in charge of the Mining Authority. And he only controls them once every two years. One check was 2011, the other 2013. And I'm asking, and I'm trying to finish again, because unfortunately, I didn't get the answer here in almost two months, I'm just saying, where's the system failure? Checks are made when 15 thousand tons of ammunition are stored in the Czech Republic every two years, I can see that. But is it sufficient, especially when we have 30 more warehouses in the Czech Republic approximately? Shouldn't these checks be more frequent? I'm asking these clues so that we can get around to it in some way. And even here I have written when I asked if the Police of the Czech Republic is in any way controlling, so that the police of the Czech Republic have not been able to trace the record of the ammunition storage, and from this we conclude that it has not been carried out. Well, that's a really, I think the next question, and it needs to be - I'm not saying it didn't happen. It's gone. There may not be a mutual exchange of information here, but it is in itself a systemic error when the competent authorities do not know each other, or the information system about such serious matters as the storage of ammunition is not so linked that there is no mutual information about who is doing the control, so it is the frequency of checks, mutual exchange of information. The citizens of Vlachovic-Vrbětic ask us, at least us from Dawn, because we are moving there, there were also two of our MPs, Karel Fiedler, Jarda Holík, and they tried to get information and work there in some way, so they ask when they will really learn the dangers they were in or are still in danger of. So they will probably not know, as I understand it, because specific data on the quantity and types of material stored cannot be disclosed, as this would be a security risk for the State. I see. But I'm just asking the government to report as much information as possible, because these people are really, really, really psychically exhausted, and it's very, it's a serious situation. And please make sure that information is as much as possible. I'm trying to say, once again, where the system failures might be, so that it doesn't happen next time, so that we can adjust the legislation accordingly. Fire Department. You'd think there'd be a fire unit where there's 15,000 tons of ammo. She wasn't there. She was not set up there, and I therefore logically asked why a fire department was not set up there according to existing regulations in the Czech Republic, and again, if it is also not a systemic error, one of many, in legislation that we should regulate and which can be discussed. If there's a commission to do this, we'll be happy to attend it if we're actually invited. On the contrary, I have heard internally that the Prime Minister did not want Members of other parties to attend the last weekend. That's a little bit of a shock. We would like to participate because we too have a responsibility to the voters. But, Prime Minister, you said you didn't want to be part of any other party. You told one of our MPs right here in front of the hall entrance. So I'm sorry, but I didn't get that at all. Because we are elected, at least for the Zlín Region, or we have a responsibility to the citizens. Otherwise, about the fire department, I asked why she wasn't there. And imagine that it was judged whether it should be there or not. And it came to the conclusion in the assessment, the assessment of the fire risk, that the danger is said to be very low. So some organ came to the conclusion that when they judged it was very low. And I'm asking what kind of regulations are in the Czech Republic that a 15,000-ton ammunition warehouse is marked as a very low fire hazard. [[16.10 hours]] And now we see what the result is that the danger is not very low, on the contrary, it is extremely high. Does that mean, I'm saying again, isn't there another problem that, of course, we have to fix together? And the whole thing is drawn up by the fact that when the initial fire unit entered the compound after the explosion, the area, actually the objects have so-called operational cards of individual objects, where there are technical parameters, so that they know where to hit, where to go, so that, I don't know, some apparently wiring and the like. They didn't have the operational cards in their hands. Those were handed over to them afterwards. That means it's like Kocourkov. There's a warehouse of 15,000 tons of ammo, there's a fire unit coming in from the outside, probably from Slavicino, where there's professional firemen, I know that place, of course I've been to the firehouse repeatedly, and they go in there, it's assessed as a low risk, they drive from the outside, and now they don't know where to go and where to intervene because they don't get those operating cards. Or operating cards, I'm sorry. So this is how the system works in the Czech Republic? That's crazy, my dear friends. Furthermore, I would like to mention another matter that Minister chovanec has mentioned in the past - and we take it into consideration again - it is nothing that I am attacking anyone, no way. This is more of a different question. Minister, you said it was a mistake that the security area was privatized as well. Apparently, that's what it looks like. It's not your fault, of course, I say that in advance. But I just want to ask you in a matter of fact, what are you planning as a government in this regard, whether it will be assessed that there will be some deprivation or that it would be taken care of again or... I'm just curious. And it's also about the system solution, so what's next now, so that these things don't happen again, of course. Otherwise, I have another written information here, and I am about to conclude that the Police of the Czech Republic should have information about the location of the storage, as well as other information on the safety of the material stored in the ammunition warehouses here. But I don't understand it at all, because on the one hand, one state authority claims, I have here an extract of all the information I have received in writing from the state authorities. [[with emphasis]] One says the police should have had it. The second, Minister Stropnický, claims that the state institutions did not know and that they will only push private companies. It's just, I'm saying, they're gonna push private companies to deliver the list. [[with emphasis]] Well, now I don't know. On the contrary, the Minister said at that time that the companies supplied the list immediately. [[The speaker turns to Minister Chovanec]] Either way, there was no list. And anyway, you don't know, but apparently the police should have. This is total chaos, my dear friends! Total chaos about the storage of ammunition in the Czech Republic. That's total, I'm sorry, but really messed up! Finally, the problem is that citizens live in dozens of places in the Czech Republic. And it's impossible to tolerate that. That's why I'm asking the government again - as you've noticed, I'm not attacking the government at all, I'm not attacking it at all, I'm just naming problems, and I want to set up a system solution quickly so that it never happens again. Otherwise, the fact that there are soldiers, that it is bounded, that various measures are taking place. That's okay, of course. In conclusion, I would like to say that this has fallen, and I did not intend to talk about it because it is not worth it in this context, but the fact that there is no Captain Mišák, it is an absolute contempt and failure, it is absolutely incredible, because I know Mr. Captain Mišák, he always has a full mouth of how to do things and how he does everything right, he was my opponent in the Senate elections, and here he could show how much he cares about citizens. The entire Chamber of Deputies is having an extraordinary meeting on this extraordinary matter, and he's just not here! It's totally awful! It's just a symbolic dot behind what I'm saying here. Total contempt for the state administration. And I don't care if he's the headmaster for the CSSD or anyone else. Citizens don't figure out who's behind what side. They need help, information, and as long as it doesn't happen, so they can live happily ever after. So it doesn't matter who the governor is, that's what I say for myself. But it is indeed a contempt for the highest caliber that is not here! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Now I have a lot of factual points: first Mr Benešík, then Mrs Lorencová, then Mr Koskuba, Mr Klučka, Mr Hájek, Mr Schwarz. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u46	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because we in the Zlín Region and the Zlín Region are used to speaking briefly. I just want to cut down a little bit, because we all want to investigate, clog system holes, which is fine. But people in Vrbětice and the surrounding area, in other villages, live in enormous uncertainty, because some of the information that the media has, in particular, information from the media is very inaccurate and sometimes they feel that they see something completely different than what is being served from the media, for example. That is why they, as regional representatives of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, have sent me several questions that are directly related to the situation at the moment, and not to the system solution, which will undoubtedly happen after it happened there. [[with emphasis]] So I'd like to read some of the questions. Who checked what was stored in the individual warehouses and whether the reality, at least the projected ones, corresponds to the documented lists? When and by whom was the last check carried out? Were there any warehouses that exploded or which had already been checked exceeded? Are the objects in this area designed to store artillery grenades and air bombs? And there are a number of questions that concern Bochemia. If it's even possible in a given situation for such an undertaking to operate in a ammunition storage facility. They're also very confused about what was before, whether the ammunition storage started working there, or if Bochemie started working there. I mean, work, not when the contract was signed. If rocket fuel was first modified or if bombs were stored there first. These are just some specific questions, which if explained, so people will definitely be calmer, apparently they will know more about what they are on. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Now, with Mrs Lorencová's point of fact, Mr Koskuba, Mr Klučka and others. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u48	I'll try to be brief again. Dear colleagues, my point is just to add to what I was talking about a moment ago, or to extend the question. Maybe it's a disability to my former profession, when I've tried every single thing I've come up with at least twice, preferably five times to verify whether it's based on the truth. I was informed that the company Bochemie, a. s. is, in fact, an anonymous company based in Holland, Amsterdam, and this company is supposedly our state-funded since 2008, because it has received at least 110 million crowns according to information I would like to hear whether they are true. If that's true, then I'd like to know why this company is supposed to receive subsidies, when and exactly what time the subsidies entered that company. And the last question is whether it is part of the acceptance documentation, whether it is also part of the lease agreements that the objects at the time that the companies are, not only the one I mentioned, but the companies were renting, whether the objects were really empty. If so, it must be part of the documentation, it must be part of the lease agreements. And I'd like to know if it's really in the lease agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Koskuba, Mr Klučka, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u50	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I am here repeatedly and it is clear that my appeal at the beginning of this extraordinary meeting did not catch on. I'm not taking any of you ladies and gentlemen the right to comment on this. But don't be offended. Time's really progressing. This is not about the laziness of Members, although we have discussed here this week how others have to meditate at Advent time. I'm sure you have every right to know that we're doing this here. Did any of you question that what happened wasn't okay? I'll answer it myself - he didn't question it. We all agree. We hear it's saving up, it's on the committees. The government is gradually gathering information that it's passing on to us. Please let me ask you, what are we up to today? I also feel sorry for the people who live around this building, but I am here to ask the question: And, Minister, where are the other and the other objects, etc.? We're intelligent people, aren't we? We know about the problem. None of us denied it. Now somebody's gotta make it. And then I'll take one single remark that I've already made here. It's like medicine. And then, damn it, that's what we're Parliament for, we'll tell each other what caused it. I said my opinion here. The reason for this is that if it belonged to the military, we don't have to worry about it at all, ladies and gentlemen! And here's what I'm saying in the foyer. If you privatize another squadron of Gripens, you will surely have more problems with it than those belonging to the air force of the Czech Republic! But it's okay, we sign the contracts, they'll serve. We can have private courts. We can have private prosecutors. We can have private prisons. If we make a deal, everything will work out. But we're talking about control here. I'm not denouncing anyone. Well, there wouldn't be any problems if someone was running something that I don't think he should be doing. [[The President draws attention to the time]] I'm sorry, let's get to the point and come to a conclusion. I admit, I want to go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, honourable Member. With another point of fact, Mr Klučka, followed by Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll follow up on my previous speaker. I think it really is time for us to come to some conclusion from this meeting. The ammunition depots that are in the army are perfectly safe. They work in modes, it works the way it's supposed to work, there's control, there's protection, there's patrol, there's everything there. This isn't an army munitions warehouse! This was another ammunition warehouse. To Mr Okamur through the President. I have to fix it in one. He said the fire department got the emergency planning documentation, whether internal or external, after. We didn't. She wasn't one for us to understand each other. There really wasn't one. And we all know from the media that the moment the fire started there, because the explosion is the result of the fire, at this point there was only one person in the working relationship, and that was the doorman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr. Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u54	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, you see, I did not wish to speak, but I have to respond to the words or speeches of Mr Okamura. Unlike him, I've been a mining rescuer for 31 years, I've been the head of an accident disposal, and I've experienced dozens of fatal accidents. I can remember under any accident - and I take it that Vrbětice are accidents - to equip myself lively with all the solutions that things are going on. I totally hated it, I totally hated the layman's reaction! And what Mr Okamura was saying here was inn talk, which is incredibly misleading! That means, I think, even though there's been an accident here and there's definitely been a mistake, so it's about letting all the files analyze the situation now enough to ensure the whole situation. And, of course, there's a government and ministers here to take a clear solution so that it doesn't happen again in the future, and they've introduced our House to this, and we've decided to do so - no. I am so glad, so glad that on November 14th, when my three colleagues died on my home shaft of the Dolu Karvina, when three miners died, Members of the Dawn did not go to investigate and help find a way out of this accident! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u55	I thank Mr Hájek. Mr Schwarz, Mr Fiedler, is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u56	Good afternoon, colleagues. I'd kind of follow up on Mr. Hájek, too. I would ask or ask the Minister. [[to the Minister of Interior]] I don't want to ask him any questions. If he used all his options and techniques to make this place a crime scene, so that the police would do everything for it - and I believe he would, because the way he documented those departments, I know those departments, so that the place wasn't a crime scene, so that the place would be a classic place where the secretary of bomb squad could come here, they'd take a quick look at it all, and these gentlemen here can tell their people it's cool and they wouldn't have to move anymore. [[to the Minister of Defence]] I'd just like to ask the Minister. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u57	I thank Mr Schwarz. Mr Fiedler, Mr Vondrašek, followed by Mr Vondrášek, made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u58	I'll try to be very brief. The debate is really stretching. Since I assume that the government will present some follow-up material, I would just add the question to my colleague Jana Lorencová. Mrs Lorencová asked if the warehouses were really empty at the time of the handover. The ones that relate to the lease. I'd like to extend the question a little bit. If the other warehouses that weren't involved in these companies' leases were empty, or there was some ammunition in them. I wouldn't agree with what my colleague Koskuba said here. I keep saying I see it in two planes. What the government and the files are dealing with now, let's leave them alone so they can go on. But I really believe that the causes that led to this state that goes back to a time that is much longer before, not this year, so there I think we could find an answer to those questions right now. But I am inclined to take the view - I see that there are already others involved in the debate, even somewhere my name is at the end of it, there is no visible - to come to a conclusion and to give this meeting a concrete outcome.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u59	I thank Mr Fiedler. Now, Mr Vondrášek, so far with one final point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear government, dear colleagues, we have two mayors here, my colleagues. They're watching how smart we are. I thought that in the current situation where nothing was examined, we knew nothing, so the only main outcome would be how we would help them, how we would help the communities, how we would help people for suffering there, whoever did it. And I think it was supposed to be the only task of this session for the government. And then we can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u61	I thank Mr Vondrášek. Now with priority rights, Minister Stropnický. After him, with permission, Mr. Deputy Governor of the Zlín Region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I, my fellow Members, certainly did not want to poison anyone by going to the microphone, but those questions were so many that some might rightly think I was avoiding answers. I will try, allow me, to sort them according to a certain order of meaning or importance. Contracts. The police have contracts because that's what they need most right now to assess the investigation. As far as duty is concerned. The duties have, say, been divided. As far as the Military Technical Institute is concerned, he was supposed to secure things like wiring, lightning ducts and maintenance of the protection, i.e. fence. [[16.30 hours]] There is one thing that needs to be emphasized here, which is also constantly confused in the media, and then it creates a chain of misunderstandings. A military ammunition warehouse has a completely different regime than a civilian ammunition warehouse. The basis of the difference, and I would like to answer partly to the evergreen theme fence, is that the military ammunition warehouse is secured throughout the perimeter. There is the essence of security - fence, sensors, cameras and so on and inside the building are individual buildings without any further fence. For civilians, it is precisely the opposite, the perimeter is protected only by the base fence and individual warehouses are burdened with those who store, are equipped with fences, sensors and so on. The Military Technical Institute has an obligation to control the status of the fence. To the outer fence. We really have a revision. I can't assess whether the revision was regular or irregular. I'd rather intercede for being regular, because there was a razor fence and then a VTÚ received complaints from some citizens that the fence was too impenetrable, that it makes it hard to go for mushrooms. I don't want to downplay it, but there's a lot of guaranteed information, and as always, when trouble breaks out, obviously it shows who's standing next to it that it's all gone down. However, the interesting thing about the contracts is that in the case of EXCALIBUR she agreed with VTÚ because there was quite a lot invested by the company that the land under the buildings are owned by this company. That's a bit of a special circumstance for me, but so be it. As far as insurance is concerned, ammo from all the traceable sources we've been looking for can't be insured with us. VTÚ, i.e. the whole area was and is insured for 50 miles. but basically common damage, of course, not damage of this magnitude. As far as the price is concerned, it is so-called time and place usual. I cannot resist the impression that 400 CZK per metre per year is a very friendly price. So much for contracts. I say again, the police have them. Indemnification. Of course, all legitimate claims will be implemented, which is why there is also the liaison officer in the rank of general and, of course, some sort of administrative background. As far as companies are concerned, it depends on the investigation, because there are many versions. And as a company that's not guilty of anything or material shouldn't be affected, it shouldn't profit from it at all, for example, a company where a police investigation proves that it was guilty. Re-enabled May. The amount I know is that it was heard somewhere, up to 100 miles. Crowns. Now the re-enactment, as we've prepared it, as we implement it, is within 20 miles. Crowns. I'd really like us to have some sieve, some filter for some kind of message, see if the temps went there, see if any strangers moved there. If the warehouse owner had a client, they signed up at the gate and went to show him, let's just say, the merchandise, it doesn't seem so bad to me. Seems a lot worse if there's ever been a chase. In order not to demonize the ammo business again, because if it's something that's legal, let's just say that if we don't control it here, then everyone around us is going to do it to a much greater extent. I don't think we'd be very good at it. Ammo. Despite all the discomfort of the citizens and all the trouble that has happened, the ammunition itself has worked very well, as it is constructed, as it is built, as it is built, as vails and forestation are made. In both cases, it just swallowed up a real gros explosion. If it had been built by a fuss, the trouble would have been much bigger. I'm not saying that because I would minimize the situation, but maybe some of us shouldn't be so emotional. I have to say one thing, and I don't want to get caught up in any controversy, but I actually got my first contact 26. 10. I can't help it - 26. 10th I got a call from the governor, and he asked for an army on the phone. Then somehow we decided it had to be a little different. As far as the future is concerned, she was mentioned here in May. I am convinced and I believe that this will also happen at the level of the government. I think more people are inclined to do it. I don't want to speak for the Prime Minister, but I think he sees it too. May I suggest that it should be some sort of allergenic, emergency, backup warehouse for all emergencies, whether it's ammunition, which I believe will not be repeated immediately, or it's goods seized by customs officials, or any material that's being investigated. I think the money that's going to be spent on it is worth it and that it should be part of an integrated rescue system. Please, in order to use the number of 15,000 tons very carefully, it is not entirely obvious, even it is significantly more likely that it is about half. This number has been heard many times today. Please, as I said at the beginning, sometime two or three hours ago, let's let the police investigate. As far as transport is concerned, there are clear rules for transporting ammunition, and I think it must have been followed, because companies are also interested in doing business, so I do not think they have respected the fact that they have to report it ten days in advance to the Regional Police Directorate, where the route is set, and where the time in which it takes place is defined. Information. There's often talk about how they are, how they're not. The worst information is quarter-truths and half-truths and unverified information. They float through media space like balloons, attract attention to themselves and few, unfortunately, few verify the information and can really cause panic, or even the often mentioned alarm report, such as bomb squads. The attorney for the unnamed company involved, I read that he said that if a lot of the bomb squad came in right away from the county, it would be solved. Well, it wasn't. It really wasn't. I don't know if the doctor is an expert on bomb squad, but I'm not impersonating him. But from all the available sources and from the people who do this in Afghanistan, I know it wouldn't just work, that we would basically send these people if they didn't die, to very serious injuries. I'll take one more example. An unnamed serious journal released today or yesterday's report, and there was a picture of a house where people normally put their wheels in a cottage or pitchfork, and under it was a suggestive article about the explosion. Of course it immediately evokes this: oh, so this is what the warehouse looks like. But that wasn't a warehouse, please. It was just a building, the tapes were still coming through. So everyone could have said, "That's not true, there's no tables in the windows, there's a fallen wooden door." Unfortunately, that's how information works. So please, let's do ten. Let's verify them because we should calm these people down, but not calm them down with some sugarcandy, but verified real information. I don't want to keep you any longer. But I consider this almost crucial. One last example. We will immediately learn from the ČT24 that there have been other explosions in the space, it is published immediately to fill in and highlight the broadcast time, but no one will take at least a few minutes to find out if it is controlled or uncontrolled explosions. And that is absolutely essential. [[16.40 hours]] As well as suggestive proposals by some Sunday questioners who call for my resignation. Mr Moravec, that's humor. Because it's exactly the same as if I was suggesting to Minister Chovanc that his mail blew up and that he should draw some personal consequences from it. That's ridiculous stuff, please. And I understand that some journalists require blood, but they shouldn't overdo it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u63	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kováčik. After that, with a factual remark, Mr Šarapatka and I hope to give the floor to the guest from the Zlín Region. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask everyone who's ahead of the so-called. factual remarks to read the Rules of Procedure before they come out! The moment in the so-called a factual point I will begin to apply a substantive position, it is the President's duty to withdraw the floor from me, and not to let go of quasi-disbat, which has not actually started as a debate, except for the two preferential rights of the Presidents or representing the Presidents of the clubs or parties. Otherwise, we didn't start a debate! Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová, chair of the petition committee, has not yet received the floor. No one has ever had a chance to propose anything here under the Rules of Procedure! Not a valid opinion to be given at all. Then I do not understand what the ministers are reacting to, what the Deputy Governor will react to, when neither of the properly enrolled Members has had a chance to say anything here under the Rules of Procedure. I may have a motion for a resolution prepared. I haven't had a chance yet. I'm being polite, I'm not applying to facts and I'm not violating the Rules of Procedure, even though I only have it for two minutes. You know, we got completely out of it. And I am in the mood, Mr President, almost, but because I see that there is no one to represent you, to propose your appeal to the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u65	You're gonna make me feel so much better, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u66	I know. So, colleagues and colleagues, please, if we're going to lead this meeting back to some basic boundaries and shores, let's try to get back to the rules. But the mess that's in there is also because she didn't follow any rules. So let's try to get back to the rules that run here, run, and maybe we'll run the meeting normally. Let those who are duly logged in get the floor, and then let the ministers and the deputy chieftain respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u67	Thank you for this point of fact. With a factual remark, Mr Šarapatka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of talk all afternoon about how no one's actually responsible. It's not the government's fault. How long has this government been here? A week? Two? I can't believe this! We're here to learn that there's shit going on and shooting deer!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u69	Mr. Ambassador, I'm joining in on what Mr. Kováčik said. Let's really, is this a factual point, or is your contribution to the debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u70	The fact is that criminal responsibility or material responsibility may be dealt with. But I think that political responsibility is quite clear and should be drawn from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. If Mrs Bebarová-Rujbrová agrees, I will now allow myself to give the floor to the guest, the Deputy Governor of the Zlín Region. Please, Deputy Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u72	Mr President, honourable Members of the government, honourable Members, I would, in addition to wanting to bring a little closer to the chronology of what the Zlín Region, the Governor, the Security Council and the institutions of the integrated rescue system have been doing, even leaning on some of the facts. Because even here in the discussion, citations have fallen from the point of view of crisis law and other things, and even confused situations of emergency with situations of danger, paragraphs of the Integrated Rescue System Act and sections of the Crisis Management Act. Everything has its essentials. And since we're in the state of law, there's no other way to rely on these facts. On 16. 10. fire and explosion of building number 16. In the context of crisis management, coordination was carried out and the handover of the commander of the intervention of the Fire Rescue Corps to the commander of the intervention of the police according to that reason and that result. The notification and warning of the surrounding municipalities was carried out as a standard, the commander of the intervention decided that the situation would be resolved in the regime of Act No. 239/2000 Coll., on Integrated Rescue System. He was informed by the director of the Regional Military Headquarters requesting that the situation be reported to the Ministry of Defence because it is an object owned by the State under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. Since I was 17. 10 to 22. 10. pyrotechnic works were carried out under the command of the Police of the Czech Republic and tests in terms of hygiene, whether dangerous substances were leaked. 22 days. 10. as part of the inspection of the buildings was ordered preventive evacuation due to the inspection of the warehouse in the marginal parts of the building. 23 days. 10. preventive evacuation of the municipalities Lipová, Vlachovice for the management of the Zlín Region, mayors of municipalities with extended scope and mayors of municipalities was carried out. 24 days. 10. preventive evacuation of the municipalities of Vlachovice, Bohuslavice, again for the management of the said authorities. 24 days. 10. a written request was sent to the Minister of Defence to address this emergency by the Ministry of Defence and was informed by the Prime Minister. On 27. 10. after inspection of the warehouse at the request of the police to convene the Security Council of the Region, there was a meeting of the Security Council extended to the mayors of the municipalities with extended scope. Directly from the negotiations on the basis of the police security report, the Prime Minister was informed of the situation by phone as well. On 30 June 2014, the Commission adopted a communication to the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the On 3. 11. then the government discussed the situation with the participation of the Governor of the Zlín Region. 6 days. 11. the coordination and winding-up work of the Governor of the Zlín Region has been taken over in accordance with Act 239 on the Integrated Rescue System and a system of regular coordination meetings has been established, established by a permanent coordination group. On the day of 8. 11th meeting of the Prime Minister, the Police President and the Director of the General Directorate of the Fire Rescue Corps on site in Vlachovice. On the day of 8. 11 to 3. 12. pyrotechnic cleaning of the premises was carried out, preparation for removal of ammunition, coordination of work at the level of staff of the General Directorate of the Fire Rescue Corps and the Zlín Region with the date of commencement of removal of ammunition 3. 12. On 3. 12. a building number 12 explosion occurred during the ready-to-emergence of the ammo. On 3. 12. then met the extremely Security Council of the Zlín Region, again extended to mayors of municipalities with extended scope. From 4 to 7. 12. there was a preventive evacuation of the municipalities Vlachovice, Lipová, Haluzice for the management of the Zlín Region, the mayors of municipalities and mayors of municipalities with extended scope. 5 days. 12. then there was an extraordinary meeting of the Security Council with regard to the detection of artillery ammunition on another object and the risks of explosion of ammunition in this object. This took place with the participation of the Police President, the Director of pyrotechnic services and the Minister of Interior. The date of 9 May 2011 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the Now, in addition to the chronological state of the matter, as was done within the integrated rescue system components, and I would also like to state that in accordance with Act No. 240, this is the crisis law, every time a state of danger is declared emergency measures are mentioned in the law, but it is not possible to order a work obligation, because the activities must be carried out by professional bomb squads, police officers and other experts. It is not possible to order the provision of material resources. Armored transporters, tanks, special technology are used. It is not possible to order the immediate execution of constructions or landscaping. Executing youth care. The priority supply or alternative means of deciding on welfare benefits cannot be ordered. I don't want to quote the whole part that contains and serves the state of danger. The state of danger may be declared by the Governor if it is not possible to avoid the threat to the activities of the integrated rescue system components. [[16.50 hours]] The explosion of ammunition in the ammunition warehouse, and here it fell several times, is such a special event that it is in no way possible to use resources and forces other than highly professional components of the IZS in its solution. From the outset, it was not possible to allow laymen or those who could be at risk of health and life in terms of professionality or incompetence. As well as when double-tracking command, as well as depending on the extent of the danger, when either an ambulance commander, a firefighter commander, or a police chief, is in charge of the task force, it was clear that he must be here as the intervention commander to decide the police and, using the bomb squad, to map other options. Therefore, the solution to an emergency in the regime of Act No. 239/2000 Sb. was the only possible solution that could have been done at the time. In conclusion, then, let me say only factually in the light of other generally binding legislation: there has been an emergency with a state organisation set up by the Ministry of Defence in the property of the State. The Military Technical Institute was established by Government Resolution No. 456 19 June 2012 and is intended to ensure strategic requirements of the state in the field of defence and security of the Czech Republic. The Military Technical Institute concluded lease contracts for the storage of ammunition in the incriminate location instead of the implementation of this purpose for which it was established. The Ministry of Defence, the Office of State's Professional Supervision Olomouc, issued a co-authorising consent to the use of the construction as a relevant building office. In the approval of the appeal to Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on securing the defence of the Czech Republic, it is stated that it is an important object for the defence of the state. Unfortunately, interference with these powers of the State is unacceptable. Perhaps in conclusion I quote two laws, namely No. 229/2013 Coll., on the management of security materials, and Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on firearms and ammunition. So I wanted to say that some improvisation, and I have humility before the Chamber of Deputies as a legislature, but that is why the interpretation of the law should be the one that allows us to find the right solutions, because, as the mayor here at the outset thanked the components of the integrated rescue system, we too bow to their professionalism. Over two lives wasted, I mean, we're glad there's no danger to the health and life of other people and that it's at least what it is. But the citizens of adjacent communities are waiting for a solution. They feel threatened and in danger, and I expect all the responsible authorities to really look for the solution that will allow them to rid them of this fear. That's why we came here today. Not to hear some of the half-truths and combinations in terms of interpretation of different conflicting terminology as amended by the law. Thank you for your attention and for the opportunity to perform here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, Deputy Governor. Mrs Bebarová Rujbrová is now duly registered. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u74	Mr Koskuba, supported by Mr Klučka, called for us to end the debate with the fact that he does not want to take anybody's right to express himself, but that everything has already been said here. Colleagues and colleagues, I am the first party to the debate. I filed my application three hours ago. My colleague Kováčik is right. Read the Rules of Procedure and I beg the House's leadership to organise training for individual clubs on this subject. Paragraph 60 of the Rules of Procedure allows us to make procedural proposals and to respond to the debate, not to present factual opinions. I do not know what both ministers responded to, because the debate really begins with my speech. But I'll calm you down. I can fit in those two minutes. I could've handled it with a technical note if I'd handled it the same way you did. I just want to tell you that the citizens of the municipalities concerned have turned to our House of Petitions, in which not only us, but also the Ministry of Defence, request the removal of all ammunition and dangerous materials in the area of former military warehouses in the Cadastral of the villages of Vlachovice and Vrbětice. It is a petition submitted before the second explosion, it has 1 259 signatures and the petition committee will discuss it on 13 January at 15 o'clock. I assume that with the participation of both ministers and mayors of the municipalities concerned, as well as any interested people from your ranks, I cordially invite you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u75	Thank you, Mrs Bebarová. With a factual remark, Mr Schwarz. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u76	Good evening, everyone. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I listened carefully to the Deputy Governor and thank him for what he said, because he agrees with why I think we did the meeting here. I'm glad that he was here and appealed the same way to the Minister to take advantage of all the possibilities for the Minister to release the seat as soon as possible and your people of your region to live in peace. I don't think there's anything we can do about it today. I know I'm going to piss off my colleagues, but I'm still giving a procedural proposal: let's, let's interrupt the meeting for that reason - until sometime in January or until the Minister really knows from his files the clear specific culprits or things, and I would do so. Procedural proposition for interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u77	I will vote on the procedural proposal without debate. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. [[There's a messenger calling for a word. A blacksmith.]] President Kováčik has an amendment to the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u78	Thank you. The amendment to the procedural proposal that has just been tabled is that we stop the discussion of this point until the date referred to by Mr Schwarz, but when at least five duly registered Members and Members of Parliament, that is, their speeches, are heard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-12-ps2013-024-01-001-001.u79	We have two suggestions here. First, I will vote on Mr Kováčik's counter-proposal, which is identical - does he want to interrupt? Please, Mr. Schwarz, until when? [[Messenger. Until January.]] Not in a month. A specific date, please. [[The 19th.]] Until January 19th. Abort until January 19th. And Mr Kováčik has a counterclaim that only after at least five duly registered here in the Chamber of Deputies have been heard. There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote first on Mr Kováčik's counter-proposal to interrupt until 19 January after at least five duly applied for. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 4, 96 Members and Members registered, for 25, against 29. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore continue to vote on Mr Schwarz's procedural proposal to interrupt today's negotiations immediately by 19 January next year. I am opening the vote on Mr Schwarz's proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 5, 96 Members and Members registered, for 68, against 5. The motion was accepted. I am interrupting the meeting of the 24th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 19 January 2015 and ending today's meeting day. Have a good evening.
