ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 10/ - second reading We are at second reading and I ask that the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček and the Committee rapporteur, Mr David Kasal, take their seats at the rapporteur's table. [[10.50 hours]] We have interrupted the discussion of this point on Wednesday, February 5, to date. The general debate has been closed. I would remind you that the House can act without debate at the reopening of the debate after the interruption, pending the vote on the final resolution. Is there such interest? It's not. We have a proposal here - and I ask the rapporteur to check the course - that we have a proposal to return the draft law to the committee for a renegotiation on the basis of Mr Václav Klučka's proposal. That's what we should vote for. Was there another suggestion? I don't think he fell, according to the record, so that's all we're gonna decide. As far as the debate is concerned, this is a detailed debate and it has not even begun. So, before the start of a detailed debate under the Rules of Procedure Act, we will vote on a proposal that will be put to the vote after the general debate, and that is the proposal for the committee to be renegotiated. This is what the Rules of Procedure allow. If the proposal is not adopted, we will continue the debate in detail, where a number of other proposals may, of course, fall. [[Meeting at the chair's table.]] We'll just clear up the stew protocol. Okay, so we will now decide in the vote to renegotiate the committee's law. But before I begin the vote, I will engage because I have called on some of my colleagues to discuss other issues in the culinaries. Then I'll check you all out. I'll ask for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I think the number of Members has settled. I am opening the vote on order number 76, in which we are to decide to return the draft law to the committee for renegotiation. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 76. Of the present 146 for 13, against 90. The motion was not accepted. We will continue with a detailed debate. I am initiating this right now, and I have two Members enrolled in a detailed debate. The first in the detailed debate is Mrs Soňa Marková, and a colleague Václav Klučka will be prepared. Please, Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, allow me to sign up to my amendments to this press and, at the same time, to justify why I am proposing these amendments. Shortly to what happened here before this point was interrupted. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposed amendment referred to in the draft law - the draft law is the implementation of the European directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border care, but at the same time allows Member States to make it conditional on the reimbursement of costs of a type of cross-border healthcare insurance undertaking's prior consent. The Ministry of Health, as it prepared its proposal, admitted this restriction only as an option to a very limited extent and ex post. That is why an amendment was prepared, because the Czech Republic would be the only state in Central Europe that fully liberalizes the provision of services covered by public health insurance. It's just about explaining what we've been talking about. I would now like to sign up for an amendment already included in the system, it is House document No. 293. And let us say in a certain way, it amends the new amendment that we have discussed. Another amendment that I am signing up for is House Document No. 295. However, I would like to justify this presentation in a little more detail, because it follows up on what has been discussed here, and that is the question called. regulatory fees. [[There's a high level of noise in the hall, Members of Speech in the benches.]] The amendment that I tabled repeals all so-called regulatory fees and at the same time introduces a limit of CZK 2500 for payment of surcharges -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u3	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you and ask all colleagues to remain calm. If you have another topic to discuss, please transfer this debate to the galleys and in this hall will be discussed only the press no. 10. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u4	Thank you. So this bill introduces at the same time an annual limit of CZK 2500 to cover medical and food supplements for special medical purposes partly covered by health insurance. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has long been fully involved in the interests of patients, and therefore repeatedly - for the first time already in 2008 - presents laws and amendments to the Act on Public Health Insurance for the full abolition of so-called. regulatory fees and, at the same time, we support all proposals that would mitigate their negative effects. Now let me take a little tour of history. The Constitutional Court decided on 20 May 2008 on the constitutionality of the introduction of these charges even though they were introduced in an unprecedented manner by adopting a large-scale amendment tabled only during the second reading of Law No. 261/2007 Coll., on stabilization of public budgets, and it was a typical sticker. Thus, without the possibility of sufficient consultation and assessment in a proper legislative process. In the Senate, this proposal was not discussed at all. In its decision-making, the Constitutional Court used the reasoning of Minister Julínek at the time that the only reason for introducing charges is their regulatory effect against overuse of health care. On this basis, the Court of First Instance avoided the objection that care was not payable in the course of its provision by not considering fees for the payment of care but as some kind of legitimate regulation. As an important condition of the legitimacy of fees, he also stated that he must not be an obstacle to access to care for anyone. Since then, many examples have shown that neither of these conditions of legitimacy has been met. The Constitutional Court itself further urges executives to find out whether there is any case of "bangling" and, in such a case, writes that the legislature should abolish the charges itself. In the end, however, the Constitutional Court did so on its own after the antisocial Nečasův government, on the contrary, increased the fee for hospitalization to CZK 100. In patients who really need healthcare, fees are an unjustified obstacle to accessing this care. This obstacle is then also discriminatory because it appears to be minor for some patients, but there is always a certain number of patients who are permanently or currently unable to pay. [[11.00 hours]] The media has repeatedly said and said the sentence: while regulatory fees do not regulate anything, they will not cancel because health care needs money. The previously declared regulatory effect in the case of overuse of health care was also questioned by the facts mentioned by the Czech Statistical Office in 2010. Regulatory fees reduced the number of visits to outpatient specialists in 2008, namely mostly gynecologists and dentists - the question is whether it was good - and in emergency rooms. But at the same time, there was an increase in much more expensive medical emergency exits. However, as early as 2009, the number of visits increased again by 12 percent compared to 2008. So much for the Czech Statistical Office. It can therefore be reasonably assumed that any decrease in the frequency of visits to a doctor is not due to reduced overuse, but to the fact that socially weakest patients have abandoned their visits due to the level of the fee. Even the claim that anyone who is not in the hospital has to pay for hotel services is somewhat unfair. Patients cannot control whether they will be treated in the hospital and for how long. Some people don't, even though they don't smoke, drink, play on vending machines, and send text messages, as the former government coalition has said over and over again from those who therefore support antisocial charges. Since 2000, citizens' health spending has increased more than threefold. People pay more than 40 billion for health. CZK except for what they pay for health insurance. Of which, in 2012, households issued 5.53 billion. CZK for medical fees, pharmacy and hospital fees. Specifically, for hospitalization of 2.1 billion. Kroner, for outpatient care 1.47 billion. Kroner, for a recipe of 1.78 billion. And for an emergency of 0.18 billion. Crowns. Private expenses, such as direct payments of patients for medicines, above-standard care and regulatory fees, now account for more than 16 percent of the money spent in Czech health care. In 2007, when patients had not yet paid regulatory fees, private health spending was slightly more than 14 percent. This means that the introduction of charges increased this amount by 2 per cent. Patients' supplements for prescription medications are also constantly rising. The participation of patients in many groups of the population, especially seniors, disabled and chronically ill, was thus at the limit of load capacity. Moreover, the situation is deteriorating with the growing consequences of the economic and financial crisis for citizens of the Czech Republic. Along with the fees, the so-called social limit was introduced, but it failed in its original five thousandth form. Only after the reduction of part of the insured people protected this annual ceiling by more people. And that doesn't include a day's fee in the hospital and an emergency or medication. However, these facts are not evidence of the need to maintain regulatory fees, but only of an incompletely well-established system of funding for health care. Again, the regulatory function of charges is particularly questionable in chronically ill, disabled, people with injuries, blood and bone marrow donors, as well as hospitalized people who die in a medical facility, and in general, a situation where the frequency of visits to a doctor and the prescribed medications is not decided by the patient but by the doctor himself. Neither information on savings has actually been supported by any serious analysis so far. It is also not clear how many people who needed care did not go to the doctor or take the prescribed medicines and to what extent they put their health or even life at risk. However, if we want to talk about the need to deliver funds to the health system, and this is a lot to be said about the fact that hospitalization fees are not being paid now, there are certainly other ways that will not involve interference with already thin citizens' wallets. Especially in a situation where, according to qualified estimates, funds of more than 20 billion escape from the health sector each year. Crowns. Fees regulate only demand, not the supply of health services. If there is a link between the fee and the healthcare facility that has chosen them, and the law so far explicitly dictates it, there is a demand for those who choose them to pay their patients as much as possible. That's economic law. This demand is the stronger the more other sources of income are threatened, and that is what has happened in the past right-wing governments in the health sector. The government coalition has set up a murderous mix of restrictive payment orders, raising VAT, inflation, and the negative consequences of its own disastrous so-called reforms. For example, only one. The increase in VAT rates, in particular the sharp increase in the reduced rate to 15 per cent in 2013, and the transfer of some medical resources from reduced to the basic rate of VAT, has a significant impact on the cost increase throughout the health sector. The impact for 2013 on the whole health system is estimated at 4 billion. Crowns. And the reverse reduction in the VAT rate by 1%, by one percentage point, only for medicines issued and paid for the recipe means a reduction in the system's load by 500 million. A year's worth of crowns. Here are the ways to find where the money they need for the public health insurance system, not in patients' pockets. The Ministry of Health therefore has the opportunity to compensate for the lack of funds systematically, not from patients' pockets, and to return to the principle of solidarity, for example, by reducing the VAT rate in the health sector or permanently abolishing the ceiling on premiums for the richest income, by increasing the percentage of GDP to a level comparable to that of other European Union countries, as well as the consistent control of the financial flows in the health sector, so that these solidarity public funds are not wasted. For these reasons, which I have listed, I beg all of you to support my amendment to this bill. Since the amendment has, of course, been put into the system and there are some other things that need to be fine-tuned, let me read here one amendment, which is very short and related to the previous one, so that technically everything fits, so that everything is legislatively correct: "To Rule I. paragraph 12 in § 53 para. In the second sentence of the second sentence, in the part after the semicolon, the words 'control fees to be counted against the limit referred to in Section 16b and the proof of payment' shall be deleted'. Thank you all for your attention and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Sona Marková. In a detailed debate, Mr Václav Klučka will take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, fellow Members, first of all, allow me to make a brief statement to the screen record, as it is according to the Steno Protocol of the Rules of Procedure on 4. 2. I really found out what I thought I didn't make a motion to return to committee. This was conditional in case I did not get the reply of the Minister and the rapporteur, which I did not get, so we interrupted the negotiations for a short period of time and there we agreed to interrupt to this day as another point after the fixed points. It's just for the log, otherwise, basically, nothing serious happened. [[11.10 hours]] Now, in line with the content of my speech, let me inform you that you will find in the system under Parliamentary press 301 my amendment, which has been prepared together with the Ministry of Health legislation and addresses exactly what I pointed out the last time, i.e. to balance the situation after the hospital's regulatory fee has been abolished. [[correct: I have a document]] And I beg you for the subsequent approval of this proposal at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u7	I thank Mr Václav Klučka. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Mr. Freedom. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed debate, I would like to respond to the amendment that has been made here, namely the amendment to the immediate abolition of regulatory fees. Of course, that's possible. We can vote for it. It will mean that from that point on, the amount will be missing in the health system. If you do not know, the payment decree was amended at the time the regulatory fees were introduced, and the sum linked to the regulatory fees was actually withdrawn from the insurance company's payments. This means that the financing of health care will be reduced by fees. These fees are already deducted from the remuneration of health insurance companies for individual health establishments. At the same time, we would have to decide if we wanted to do this, how this sum will be replaced. Otherwise, we'll get into a situation where we're in a hospital day off because the money's just not there. And I repeat, we should clearly hear from the Minister of Health, where the money will come from and when. Because for some establishments, as we have talked about it here, for follow-up facilities, for mentally disabled beds, etc., the loss of the fee for a day of hospitalization means that they are not able to exist, because they do not have any other income, because they do not do any performances and receive money from the performance rate only for medicines, which is the reimbursement of costs. Each social talk must also contain facts that have an impact on it. Of course, I understand that it is necessary to act in a way that we are not socially insensitive and assertive. But every general decision means a huge distortion of the system. A flat decision that brings money to health care, or takes it, will in any case damage it. There is no analysis of whether or not regulatory fees regulate anything. There is no serious survey on this matter. These things are said here, but they're not true. Whoever is doing this activity as such knows the effect of these charges. And, of course, we can discuss how we're going to set them up in the future, but we can't say: now, at this point, we're going to cancel them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u9	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and now Mrs Soňa Marková has made a point of fact. Electronically. She's first, Mr. Colleague. [[To the envoy of Mr Adamc, who was coming to the speaker.]] Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u10	Thank you for the floor. There's only one thing I'd like to say in response to my previous speaker. Medical fees are not included in the health insurance system. They're not. They're the income of those who collect the charges. This means that the explicit law does not dictate how they should be used. It's just to pour some pure wine. First of all. Two. Now that you've implemented the charges, I think you who voted for them, the right-wing government coalition, you haven't asked what impact it will have on patients. You didn't ask them at all. I remember the doctors at the time saying, "We're not toilet girls to collect any fees. A few years have passed, and it seems to be a completely unsolvable problem. And I'm glad there was one thing. Indeed, there are no serious analyses to demonstrate the justification that they were introduced here and, in my opinion, there are unconstitutional health fees at the moment, because the two conditions that the Constitutional Court has given, i.e. that they are regulatory and that they should not be choking, they have not been fulfilled. The charges should have been canceled a long time ago!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Sona Marková. Now, with a point of fact... Or with a proper application by a colleague, Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think with a proper reminder. I'd like to respond to Mrs Marková. I was one of those criminals who voted in the Senate because we didn't discuss this law at all. But the reason was clear. Even though we did a lot of seminars, a lot of public hearings, there was only one person who came from the opposition. He just wasn't interested in it at all. I'm very surprised. And I must say that the only person was my colleague on the Economic Committee, the later chairman of the Economic Committee, who showed interest in this. Otherwise, there was never any discussion where there were no cameras. It's true that I never talk to the health department, I'm talking about economic matters. It is also true that in those hospitals fees are collected very strangely, that is true. I happened to have almost bled out here two days ago, and I was taken to Military Hospital, where I had a huge problem paying the fee - a physical problem. Because nothing worked, I couldn't exchange money, no one was interested. However, the doctor, by the way from Ukraine, liked to treat me very much and we solved the fee ex post. I think things need to be said the way they are. My colleague, Freedom, beat me to it. I'm looking at it economically. I'm asking you, where are the small hospitals going to have the receipts that fell out today? That's what you have to say. A big hospital can handle it. Let's not talk about it when we put in charge... Let's deal with the situation now, the way it is! I think you need to say, yes, you want to cancel, cancel. But where will the blackout be paid for? That's what I'm most interested in. Because I wouldn't want to live to see that in Trutnov, where I live, the hospital gets into such horrible minus numbers that it can't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u13	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. A colleague, Jiří Skalický, applied for the floor. I'll give him my word right now. And please repeat that we are in a detailed debate. I therefore ask for a response in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, I apologize, just a brief response to Mrs Marková to the abolition of regulatory fees and to her amendment in a detailed debate. Of course, regulatory fees can be abolished and they are likely to be abolished. We all know that. But let's realize it's really going to be 5.2 billion. the total amount and this money will be missing from the health insurance system. Whoever the recipient is. That's right. And if in the future the funds are replaced in a different way, then why not? And for me, one thing is much more fundamental. Okay, the charges won't be collected, they'll be replaced in a different way. But I see the greatest risk in that patients' views on the use and use of health and health care will be completely changed or modified, i.e. in quotation marks everything is just absolutely free and the roundabout spins that will increase and use health care as it was before. I consider this risk to be far greater than the fact that charges are abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u15	Thank you. Mr Pavel Kováčik, then Mrs Marková and then Mr Mackovík. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hello. I would really like to draw attention to what the President has pointed out, which means that we are at third reading. However, the debate has begun, so just please say the whole thing: 5.2 billion. canceling the charges will really go away, but let's say what was before! Like the 5.2 billion. Did the health department actually leave? Who has raised VAT for health care - not just for medicines and medical devices, but for all the other things that are used in health care? Who covered the health insurance contributions? And there's the 5.2, and maybe a lot more billions, which now seem to be flattering by abolishing unconstitutional fees, unconstitutional fees, some of us are weeping. So please be objective! I would like to ask that we go back to the matter of the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u17	We are at second reading in a detailed debate, again pointing out. But I have here a factual comment by Mrs Marková and a colleague Mackovík will be prepared, then a colleague Jakubčík. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. My previous speaker overtook me a little bit in response to his two colleagues, but I just want to say that I don't think there's any need for us here to talk about something that's free and that people are gonna think they have free health care. Of course, no one can think that at this point, because everyone pays public health insurance, or almost everyone, we pay a health tax of basically 13.5%, so talk about me having free health care, maybe only those who don't know anything about it, but I suppose it was just used, as it is always used in the fight for fees. And one more thing. In health care in public health insurance there are over 220 billion crowns. Medical fees are about 5 billion each year. crowns, there is no increase in the number of what is collected. On the contrary. And here again, I'm going to repeat one thing. The premium ceilings have been abolished at the same time as these fees were introduced. It was a sticker. The Senate didn't discuss it at all. Cases relating to payments for state insured persons have also been covered. Consciously, it took about 10 billion from the system to replace the 5 billion. from patients' pockets! It's a complimentary thing to say, gentlemen of the former government coalition, through Mr President!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u19	Thank you for keeping time. [[A messenger is about to arrive at the speaker's desk. Adamec.]] Now, with the factual remark of my colleague Mackovík. I ask my colleague Adamec to report electronically, if necessary, because I have to comply with the Rules of Procedure, and I have no choice but to prioritize the electronic application. Now, Mr Stanislav Mackovík, Mr Jakubčík will be ready. I'm going to put my colleague Adamec on the verdict. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, health fees are really a problem, and the only thing they regulate is that they regulate the availability of health care for the low-income groups of our patients, for pensioners. Let's remember that they were also introduced for children, and then they got canceled. And our health care hasn't ruined it either by being abolished in children's patients. We're talking about five billion that are supposed to flow from patients, and I don't think disease is the advantage they should be paying for. I believe that the state budget would have those 2 billion. Find and compensate it for hospitals so they don't go bankrupt. But, as far as I know, hospitals crashed mainly on how payment orders were introduced and on how VAT was introduced. I really believe that this is a matter that did not fulfil the purpose, as it was named, it was not regulation, and those who wanted to take advantage of health care, so they found that way anyway. A lot of patients used what was really called. non-payments, free of charge, and that was a rescue. That's where part of the patients who abuse it moved, and we're unable to regulate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u21	Thank you. I have now announced to Mr Jakubčík, I give him my word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about medical fees. There were arguments: increase in VAT and other matters. But let's take one more thing: IZIP - 2 billion. Crowns. If we hadn't gone into such completely pointless projects, the money would have been there, regardless of any medical fees and any medical charges. Two billion. The hospital, which has 18 fields with 700 employees, could live for eight years without any problems. That means here, under a huge budget of 220 billion. This isn't about, say, 5 billion, this is about finding savings and not going into completely pointless projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u23	Thank you. Now Mr Jiří Koskuba, then Minister Stropnický, then Mr Kasal and then Mr Adamec. Please. Now, Mr Jiří Koskuba's colleague on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to lecture anyone here at all, but I have heard that we are in a detailed debate, and I do not believe that what we are doing here, Mr President, is a detailed debate. I, of course, would like to speak to the fees with an oddly different view than what I hear here from the left and the middle, but here we are discussing a matter that is not the subject of this point! I hear that people don't have free care - yes, I agree with Mrs Marková - but it is a question of how much of the collected money will reach hospitals. I want to be here when we cancel the fees, to propose that we cancel the motorway fees, because oddly enough, I'm paying VAT on the car, fuel, excise duty, etc., so I'm probably also paying on the freeway, and I'm sure I'm going to hear from the new government that they're going to save billions and it's going to go favorably on the grandma and grandpa, how often we use, who drive a car to the family or to the cemetery. Mr President, this is not the subject of this point, I am sorry. We are stalling, we are sure to get to it, it is a popular topic, but please let us focus on what we are discussing here, a detailed debate. And I am sorry that I, too, have been seemingly out of order in this debate, but I wanted to point out that the negotiations have slipped somewhere they shouldn't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u25	I thank Mr Koskuba. I feel the same way, my fellow Members, but I cannot give you the floor on a factual point, because I do not know if you will recall anything about a specific proposal that has been made in a detailed debate. I can lead you to order by inviting you to comment. I've done that before. I do not intend to prolong the negotiations and give the floor to Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický - also to a factual remark to which he has applied in order. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Michael Schumacher struggles for his life in Grenoble in a hospital where there are quite simple walls, simple floors and doctors there take 15,000 euros a month. Go check out Motol's new pavilion. It's all glass and aluminum, maybe marble, and doctors take 2,000 euros a month. That seems to me to be a much bigger problem than medical fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u27	Thank you, Minister Martin Stropnický. Now Mr Kasal and then Mr Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I've only been very brief. I will respond more or less to Mr Koskuba on behalf of the President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are really discussing the amendment to cross-border care and the transposition of this amendment. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u29	Thank you to the rapporteur. Of course, I'll give him a word at any time, but there were factual points and I had no other chance. Please, Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u30	Thank you for letting me go. I'm sorry, I won't hold up. I would like to say to Mrs Marková from Náchod, through Mr President, that the Senate has discussed medical fees, only according to the law it did not deal with them in plenary. There were several events, activities, public hearings. Unfortunately, your colleagues from the Senate weren't there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u31	Thank you. In fact, the comments were exhausted. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case; I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for final words. Minister with the final word. The rapporteur reports that he will not be interested in the final word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me express my opinion on the amendments that have been made here. First of all, Mr Klučka's amendment. As has been said, the amendment is created in accordance with the legislation of the Ministry of Health and we support this legislative technical regulation. On Mrs Marková's proposal. Here I must say that, for the Ministry of Health, we express our fundamental opposition to this amendment. I'll tell you why. The first reason is that House Press No. 10, which contains the transposition of the directive on cross-border care, should in no way be burdened with proposals other than those directly linked to the implementation of the directive in question, the more so than that the transposition period for the implementation of the directive into national legal systems expired in October 2013 and the Czech Republic is therefore in real danger of initiating infringement proceedings of European Union law. Secondly, the Ministry of Health plans to abolish regulatory fees, with the exception of emergency charges, with effect from 1. 1. 2015. We believe that such a step can only be taken after proper consultation with all the entities concerned and after an assessment of any impact not only on the entities concerned and should be carried out by a proper legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-07-ps2013-006-04-006-002.u33	I thank the Minister for the final word. Since there have been no proposals that we should vote on both now and possibly for third reading, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. Let's keep going. The next item in our meeting is item item adjourned.
