ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u1	99. Annual report of the Czech Radio Council on the activities of the Czech Radio for 2013 /German press 163/ This House press has discussed the election committee, whose resolution has been delivered to you as House press 163/1. I now ask the rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and, if necessary, to present a motion for a resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, good afternoon. Given the time, I will attempt a footage as effective as my previous speaker, Mr. Birke. Czech Radio was discussed in the Election Committee on the same day as Czech Television, that is, May 22. In a nutshell to the content of the annual report. It is good to recall that the situation is the same as on Czech television. This means, according to the legislation currently in force, in this case it is Law No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, presents two reports. By the end of March it is a report on the activities and by the end of August it is a report on the management of the Czech Radio. Among other things, this was discussed that these reports should be merged, and in the case of radio, the electoral committee also adopted a resolution accompanying the Ministry of Culture and saying more or less the same thing as the Czech Television. But I'll take a few words about what happened on the radio last year to give you an idea. Radio was undergoing dynamic restructuring and changes, unlike Czech Television. On January 1, 2013, the internal operation, divided into so-called sections, started in sharp operation: the programme and broadcasting sections and other sections. The key, just programmed, is divided into a broadcasting centre, a news centre and a production center. It is the voice that follows to separate the costs of the broadcast itself, the creation of the program and its provision, if you want to do the service activities. During the discussion were also mentioned such milestones that the radio experienced in 2013. It was already mentioned a sharp start of operation in the regime of new centres, it was also the introduction of a new logo, the so-called rebranding of radio. It's probably a well-known logo for you today, the R with the gaps. Further renumbering, renaming all stations, relatively much discussed establishment of the station Český rozhlas Plus by sort of merging the original Czech Radio 6, Radio Czech and Leonardo. Also a gradual change in the structure of regional stations and finally an extraordinary election broadcast. The Election Committee has adopted its resolution, which I will introduce you to, then I will sign up to it and propose its approval. It is Resolution No. 47, which says that the Election Committee, after hearing the opening words of the President of the Council of the Czech Radio Michal Stehlík and the news report by Martin Kolovratník, first recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the Annual Report of the Council of the Czech Radio on the activities of the Czech Republic in 2013, according to the Parliamentary Press 163, instructs the President of the Committee to present the resolution to the President of the House and empowers the rapporteur to submit this report." That's all for now. I will enter into a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u3	I thank the rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. Mr. Mr. Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u4	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I have noticed that there have been relatively significant changes in the organization of Czech Radio as well as following what the rapporteur said. It would be good if the financial part of the report, or the report dealing with the management, had some reaction to the changes that have taken place. But it probably won't be entirely possible to evaluate the period 2013, maybe only in the following. It would certainly be good if there were some evaluation of changes regarding the quality of the broadcast or the ratings. In the following reports, which will be in the coming years, both in the activity report and in the financial report, I would like to mention how the restructuring was reflected on the costs and ratings of the Czech Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u5	I thank Mr Hovorka. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. I'm not registering any applications. I am therefore ending the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail, which Mr Kolovratník has already made himself known in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u6	Thank you. I will respond to my colleague Hovorka immediately and say yes and confirmation. He actually exists this problem now, because if you were to read into the activity report, you only see a statement. When I simplify, a dry statement that the Czech Radio Plus station was created. It was formed by merging the previous ones. A new logo was introduced, a new name was introduced, etc. But first of all, you do not know how much it cost in this report, how it was reflected in the budget, whether it was the radio or a little while ago, and we also do not know what impact it had on listening. Again, it is good to recall that it can be evaluated after a year in the case of radio broadcasts. When we discuss the second management report here in the House in the fall, we'll definitely be asking about the financial side. As I have already announced, we will focus this on joint discussions with the Ministry of Culture to bring the reports together into one where you can see the changes that the institutions have made and, at the same time, how it has reflected in its management, or the consumption of concessionary fees, which we are all paying after all. [[13.00 hours]] On that discussion on radio, I would also like to mention that it was quite demanding and long, from the electoral committee that such an opinion and a request for the system to change, that we not merely state and accept something, but that the House be a partner of the Czech Radio Council and also send some signals to it. This has been accepted positively by the board of the Czech Radio, the newly elected Dr Stehlík, and I think there will be some changes in this too. And one last piece of information before I propose a resolution and ask for their approval, I will point out that in the case of Czech Radio we have agreed, outside the official resolution, that we will request Czech Radio, respectively. advice, in writing, on some details of those points that I mentioned today, e.g. Rebranding or the establishment of Český rozhlas Plus station, and this was officially acknowledged. That is all, we are already running out of time, so please, Mr President, we can vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u7	We cannot, because I am registering another application for a detailed debate, and that is Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I wanted to tell the rapporteur by your means only about the mention of the new programme of the Czech Republic Plus that the programme, which came out of Radio 6, from Czech Radio 6 and previously Free Europe, has changed significantly and is still, in its own way, an interesting commentator's radio. But given that it is broadcast on medium waves and is only catchable on FM in Prague, it is constantly and almost malignly losing audience because, unfortunately, the medium waves are no longer appearing on radios today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u9	I thank Mr Heger. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. There's no such person. I am therefore ending the debate in detail. We will vote on the resolution. I ask Mr Kolovratník to introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u10	I think that, like in Czech Television, I can ask for a vote together and for the accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u11	One more detail, please. As I have been informed, accompanying resolutions must not be addressed to the Minister, but to the Government as a whole. So I ask that we clarify the accompanying resolution in this respect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u12	So I'll specify it. The Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare a legislative measure leading to the merger of the annual report on the activities of the Czech Radio and the annual report on the management of the Czech Radio in a single document in order to allow a comprehensive assessment of the content and form together with the costs and quality of the broadcast of the Czech Radio.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u13	Thank you. If no one objects to the accompanying resolution, we will vote together on the resolution of the electoral committee. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 145, registered by 103 Members, for 77, against 2, a motion for an accompanying resolution and a resolution has been adopted. I'm done discussing this point. I'm declaring lunch break by 2:30. At the same time, I would like to point out that the suspended European Committee, for the members of the European Committee, will continue at 13.30. Thank you and enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u14	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Welcome to this afternoon's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies with interpelations for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. First, before we get to the interviews, let me read the apologies. This afternoon, Mr Faltýnek apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Sedláček apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Hnyková apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Tomáš Podivínský apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Vondrášek apologises for reasons of work, Mr Ivan Pilný apologises for reasons of work, Mr Sklenák apologises today from 12.45 to 16 hours for reasons of work, Mr Havíř apologises from 16 o'clock today for personal reasons and for tomorrow's meeting also for personal reasons. That's all from an apology so far. We will engage in interpelations, but first, before we go to the interpelations, the chairman of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek report with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly sorry to the Prime Minister and to you that I am taking advantage of my right of priority vote, but some information is to such an extent scandalous that it requires an immediate response. Today, Minister Jurečka published brief information on his website: "I am seriously considering proposing to the government a reduction in excise duty on beer. Kalouskův increase" - Kalouskův increase, I repeat - "has reduced the collection of this tax and the total production of beer in the Czech Republic." Sorry I don't have the "it's all my fault" T-shirt now, but let me introduce you to the objective verifiable fact on this occasion that neither Minister of Finance Kalousek nor Member Kalousek has ever proposed an increase in excise duty on beer, nor has he ever voted for it. I'm not saying this to make me feel the need to demente every crap Minister Jurečka has to say. If I had this ambition, I could do nothing but stand behind this counter and constantly dement all the crap that Minister Jurečka says. I'm saying this because the sight of this government is sad. A naive pig pimp as Minister of Agriculture is involved in taxes that are in the competence of the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance is interfering with the situation at the Ministry of Justice, and he seems to be dealing with nothing else. The Prime Minister, who is responsible for this, thinks of nothing but being Prime Minister tomorrow morning. It is indeed a very sad sight for this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u16	In addition, the President of the ODS MP Stanjura shall have priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will first respond to my previous speaker, my honored colleague, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club. He is slightly wrong, because the Minister of Finance is still dealing with the Ministry of Health in a fundamental way, not just justice, to be fair. However, I have a polite request to the Prime Minister if they could improve communication within their own MP's club. Thirteen interviews with the Prime Minister are from his club, this is Mr. Šincl's specialist, poor man, you never tell him anything, and then he has to take the opposition time to ask her his Prime Minister. I know it can be that sometimes some of my colleagues used it, too. I have never entered into a debate with a question: Prime Minister, why are you so good, perhaps you can no longer be better. And then you say, "Yes, I'm so good." And then comes the follow-up question: This is not entirely true, you are even better. But I think if we don't want to completely de-honest the discipline, it would be good to use it as a saffron, because that's really what MP meetings are for. No offense, really. You liked how cool that was last time. Well, you can enjoy it again. If you want to play theater with your own party colleagues, then sometimes go to their club, tell them how it is, and they don't have to ask how it is with minimum wage, how it is with health fees, how it is with investment incentives, how it is - again the second question - the minimum wage, it directly worries members of the club ČSSD. It's like you don't rule. Try telling them and give them space or leave us some space. I know you enjoy it and you have questions and answers prepared that you always take 2+5+2+1, nine or ten minutes. Why not? I say some of my colleagues used it too to be fair. I didn't like it when I was in government booths, I don't like it here either, but the rate is really unprecedented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u18	I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u19	Thank you. Firstly, I think this is a very interesting precedent that, at the moment, when the time is reserved on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies for the interpelation of Members to the Prime Minister, the chairmen of opposition clubs with preferential rights are speaking here and taking up the time for the interpelation for their own members. If President Stanjur cares so much, as he said here, that the ODS' interpelling Members should be on the line, he should not be taking time by acting completely out of order here. He should apply properly for an interview so that he can speak in this section of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. I want to point out that applications for interpelations are being drawn. I, as an opposition member, also interviewed the Prime Minister very often during the last parliamentary term and respected the fact that other Members of the Chamber of Deputies were drawn before me. Very often, they were also members of the ODS who intersected Prime Minister Nečas during the last parliamentary term. And I have never noticed that, in recent years, President Stanjura of the ODS would appear here publicly in the Chamber of Deputies and criticize his colleagues from the ODS that they are taking up space for interpelling members of social democracy. If President Stanjura has now changed his mind at the moment when the ODS is no longer in the government and when he is in opposition, he certainly has the right to do so, but I would very much like it if we did not cancel this item by the management meeting procedure, because we are now here to discuss and take up the whole time that is firmly scheduled within 16 hours for an interview for the Prime Minister. And I think that this is a kind of contempt for those who have filed their applications for interpelations and want an answer from the Prime Minister at a time that is determined by the Rules of Procedure to do so. It struck me alone that the Governing Meeting gave the floor at the beginning of this item to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club. I do not want to draw anything from the fact that both the management meetings and Mr Kalousek are here in this Chamber of Deputies, but in my opinion it is a procedure which, if we continue to do so, we can cancel the item completely from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, because next time, President Sklenák from the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club will come out here because he has priority rights, and he will use this moment to address the Chamber of Deputies and tell her something urgent, just as President Kalousek felt he wanted to say something urgent, his comment on the statement by the Minister of Agriculture. However, this item is not called a statement from the Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club on the communication of Minister Jurečka, but is called an interpellation of Members to the Prime Minister. I would like to ask the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies to clarify this, because in the future it could practically mean a complete abolition of this point simply because the interventions would be completely crowded out by the speeches of those Members of the Chamber of Deputies who have priority rights. I am not the one who started this discussion, I am not the one who first came forward in this discussion, two speakers who have priority rights before me, and the governing meeting gave them the floor, which means it allowed them to speak on this matter. The moment he allowed them to come out, I volunteered, too, simply because I also have a priority right. [[14.40 hours]] Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much advocate that we do not destroy this point in a way that we will not respect the customs in this Chamber of Deputies to make it possible that when there is a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on Thursday, Members have the opportunity to interpel the Prime Minister. Nowhere is it said: Members of the opposition have the opportunity to interpel the Prime Minister. It is the Members and Members of this Chamber of Deputies. After all, it is not possible for us to reduce the scope of the rights of government Members in this matter, in order to prevent government Members from interpelling with ministers or the Prime Minister. Moreover, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have a coalition government in our country, so it is not the government of one political party. In the past, we have had monochrome governments here, this government is made up of three coalition parties, and we can hardly distinguish between coalition MPs. I am not angry with the Coalition Member or even with Members from my own side if he has a question concerning government policy. I will try to answer every such question honestly within the framework of the intercession, and I will not distinguish between asking a member of the Government Party or asking a member of the opposition party. I felt the need to comment on the debate. Once again, I stress that I did not start it, that I am somewhat surprised by the procedure of the management meeting on this matter, by the way in which he gave the floor to the Chairman of the TOP 09, in order to express his views on a matter which does not at all concern this approved item of the Chamber of Deputies. I would also ask that this matter be discussed in the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would also ask that we do not continue in this debate now, that it should come to Members who have duly applied for the intercession and have been duly drawn, and I would also ask that the order of Members who have duly signed up and who have been drawn in order not to get ahead of those of them who have priority rights should also be respected. Please, let's not get ahead of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u20	I apologize to the Prime Minister, but both he and I must abide by the laws in force. The main order for me is the House's Rules of Procedure Act, which is clearly stated in Section 67: Whenever they so request, the President shall give the floor to the President of the Republic, to the member of the Government, to the President or Vice-Presidents of the House, to the President of the Assembly. And I can go on. If the Rules of Procedure make it clear to me that whenever the President of the House of Deputies so requests, I must give him the floor. I understand that the Prime Minister does not like this, but I must give him the floor, ordering me to do so in the Rules of Procedure. The President of the TOP 09 and the starosta are now asking for the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I've asked for it, and you've given me your word in the law, too. If you feel that this is breaking some precedents, Prime Minister, then there is nothing easier than agreeing to change the Rules of Procedure, for example. Members of the coalition will no longer speak, because they certainly have a lot of other options to address their ministers, and how others will not use their preferential rights again. We can be more specific. Sure. We are not opposed to this debate. But as long as there are rules, it's just a deal. It is used by members of the coalition by interpelations in style: how do you do it, Prime Minister, that you are so smart and beautiful. And, of course, we opposition Members will always use that in terms of the right of priority word, as long as the rules are as we agreed. I assure you that when they are different, we will respect the others, and if you wish, Prime Minister, to discuss changing the rules on this subject, I assure you that we are ready. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to introduce a new style. I just wanted to respond to an unprecedented lie of a member of the government associated with a personal attack that he published on his website against me. And if he did this during the Chamber of Deputies meeting, then where else, colleagues, should I confide in you this feeling rather than at the Chamber of Deputies meeting to tell you that what Minister Jurečka published on his website is simply a stupid lie? And if it was just a stupid lie to one of the undercompetent ministers, I probably wouldn't be performing. But he's the total sad look on this government. Again, the naive pig pimp, God's management as Minister of Agriculture, is interfering with taxes. Taxes really do not fall under the competence law into the portfolio of the Minister of Agriculture. It probably doesn't matter, because the Minister of Finance, whose tax portfolios are covered, is again involved in the Ministry of Justice, where, as we have heard, he has consulted interpersonal ties and has consulted intensively the Minister of Finance's bracelet tender at the Ministry of Justice, and, as my colleague Stanjura rightly reminded me, the Minister of Finance is consulting equally intensively the processes and mechanisms at the Ministry of Health, perhaps also because he is buying some clinics and logically interested in this. So the Minister of Agriculture messes with the Minister of Finance to work, the Minister of Finance messes with the Minister of Justice to work, everyone does everything, nobody does anything, and the Prime Minister hovers over the water like a ghost, calmly and smiling, because he says, "Thanks for every new morning." If I don't want to make things right, I might be Prime Minister tomorrow. And that's the very sad look.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u22	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr Filip, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, came forward with priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. After him with priority rights, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize to everyone who's applied for an interview. Jan Werich said such a wise sentence: clowns, clowns, they are few, but clowns, clowns, they are. And the difference between a politician and a statesman is that he performs when he does and because he has pain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u24	I thank the Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u25	Thank you. I really do not recall, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, the fact that, in the history of the Chamber of Deputies in recent years, it would have happened at any time that there would have been a distortion of the scope for interpelling Members to the Prime Minister. It has always been that the Prime Minister has been prepared, a duly drawn list of interpelling Members has been prepared, and always within this point, which is precisely timed, only the Member, who was drawn in the first place, has been given the floor. I really do not understand this, and I ask how it is possible that President Kalousek, who was not drawn, was first given the floor, and I suspect that he does not even have any interpellation, and that immediately after him, President Stanjura, who is having an interpelation, and several interventions - it seems to replace the lack of activity of other members of the ODS by volunteering here several times with an interpellation. I don't blame him, I've done it, I've also had a few interviews with the Prime Minister every time during one of the interviews, so I'll have a better chance that he'll get to at least one of these interpellings, and I've always been angry with the ODS Members who applied to interpellation with their own prime minister because they were taking up the opposition space. But I think that's a common thing. It's under the rules. Everyone who came forward was drawn, no one was getting ahead of themselves. Everyone respected that, sitting here for an hour, an hour and a half, waiting for them to come in. To me, it seems at least rude that such a way is exploited and hacked the space reserved for interpelation. I would never have performed if Mr Kalousek and Mr Stanjura hadn't gotten the same space completely out of the order of the winning Members and Members. The space was breached by Mr Kalousek's speech, and then Mr Stanjura joined him, and that, in my opinion, is not okay. I would like to appeal to the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies for this to be clearly clarified, and if the Rules of Procedure allow such a breach of the premises for the Prime Minister's interpelation, then I would like to ask that the agreement between the Clubs of Deputies be followed by an old custom, that this space is protected from discussions by those who have priority rights. Because those who have priority rights can perform at any time during the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Whenever they can speak and get the floor, the governing meeting is obliged to give them the word at any time. They also have no time limit for their comments. It is, in my view, contempt for those who have duly applied to the interventions, that in this way it is done both by the relevant Members who have volunteered, although they must have known that this space is intended for interpelation, as well as in my opinion, and I apologise to Mr Managing, also from your side as managing this meeting, that you have allowed such speeches at a time which is reserved for the interpelation of Members who have duly applied and have been duly drawn. I want to protest this procedure. And I'm not saying it as Prime Minister, but I'm saying it as a member of this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u26	I'm sorry, Prime Minister, but I have to quote the Rules of Procedure again. In the Chamber of Deputies Subsection, and we both seem to agree that we are now at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, in Section 67 it is clearly stated that whenever they so request, the President will give the floor to the President of the House of Deputies. Unfortunately, it happened. I'm sorry, I have no choice but to comply with the law in force on the Rules of Procedure of the House. If, of course, you insist on specifying it or clarifying it or changing it, it is your right, I fully respect it. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and the Mayors. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u27	Thank you for the floor. I would like to congratulate you, Prime Minister, on the virtuosity with which you now imitated Major Borovička from the famous novel Škvoreckýý Tank battalion, which always said, "How is that possible?" This is possible because the law allows it to do so. If the law doesn't suit us, let's change it. I repeat once again that Members of the TOP 09 are very helpful to all agreements that specify these rules, whether they concern the question of intercession or anything else. But if the rules just allow us to do that, you can't stomp your foot and tell us how it's possible if it's based on the law we passed together. First of all. Secondly, it has to do with how seriously you feel about dealing with the opposition. I'm telling you that we're ready to discuss the Rules of Procedure, so maybe somewhere you'll tell the press that you'll treat us, but you don't really mean it. You are giving the public information on Saturday's interviews that you will discuss fiscal compacts with us and conditions to tell me that I cannot take this so seriously that you do not want to deal with us. So then we have no choice but to use the rules that give us applicable laws to tell the public how hypocritical the government is and how often its members lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-011-099.u28	So, thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 and the starosta. I think we're gonna get to the interpellations by now.
