ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u1	143. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the Foreign Route of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip I would like to call on Mr Kalousek, who has proposed this point to mention it. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for putting this item on the agenda and I promise to be very brief. I think the situation is very clear to all of us. It's not really about the fact that he's been around the organizational committee, even though we're very sorry about it as unfair and non-colegial. It is not at all that we would perhaps not wish Vice-President Filip a trip or consider the cost of the trip as a thrill. What really matters and why we believe that the Chamber of Deputies is to take a stand is the prestige of the Czech Republic as a credible partner within the European Union. [[10.50 hours]] After the annexation of Crimea, the European Union unanimously declared sanctions against the Russian Federation, including the Czech Republic's consent. Now, with the recognition of elections in both two separatist republics, we are beginning to talk about further strengthening sanctions in the European Union. From the very beginning, Vice-President of the State Duma is on the list of undesirable persons of the European Union, Mr Sergej Železňak, who sent his personal invitation to Vice-President Filip with an invitation to the Czech delegation. I'm not yelling at you, Dr. Černý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I dare the honourable Chamber of Deputies to ask for peace. If anyone has any conversations that they really want to have, and I don't want to appoint colleagues both on the left and on the right, please let them lead them in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u4	I'm very sorry, but I just don't have the training from the team's political training, and I just can't handle it. [[President: This honors you, Mr President, please continue.]] Thank you. In a situation in which, if the official representative of the Czech Republic, the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Parliamentary Party, visits the Russian House at the invitation of this person, it must be clear to all of us how professional Russian propaganda can exploit it and how foreign media will report it. Of course, none of us is even imagining how and how Vice-President Filip will talk about the common policy of the European Union in the framework of sanctions against the Russian Federation. This will be published there as the opinion of the official Czech representative, who officially visited the Russian Federation. I beg you very much to avoid this shame so that we don't get into a position where we discredit the already unfortunate statements of our high officials as a vicious position as a readable and credible partner. Let us wish Vice-President Filip a trip to Moscow. After all, it is November 5th, let your comrades celebrate there with their comrades the prazdnik grandojo oktjabrzej socialistiskoj revoljucii. That's perfectly fine, and I'm the last person to stop him. But please do not appear as a representative of the Chamber of Deputies, so that he does not appear as a representative of the Czech Republic. And this can be prevented by adopting a very simple resolution: the Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the foreign path of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip to Moscow at the invitation of Vice-President of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Sergej Železňak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u5	I thank Prime Minister Kalousek. At the same time, by speaking first at that point, I ask that he take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Miroslava Němcová joined first. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to say a few words as to why this item has been found at our meeting today. My colleague Kalousek said that it is probably clear to everyone what we are discussing here today, but I am afraid that this is not quite the case, and therefore I will look at the procedural side of the matter as to how this posting took place at all. You may recall who you are watching the appearance of individual political parties at their press conferences, that about a month ago, I don't know exactly, but it can be traced, the possibility appeared on the air that President Filip would fly to Moscow and lead a delegation to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The presidents of the MPs have been asked to nominate their representatives to this delegation. The Civil Democratic Party, I think the TOP 09 too, has refused to support this delegation by sending its representatives. And all of a sudden, it became something that neither Vice-President Filip nor, unfortunately, the President of the House of Hamáček knew the advice, and so they proceeded to fraud, the ingenuity that I will now describe to you. An application was submitted to the Organisational Committee for the secondment of Vojtěch Filip, who would lead the delegation, and the Organisational Committee should have decided on it. Just before this decision, this letter was withdrawn, this request being withdrawn, and the organisational committee will not discuss it. 14 days have passed, it's either 14 days or a week since the Organizing Committee reunited. And here it would be necessary for Vice-President of the House, Mr Bartošek, who probably didn't know what he was doing there, when we were discussing other foreign trips, asked: What about the trip to Russia? And all of a sudden, there was a panic on the side of the President of the House, on the side of the Vice-President of the House, looking at each other like what that means, and saying, "Nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, there's nothing wrong with that, there's not gonna be a way." And the rest of us members of the Organizing Committee have accepted a binding speech, a binding position from the President of the House, who said, if there is no way, there will simply be no way. And now we are told that he has deliberately bypassed, cheated the organizational committee by approving the path, which is what he has competence to do, but it is done in cases where the President of the Chamber of Deputies approves foreign trips without the organizational committee's knowledge only in cases where for time reasons it is not possible for the organizational committee to give its opinion on this. There were at least two opportunities here. A month of time was for the President of the House to tell him to be approved by the Organizing Committee, the Vice-President of the House to defend his intentions for this trip. Neither of them did. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I do not know when, the President of the House signed a road against which he knew that there was opposition from a part of the Chamber of Deputies, he knew what foreign policy situation Parliament was putting into. I will remind you that we adopted a resolution at the beginning of that year condemning Moscow's progress towards Ukraine and Crimea's annexation, and now there, in such a slippery, dark way with the help of intrigue, and I do not know what agreements and I do not know whether those gentlemen mentioned in the BIS administration, i.e. how many special representatives, spies spread in the Russian embassy, are being sent to Russia by the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I see this as a security risk to our country, I see in it the unprecedented fraudulent conduct by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the conspiracy negotiations with the Vice-President, because they knew that this trip was in the air, and they lied to us on the Organizing Committee. That's my point. I very much support the resolution proposed by Mr Kalousek here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u7	Thank you, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Mr Černý is also reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few words on this subject. I totally share the indignation of the members of the organizational committee who seem to be being cheated or at least misinformed. However, at this point, I cannot answer the questions that have been raised here. I'm not a member of the Organizing Committee. I have the honour to represent the chairman of our committee, but right now he is on a foreign trip, I presume a service, hopefully not a private one. He is there with the President of the House, Mr Hamáček, and therefore they are not here. Filip isn't here either, he's probably somewhere in the air right now, and if we want to prevent the shame, as has been said here, we'll probably have no choice but to instruct our air defenses to do what they can, and shoot down the plane. But I don't know if that's the right thing to do. Apparently, we can no longer prevent Vice-President Filip from likely landing in Moscow, I don't know exactly where he's going. There's only one thing I know - that he should probably meet with me tonight. with members of the Russian Duma, perhaps with members of a foreign or similar committee, but unfortunately I do not know more. I have no idea why the President of the House of Commons, Hamáček, signed this foreign trip, and I have no idea why they bypassed the organizational committee. I just don't understand. It's against principles. You know that Vice-President Filip, who had these things in his time, always made sure that the Organizing Committee was informed of everything, that everything would go just the way it should, and at this point it just isn't. I don't want to speculate what propaganda can make of it, either one or the other, they're both definitely working. I don't know which better, which worse, but they both work very hard. And I have only one big concern that the more we are going to be this essentially internal problem of the House - because that is the failure of the internal organs of the House, which apparently didn't do as they were supposed to. If we vent this problem too much, in my opinion, we won't be much help. I do not agree with my colleague Němcová that this would be a particularly high security risk if the journey is already in progress, unless we can effectively prevent it from happening otherwise, and I recommend that we wait until both of us mentioned actors of this escapade, both the President of the House, Mr Hamáček, and Vice-President of the House, Mr Filip, give an explanation. That is why I would like to propose the adjournment of this point, the interruption of this point until both of them are present. Filip is, as far as I know, coming back tomorrow night or at night and Mr. Hamáček maybe someday on Friday, I don't know. At the moment they are present, we can go back to this topic and discuss it in such a way as to bring order, remedy and, if possible, prevent such excesses from happening again, but we may no longer be able to prevent this foreign journey from happening. Obviously, we have already understood from the interpretation that this is not a private journey, that it is a journey that will already be seen as a foreign journey in the gesture of our Parliament. There's probably nothing we can do about it, but we're gonna have to wait for both gentlemen to explain what was in the matter or why they decided what they decided. And since both of them are very well aware of the processes that precede foreign travels in the House, I am convinced that they have enough reasons, enough arguments to justify their actions, and I will wait impatiently for them to do so. But until they're here, I consider further negotiations to be more of a security risk to us, because we're just going to degenerate each other, and it's not going to do any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u9	I thank Mr Černý. He has made a procedural proposal, but the rapporteur is reporting with the rapporteur's opinion. I shall vote on the procedural proposal immediately without debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u10	I understand. However, as the rapporteur and as the rapporteur for the motion for a resolution, I say that, although this opinion would sound correct in a normal situation, it is nothing more than that by adopting it, its proposer, that the journey will actually be seen as an official foreign trip from the Czech Republic, which is exactly what we, who have tabled by my mouth the motion for a resolution, are trying to prevent. Nothing will happen tonight except that the Vice-President - I know he's in the air, and it was probably important to keep it from us until the last moment. That's why we found out from the paper today. Nothing will happen except that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip will meet with the Russian House Members tonight at the invitation of Sergej Železňak, the embargoed persons within the European Union, and meet them as the official representative of the Chamber of Deputies. And whatever he says there, the Chamber of Deputies will say with his mouth. Those of you who will vote for interruption will agree to this situation. They will agree that Vojtěch Filip and Železňak Sergej are speaking for you tonight. We of you who do not want to risk it, who believe that this threatens the prestige of the Czech Republic in a significant way as a reliable partner within the European Union, we of us who believe that it devalues and discredits the official foreign policy of the Czech Republic, we ask that we - There's no stopping the journey. Vojtěch Filip will meet his comrades today. But it only matters to you whether they will meet them as Vojtěch Filip, Chairman of the KSČM or Vojtěch Filip, representative of all of us. I'm warning you, I'm begging you to represent all of us. Let him represent his side!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u11	That was the opinion on this proposal. Mr Černý wants to modify his proposal in some way, which I will then vote on without debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't want to modify it, I just want to point out to the rapporteur by your means that I thought we would leave the propaganda - I have priority rights, gentlemen, at the moment, just like you. [[notes in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u13	I'm sorry, my colleague, I understand the right of priority, but with the right of priority, you would be the fourth in line. Now I've got three others logged in. If you do not want to modify your proposal, it is my duty to put it to a vote. I have a request for everyone to check out. So I'm signing you off and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. I shall put to the vote to interrupt this point until the two are present, i.e. President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 150, 138 Members are registered, for 61, against 71, this proposal has not been adopted. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] Let's keep going. They first came forward with priority rights: the President of the KDU-ČSL, Jiří Mihola, followed by President Stanjura, followed by Vice-President Bartošek, followed by the Member. So these three. Mr. Mihola, please. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say on behalf of the KDU-ČSL that we do not agree with this path, we are attached to the arguments that have already been raised here, and we are ready to support the resolution mentioned here by President Kalousek. We believe, just a brief summary, not only the unfortunate term and the situation, but above all, we really consider it very unfortunate that the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic should be represented by a representative of one party, and also at the request of a person who, as was also mentioned here, is on the index of both the European Union and the United States. I would also like to stress, however, that KDU-ČSL is certainly not a party that wants to defend itself in some way from discussing or transmitting information. After all, I suppose colleagues from other parties would also like to have that information. But in our country, the whole negotiation here about the delegation ended up not getting any detailed program, was actually bypassing the organizational committee and we were ready to suggest when, therefore, communicate and inform, so balanced. We wanted to suggest linking that trip to Moscow with the trip to Ukraine, so that really, when information and balance, so that it would be real and not just as. We also see a response in the foreign press. I have seen several articles that have dealt with this more or less and have pointed out that the Czech Republic is then becoming such a weak link of the European Union, or at all these attitudes towards the situation in the European East. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u15	I thank President Jiří Mihol. Furthermore, the President of the Citizen's Democratic Party, Zbyněk Stanjura, is the next party to the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u16	Thank you for the floor. I don't think I'm going back to that history. All club presidents received a letter from Vice-President Filip a few weeks ago. When I paraphrase: "I was asked by the Russian Ambassador to organize the way of the Chamber of Deputies or delegation under my direction at the invitation of the person on whom the embargo is held. " That's how it was formulated on the Russian side. But I'd like to ask the members of the government. We often hear how, unlike the previous parliamentary term or the previous term, foreign policy activities of all constitutional actors are aligned. I don't see it in this case. I see clear contradictions in the statements made by the President, by the various members of the government, now by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, who has decided that this journey will take place. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, but he's not here, I think he's on a business trip, so I understand he's excused. In that case, I would probably ask the Vice Prime Minister to tell us the government's position on this path and what actually happened. [[Granny]] [[A note from the diaper.]] It's not my fault. If the Prime Minister or the Foreign Minister were here, you'd be doing this on purpose, but we don't really organize the presence of government members. That is the responsibility of the government coalition, not the opposition. If there were two vice premieres here, at least I can choose which one I ask, but the second vice premier is simply not present. If another member of the government gets the answer, I don't mind if the Minister of the Environment or the Minister of Defence responds. I really don't. But I'd like someone for the government to formulate an opinion as to how the government is taking it. I mean, it's polite when you're visiting somewhere, and it's quite common for you to return the invitation, reciprocally. Which is not possible in this case, because our government has joined the sanctions. These are also our sanctions, not the sanctions of Američan and Brusel, but they are also sanctions of the Czech Republic, and obviously we cannot reciprocally invite this person, because we would move against our own sanctions. So I think that by approving this foreign trip, President Hamáček simply goes against the position of the Czech Government. We appreciated this position, in many parliamentary debates we said that at this point the Government of the Czech Republic has our support. And here we see a clear contradiction, and I would like either one of the government officials to comment on it, or at least say the Minister's or the Vice Prime Minister's position. It is clear to me that it cannot convey the government's position as a whole that it is likely, and I consider it almost certain that the government has not acted on this whole as a whole. Why would the government discuss this, too, when we all thought that the road wouldn't just happen? Nor did those plaintiffs have the courage to put the Organizing Committee to a vote. Because if there is a majority that is convinced that the path is simply to be done, it could have gone as standard, the government coalition has a majority in the organizing committee, it could have been approved, but we would have criticized it, but we would not have that point in plenary and we would have fully respected this. That's where it was downloaded, which made it clear that it wouldn't be, and we actually learned from the media last night when they asked about it, that the journey would just take place. So I'd ask one of the members of the government not to notice that I'm just turning to your chairman, I didn't mean that. Unfortunately, neither the Prime Minister nor the Secretary of State are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u17	Thank you to President Stanjur. Minister Stropnický is already in favour of the debate, but now Vice-President Bartošek, after him Vice-President of the KSČM Černý, after him the above-mentioned Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, after him President Okamura. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I think the thing is quite simple. Since the Organizing Committee has not discussed this trip, it is not possible to view Vice-President Filip's journey as a way of representing the Chamber of Deputies. And what is essential is that this trip has been discussed for a long time, so I asked the Organizing Committee how to deal with the invitation. I asked, and the answer I received is that since the Organizing Committee has not discussed this trip, there is no way. That's the answer we got. It was enough for me personally, I took it for granted. The truth is, I was also surprised by this information and rather unpleasantly surprised. On behalf of the people, I would like to say that we are expressing a major disagreement with this path. Firstly, it has not been discussed in the Organising Committee; secondly, it is not representative; it is not a delegation from the Chamber of Deputies. Given that we are taking this as a relatively unprecedented step, we will want it to be included in the next Organising Committee's meeting, and the proposal that we are going to make is that we are going to have fun, whether it is even entitled to reimbursement of this trip at the time it was not approved by the Organising Committee. This visit takes place at a time when the Russian party recognises pseudo-elections in parts of Ukraine, and we think that if the trip were to take place, it should be balanced and representative. The People's Party does not see this as a representation of the Chamber of Deputies in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u19	I thank Vice-President Bartošek. Mr. Vice-President Černý, with priority rights for the KSČM parliamentary club. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u20	Dear colleagues, I will not, of course, repeat everything that has been said here. I would also like to have more information, and I assume that you, too, would be much easier to decide if you could hear, for example, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, when we were already talking about him today, or one of the other actors in the case. But they're not here. They're just not here. Therefore, I will not go back to a proposal that has already been voted out and that you have not agreed to. Nevertheless, I am giving consideration to whether it would not be reasonable to do so before we embark on an escapade, whether or not the journey of my colleague Filip is official if it is signed by the President of the House, if he agrees with it. The information she ran on the board this morning or this morning on the TV was more of a guarantee that it was an official trip, it certainly didn't look like a private trip. And I would recommend first to get at least on the phone, if that's possible at all, so I don't know where the President of the House is at the moment, whether he's also on a plane or has landed somewhere, I don't even know - in Portugal? Or where they were supposed to go? [[Voice: Albania.]] Or Albania, oh, that's another committee. So maybe he's already on the phone, maybe it's possible to communicate with him, maybe he knows more than we do. I just don't know. I would certainly be inclined to hear his position on the phone at least. I would therefore like to ask the Secretariat of the President if he would not be able to contact him and inform him of what we are very interested in, because otherwise I cannot well imagine how what the rapporteur is proposing will be implemented. [[11.20 hours]] So it's Mr. Filip's private journey? All right. Well, try to give him a message. Send him what? A carrier pigeon? - somebody's advising. Excellent. Well, if it's up to us to let him know how to act after he gets off the plane, we can give it a shot. But otherwise, I'm afraid it will still be unproductive for our next act, to put it mildly, because it will lead to nothing reasonable. So I suggest you try to get in touch with both actors, hear their position, so we know what led them to do what they did. And then consult on what to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u21	I am sorry, Mr Vice-President, but the Chamber of Deputies cannot task the secretariat of both the President and anyone else. The meeting of the Chamber of Deputies concerns only duly elected Members. Furthermore, with priority law and probably the Government's position, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, followed by President Okamura, President Sklenák, President Kalousek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if what I'm about to say can be described as a government position, but that's more out of modesty, pardon me than an alibis. I'll limit myself to facts. The organizational circumstances of the trip are very unclear. At whose invitation is the event held? At the invitation of the High Representative, the political representation of contemporary Russia. The Russian who annexed Crimea, for example. Mr Sergej Železňak is on the EU index. This index is part of EU sanctions. The Czech Republic has applied to EU sanctions. It stressed the need to maintain Union unity. Recently, elections took place in Donetsk and Luhan region. Under the guard of machine guns, two leaders were democratically elected, whom no one knows exactly where they came from. So now they have the legitimacy of a proper election. But perhaps not proper according to our expectations and standards. The Russian Federation recognises these representatives, not democratic countries. Perhaps one more detail: the airspace of a number of European countries is constantly and intensively disrupted by Russian supersonic aircraft. I wouldn't make it any less difficult to tell if the Vice-President is in the air or in the sky right now. It is enough for me to say that these facts are in direct contrast with our foreign policy interests. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u23	I thank the Secretary of Defense for his words. Mr Okamura is the President of the Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. After that, the President of the Sklenák will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give the position of the Dawn movement. I'm a member of the Organizing Committee. We do not agree that this trip was not agreed by the Organising Committee because there was no time distress. I understand that when Chairman Hamáček, and there he has the authority, agrees to a foreign trip when there is a time of distress and the Organizing Committee no longer sits down. But this time was enough. The subject was even raised, but it was not discussed. So we think that, on behalf of Parliament, this journey should certainly not take this form. On the other hand, we are very sorry that both players are not here. So it would certainly not be for both of us to express themselves directly, both President Filip and President Hamáček. And so it is a pity that we are discussing this at this very moment when we cannot learn from President Hamáček the specific reasons why he was actually doing so. So I consider it a little bit that even today, the debate can't be substantially terminated. Finally, I wanted to say once again that as far as the topic of the visit is concerned, the Úsvit movement, if it really is about the issue of anti-Russian sanctions and the influence on Czech companies exporting there, it is definitely a discussion that we would like to take part in. And it is a pity that the discussion on this trip on this subject did not take place either on the Organising Committee, and that would certainly be necessary in itself. So I've expressed all three aspects of this journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u25	Thank you to President Okamur. Another duly registered priority right is the President of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman. The rapporteur Kalousek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues. One point is that I am quite surprised by the expression of some of my previous speakers, because the history was such that the chairmen of all the MPs received a letter from the Vice-President of the House of Filip saying that he wanted to prepare a delegation from the Chamber of Deputies. He invited us to nominate every club of a representative for this delegation. And it was I who doubted whether the delegation should go to Moscow. I was quite surprised that at one point, President Filip told me that all the clubs, with the exception of one and the Social Democracy Club, had already nominated their representative. ANO colleagues had a colleague, Rais, and KDU-ČSL was to go to the chairman of the club Mihola and others. I suspect that the ODS was the one who didn't nominate, and we wanted to talk about it as a social democracy. Then there was this organizational committee we're talking about. But he didn't take that route because the material was to be presented on the table and the material was not presented on the table. And I understand the question on the following organizational committee of Mr Bartošek that he is asking about the delegation's journey. It was answered to him, in my opinion, that it would not happen. That's how I understood it as a member of the Organizing Committee. What happened after that, unfortunately, I don't know. I do not know what request was made by Vice-President Filip to President Hamáček, which led and what steps the President of the House of Hamáček took. And I think that, indeed, without his presence and the presence of Vice-President Filip, it is difficult for us to decide this matter. When I hear such bold claims here, like that it was a fraudulent and conspiracy act and that it was intended to conceal something, I don't think we should approach such courts here until President Hamáček has made a statement about these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u27	Thank you, President Sklenák. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u28	Thank you. I would very much wish, without wanting to limit anyone, if this could be seen as the final speech of the rapporteur, because I think that this thing is perfectly clear to everyone. The experience, Mr Sklenák, through Mr President, has been enjoyed by the majority of club presidents in this House. I was also approached by President Filip, that they had already given all their representatives, only I had not, and that I should give someone quickly. And I said I wouldn't give him anybody. So it's this story about the chicken and the faucet. But please, nicely, I didn't suggest that point, and it was a resolution so we could figure out how it could happen, why it was to hug the committee, who was responsible. That's not what this discussion is about. We can talk about that on the Organizing Committee in a week, in 14 days, any time. I designed that point just because of the time emergency. Tonight, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip meets with the official mandate of the President of the Chamber of Deputies with representatives of the State Duma of the Russian Federation and its host will be Sergej Železňak. I can't say this any better than Minister Stropnický said. I'm just referring to his words. This is in direct conflict with the foreign policy of the Czech Republic and we will either adopt a resolution that we do not agree with this, and then we will report to the whole world that we are not represented there, or we will not adopt such a resolution, and then the whole world will know that Vojtěch Filip represents the Czech Republic there today. That's all it is, that's why there's no time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u29	Thank you to President Kalousek. Mr Ondřej Benešík is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u30	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if I have understood this correctly, but the subject of negotiations with the Russian Party was supposed to be what the retroactive effect of imposing European Union sanctions on the Russian Federation was. If anyone wants to talk to the Russian Federation about how the sanctions imposed on us on the Russian Federation are damaging us, I really, really, really think that's not very prudent at all. These are things that are absolutely not communicated in such forums, and it is our internal business. Let's wake up!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u31	Thank you to Prime Minister Benešík. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Jiří Koskuba. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, while I am a government coalition MP, I will not pretend to be somewhat staring at this House's agenda this week. But I see we're going to get to some very interesting points. I also do not hide that we spent hours on the important point of the forest kindergarten, which we devoted intensively to. But all of a sudden, as I'm listening here to the debate on the current point, there's one thing that stopped me. And I do not know if you have noticed this as Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic. The Minister of Defence has spoken here in the debate and, among other things, has remarked, and I have no reason to believe that his words do not believe that the air space repeatedly disrupts the supersonic aircraft of the Russian Federation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not a member of the Defence Committee nor am I familiar with what is and is not secret, but since you are Members of the Czech Republic, I think that since we have already given so much time to the forest kindergartens, it is far more important for sovereign country members to explain to us where the aircraft fly and what they are doing against it. This is a rather crucial point for me, and as a former soldier, I would like to hear this certain answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u33	I thank Mr Koskuba. Mr. President Jiří Mihola with priority rights now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u34	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly for a colleague of Roman Sklenák. I've said this before, but I'm gonna repeat it just in case. Of course, considering who the club was delegateing is possible, but it didn't go any further. We certainly haven't decided on anyone without a program. That makes me very comfortable. In no discussion before about the information, or as my colleague Benešík said, we have considered a different subject than that which ultimately results from this trip to Russia. So I would really very much object to the fact that everyone was actually ready to agree. It didn't get any further. That was at the very beginning. So we don't get it wrong. Each thing has a procedure and it was cut off at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u35	I thank Prime Minister Mihol. Now, with Mr Chalupa's factual remark, Mr Blažek is registered after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u36	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe just for some information and efficiency, there's a question here that we should be discussing how these planes are disrupting airspace and all that. There is no defence committee chairman here, so as Vice-President of the Defence Committee: each political party has its own representative in the Defence Committee. Let's talk about this on the defense committee! If you want information, have your deputies tell you who are working on that defense committee. I wouldn't hold back the House meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u37	Thank you. Yes, indeed, the inclusion of any other subject is open to Mr Koskuba or anyone else to propose every morning half an hour after the opening of the Chamber of Deputies. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u38	I apologize, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Defence of the Chalupo through the Vice-President, but if he leaves you as Vice-President of this committee completely cold what has just been said here... We're here to convene, or rather, you're here to convene extraordinary committees for much bigger banalities than what was said here today. I totally agree with what Dr. Koskuba said here. I think that the Defence Committee should certainly deal with this, or this House should deal with it. It's information that's fresh. And who other than the Chamber of Deputies should deal with security issues?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u39	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kalousek, Mr Koskuba, and then Minister Stropnický.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u40	Colleagues, on your knees, maybe somebody's jumping on somebody's so-called white dogs. We have one topic: whether or not we are represented today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow by Vojtěch Filip in the Russian Federation. Any one of us here is gonna say some sort of shady sentence, the rest of us are gonna fall for it. At this point, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip is already on the territory of the Russian Federation as our authorised envoy. Let us cut this by voting and leave all other important topics to other points and other days. But now we are under time pressure to tell Europe and the whole world in time if we have the strength and the majority that we really are not represented in Moscow today in Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u41	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Koskuba, followed by a factual remark by Minister Stropnický, Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to my colleague Kalousek. I know we have a subject here. I'm not illiterate enough to read it on the board. But I apologize to a fellow defense committee. This is the Chamber of Deputies. This is a debate. I'm sorry, but during the meeting, I heard from the Secretary of Defense that what I was commenting on had happened. Yes, if my colleague Kalousek is concerned, and I understand that there is a delegation moving somewhere without consent, I am just as concerned that perhaps at this point in time a stranger is chasing over our republic, and perhaps I understand a war machine. I'm sorry if we were discussing the explosion of the ammunition warehouse here, and I didn't enter into the discussion either, because it could be said that certainly the citizens of that village could have recorded a press conference of the government, where these problems were discussed, I will be satisfied with brief information from Minister Stropnickýý on this land, that at present there is no foreign war machine above our territory. That's all I care about. That's why I'm an MP. And I do not think that Parliament of the Czech Republic should pass on such a remark. And then, colleagues, don't be mad at me if we go over these notes too, it sounds awful, but then we really don't have to come here, and all we have to do is sit here with the chairmen of the MPs with the appropriate number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u43	I thank Mr Koskuba. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Martin Stropnický, followed by Mr Gabal. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just taking the liberty of reacting very briefly. I think it's moving away from what we're supposed to be dealing with right now. My comment was from completely open and available sources. I assume that such resources are also accessible to you, fellow Members and esteemed colleagues. And the occurrence of a foreign fighter over the territory of the Czech Republic is not really addressed in all due respect on the premises of this House. I also said in some territories of some Member States... [[There's still a high level of noise in the room.]] Please, just so I can finish, it's gonna be short.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u45	I'm sorry, and please, the House of Honor for peace. We're talking about not completely uninteresting topics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u46	And if you want the factual information in its particular austerity, as it has been published, then General Breedlove, the commander for Europe, has stated that the airspace of some alliance countries is being disrupted. Specifically, it is Portugal if you would like to be explicit. But all of this has been published in the past few days. And he applied for some reinforcements toward the United States government. That's all. Our airspace is not being disrupted at the moment. If that were to happen, believe me, that would be my first point at 9:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u47	Thank you, Minister. With another factual remark, Mr Gabal, Mr Černý, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u48	Vice-President, thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, Government, I would like to support the rapporteur's position in order to vote. Because the opinion of Russia's security behavior is mine. we will vote on the unrepresentability of the visit of Vice-President Filip. So I think in this vote we have a chance of expressing our position clearly and discussing these security issues that are mentioned in the paper, we can really save it for another time or for the Defence Committee. That's what I'm saying as his vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u49	I thank Mr Gabal. With the factual remark of Mrs Černochová, after her Mr, also with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u50	Before the vote, I would ask the rapporteur whether he would consider putting his resolution and my motion for an accompanying resolution together, so that the resolution in the fold sounds to the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, that he is ordered to send a letter to the House by electronic means immediately after the vote, and by other means, about the resolution which this Chamber of Deputies will take. [[with emphasis]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u51	Madam, although I love you, we are in a general debate. Please refer to the detailed debate on the motion for a resolution. Thank you. Now with a point of fact - please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u52	Have a good day. Ladies and gentlemen, just briefly. There's an amazing discussion going on here. I have a question for you. What is the greater risk for the Czech Republic - Mr. Filip's participation in the Duma, or the threat to the airspace by Russian fighters? [[There's laughter and applause, noise in the hall.]] If the risks are the same... I'd like to hear what's more risky. Because it seems very inappropriate to question what Mr. Koskuba said here. If Russia is threatening our airspace, I consider it a huge risk, and we should talk about it very seriously. Not only about the risk that Mr. Filip is taking in the Russian Duma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u53	I thank Mr Luzar. . [[That's right, a bucket.]] I would just like to point out that in this serious discussion, we were unbelievably looked at by young people. [[He's on his way to the guest gallery.]] Another registered priority right is Mr Černý. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, or I don't even know who, but somebody here was talking about propaganda and the exploitation of propaganda from one side or the other. I confess that, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, I was relatively calm when the Minister of Defence informed the Alliance member country about the threat to our or any other airspace because I considered it part of the propaganda. His speech simply had a propagandist character, and I thought to myself: well, it's not much like a propagandist could pull out, but if it has aroused concern in somebody - and Mr. Koskuba made it clear that he thought it was something else, I have to add something else to that. I don't know how much the Secretary of Defense is the Secretary of Defense and how much he's a propagandaist. But I am quite certain that to this day you are in open resources - because I have no other resources, either, but I am pleased that the Minister also has no other ones, and therefore we are in the same position - so I know positively that until now no member state of the Alliance or the European Union has complained that any foreign aircraft has penetrated its airspace. [[applause from Members of the KSČM.]] I just don't know about that. I don't even know that any airline would complain about being threatened directly by an aeroplane. In other words, what happens in our media quite often can be regarded as a kind of smokescreen released by journalists in an attempt to dramatize the situation and relations between, say, Russia and today, the rest of Western civilization. I am deeply convinced that these are rumors and that they are very dangerous games that can only make the real situation worse. And if the Minister wants to tell us that if there's an airspace breach, it's a matter for the Defence Committee... Well, it certainly isn't. That's a whole different category. And we're getting into a completely different position. That would be a very serious conflict that we would have to deal with - certainly not on the ground of one committee. I am extremely appalled by where we are coming from with this debate that we are slowly moving from the House's original internal problem to a completely different place and are starting to address the current complex foreign policy situation. However, we are also prepared to hold this debate. If you have the will, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u55	I thank Mr Černý. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u56	Thank you for the floor. I'm listening to Mr. Černý here, and I'm going back to what he said a half hour ago. I feel like I'm throwing out a waiter in that movie The Heirloom with Bolek Soup. It's not like someone is representing and representing someone, and they're going somewhere, and now I'm going to call - where they're going, what they're going to do, who they're going to meet. That's supposed to be the other way around. Whoever is going somewhere to represent is supposed to come forward and specifically in relations with current Russia to say: there is an invitation, the invitation is sensitive, but I would still fly there, because I think it is reasonable for these and these reasons. And the sněmovna says it's not reasonable, you're not supposed to go. So I refuse to call on anyone now, what they do or don't do. He clearly shouldn't have gone there. If he flew there, he didn't fly there as a representative of this House. This is the resolution that Mr Kalousek has proposed quite rightly. I think we can take this vote slowly. And the other debates that are going on here, which I do not question, but Mr Koskuba certainly did not mean that, and you are already using it to divert attention somewhere to some planes that fly or do not fly here, feel free to do so in a moment, but let us return to the original resolution and express whether President Filip flew there... [[to Mr Black]] Vice-President. Actually, he's not the chairman... but the parties... He flew behind this House, or it's his private visit to Russia. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u57	First of all, I apologize to Mr Luzar and Mr Syblík for mistaking them. I'm sorry. Excuse me, gentlemen. Now with priority rights, Mr Černý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just want to say that if what Mr Blažek said a moment ago was true, we would be extremely happy. We would be extremely pleased if such a practice existed in the Czech Parliament, that we would always know what our representatives who fly abroad represent this country and, among other things. Even this House, they will speak there. Unfortunately, it's not yet. But if we come close to that after this discussion, we'll be glad. I assure you, we will support this by all ten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u59	I thank Mr Černý. Mr. President of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u60	So when somebody gets up here in flames and says that Sklenák and his colleagues are loading changes in the program every morning and changing what's expected, they're changing the program, so remember this discussion right here. Chairman Kalousek, when he suggested it, said it would be for 20 minutes. You see how this is going. And I think the debate, if we don't interrupt that point, has no end. So I dare to make a procedural motion to suspend this item by Friday. . [[Members of the TOP 09 are pounding on their tables, MEP Kalousek off the microphone, that it is unvoting.]] In the meantime, both the President of the House and Vice-President Filip's comments can be secured.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u61	I ask Prime Minister Sklenák to clarify - by Friday until when to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u62	By Friday, 9:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u63	By Friday, 9:00 in the morning. This is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on this procedural motion to interrupt this point in... Excuse me, I declare this vote misguided. There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on Mr Sklenák's procedural vote to interrupt this item by Friday 9 a.m. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 152, 145 Members and Members, for 61, against 79. The motion was not accepted. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] If no one else applies to the general debate, I am ending the general debate and starting a detailed debate in which I am registering the rapporteur's application. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already read the motion for a resolution in my introductory words, but it has been some time, so I will allow myself to read it in full detail in the debate. It is brief: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic does not agree with the foreign route of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip to Moscow at the invitation of Vice-President of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Sergej Železňak." So much for a motion for a resolution. I want to turn to Mrs Černochová, because she has made a proposal with the rapporteur that I believe her proposal is essentially unnecessary. If the Chamber of Deputies adopts this resolution, then, as rapporteur, I see it as my duty to contact the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, to pass on this resolution to them, to ask them, through our embassy, to inform the competent authorities in the Russian Federation by standard administrative procedure. As an old clerk, I'd be happy to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u65	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Černochová is reporting for the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u66	I thank the Chairman of the TOP 09 to Kalousek for his explanation and assurance. I do not have a problem with this procedure, and I therefore do not submit any supplementary proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u67	I thank you and the President of the TOP 09 and the starosta for absolving me of my task against the original proposal. Mr Černý is also reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u68	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a bit of a problem with this resolution, and as I announced in the introduction, given that we have not moved too much, I will do my best to try to obtain relevant information from both of the gentlemen concerned, but I need time for that. That is why we agreed and, on behalf of the KSČM MEP, I request a break until 13:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u69	I'm sorry, it's not gonna work until 1:00, because we have a solid 12.30 election. [[There will be no election!]] Okay, the election's off. There's a proposal for a break. I am therefore interrupting the House of Deputies meeting within 13 hours, when the lunch break will follow, so I am interrupting the House meeting until 14.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u70	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I wish you a good experience, I hope after a good lunch. Before we continue on this point, allow me to read the apologies from today's meeting. Mr Grospič announces that his foreign trip has been terminated prematurely; the Member is already present at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting today. Mr Klán also apologizes on Wednesday, 5 November, between 14.30 and Němeček for personal reasons, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová apologizes on today's day from 14.30 to the end for reasons of work, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises today from 12.30 to 16.00 for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Podivínský apologises today from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 14.30 and from tomorrow's meeting for reasons of work, Mr Daniel Korte apologises today between 13.30 and 15.30 for reasons of work, Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel apologises today from 16.00 for reasons of work, Mr Jan Volný apologises today from 14.30 for personal Tomáš, Minister StropnickýSvatopluk - that is no longer valid, Mr Lukáš Pleticha apologises today from 14.30 for Petr of Kudela, Mr Stanislav Berkovec apologises from 14.30 for reasons of work - meeting of the town Slaný, further apologies from 15.30 Mrs Marta Semelová for health Babiš, Mr. Those were the excuses from today's meeting. Let's keep going. We ended up in a detailed debate, which was interrupted at the request of the KSČM MEP, and I ask who else is reporting for the detailed debate. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. Mr Váňa reports for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u71	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a rather long debate on the problem of the Vice-President's foreign journey. I think that the long debate is more or less a clear view of the Chamber of Deputies, at least majority. At the Social Democracy Club, we have tried to formulate this opinion in a motion for a resolution that I would like to make in a moment. I suppose we can mostly agree that, although we do not yet have sufficient information on the way it is authorised to go, what the Vice-President of Moscow is discussing, the very fact that the journey is being made is contrary to what we are thinking here. The motion for a resolution is as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Vojtěch Filip, on his way to the Russian Federation, does not represent the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." I am filing this motion for a resolution as counter-proposal for the proposal already tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u72	Thank you. The rapporteur is also reporting to the debate in detail. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u73	Thank you. I'll ask for a written version of the petitioner. I see she's well-treated. As rapporteur, I will - it will depend on you - take the view that both proposals are not in conflict. If I disagree with any path, I also note that I do not represent the position of the institution that I am supposed to represent virtually there. So I think both proposals are voteable in a row. So much for the procedure. Now, please make a brief comment on my colleagues in social democracy. If they believe that this first resolution, that we do not agree, is not to be passed and that it should be passed through this resolution, then let me simply allow myself to translate it into Czech for people. If you refuse or refuse to agree to disagree, you will actually say we agree. We agree that he's going there, but at the same time we say that even though we agreed that he was going there, we insist that what he says doesn't say for us and that he doesn't represent us there. And he signed it to him by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and the costs are paid by the Chamber of Deputies, but he doesn't speak for us, he doesn't represent us there. Then the logical question is, if he doesn't represent us there and what he says doesn't say for us why the President of the Chamber of Deputies signed it and why the Chamber of Deputies is paying him as a business trip. Colleagues, you can feel how absurd this is. Mr. Zavadil, Mr. Koskuba, Mr. Votava, you who have been with me for more than ten years, do you really need to be ridiculed at your age and in your position? That's what you want to say to the public: we agree that Filip went there, but at the same time we stress that he doesn't speak for us. We're paying him, and our chairman signed it, but we had nothing to do with him. Is that really what you're saying? Do you really want to make fun of yourself like that? I think that if something right now, right now, and the moment is very excited, and I point out that not so nationally, I feel that we have more or less a common position here, the moment is very excited on the international stage. If we have any chance at all, be absolutely clear on the scene. And we'll be clear when we say "we don't agree with the way" and we say that what that person is saying at this point doesn't represent the Czech Republic. We'll say both. I am in favour of both of us adopting these resolutions. But the first one to refuse, and the second one to accept, it's a joke. Not even the folks in their 100 - year - old past have ever been able to achieve such obstinate perfection. Why do you want to compete with them now, social democracy colleagues? Let's try to be absolutely clear right now. Do we agree that this guy even went there? Yes or no? That is the answer to the first motion for a resolution. Does he speak for us? Yes or no? That is the answer to the resolution tabled by the colleague. I consider it to be voteable both of them, and I consider it important that they both pass.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u74	Thank you, rapporteur. I'll ask you about the procedure. Mr Váňa has now applied for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we can certainly talk about words, we can certainly talk about whether Vice-President Filip has already expressed an attitude that we do not have to agree with. I think that the rapporteur should not interpret the importance of our resolution, but he quite rightly interpreted the importance of the resolution he proposed. So there are undoubtedly several options: there will be no resolution, one of them will pass, or both of them will pass. I think we might be able to tell by the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u76	The rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u77	Just very briefly. We're in agreement. We don't want to delay. But there is no dispute over the attitude of Vice-President Filip. We all know that. We seniors have known for 30 years. We're not gonna change that attitude, and we're not gonna try. This is about the position of the Chamber of Deputies. The position was compromised by the President Hamáček by his signature, and we are now obliged, according to our best knowledge and conscience, to clearly define the position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u78	I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Chairman Mihola. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. After him, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u79	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to ask you, through President Kalousek, to stick to factual debate and save with constant innuendo. And in the event that they have already occurred, I would ask whether he meant the folk time at the time of his Presiding in KDU-ČSL, or which, if so, to clarify these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u80	I thank Prime Minister Mihol. With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u81	Through the President, please accept my apology, Mr President. My point was completely out of place given the importance of the present situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u82	Thank you. President Stanjura, duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u83	We heard as soon as the break was announced, about the efforts of the Social Democrats to soften the resolution. I don't know, we can either agree or disagree with that journey. Everything else is a mist that you want to conceal the responsibility of your President of the Chamber of Deputies. It is definitely not a resolution that replaces the original. It's very simple for us, and I think it's also for the public. Whoever will vote against the proposed resolution proposed by the rapporteur agrees to send the Vice-President of the House on that trip to Russia. The key in this resolution is, not where he went, but at the invitation of whom he went. And you just want to wall it up. You do not want to accept the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, he is the person against whom the Czech Republic applies sanctions. You want to get around this. Let's get this straight. I have no problem supporting your resolution. It's illogical, it's just that we're making one more decision today that it's Wednesday, just to be sure. But if we say we don't agree to the trip, then it's very clear that Mr. Filip is there as a private person. And when he's there as a private person, logically, he can't speak for the Chamber of Deputies. However, the weight of the function is just there. If he performs in the media somewhere, his constitutional function will definitely be listed there, including political affiliation or perhaps without. But the crucial mistake happened another time. It was not us who voted for Mr Filip as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. It was you from the government coalition. Remember what were the votes in those elections, who suggested whom, who offered the club this position to. If we do not vote for him there, he cannot be the head of the delegation, because according to our rules to countries outside Europe, the delegation must be headed by either the President or the Vice-President or Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. And I understand, of course, the party effort to protect my party colleague. Just don't tell us that this resolution replaces the resolution proposed by the rapporteur. It's completely different. And I have no choice but to quote the President of the Chamber of Deputies. He clearly signed up for it. I don't believe the expression on the servers today and in the press is somehow shifted. He himself said he signed it, that he didn't see any problem. And you said your club saw the problem. That's good. That's really good, without irony. And if we have the same opinion, we can prove it by voting. However, if you vote against it, you actually vote that you agree with it. To give you the opportunity to vote in favour, I will propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies approves the way of Vice-President Filip at the invitation of Vice-President of the Russian Duma. I say we vote no. One can also propose a resolution for which one will not vote. Let's be clear who's in favour and who's against it. For the sake of clarity, and then you can speak freely about this motion for a resolution. My colleagues and I will vote against this resolution, and I want you to vote on it, too, so that it is clear whether you are in favour or against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u84	I thank Mr Stanjur. Mr. Černý is reporting for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u85	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Of course, I cannot thank the President of the ODS for the proposal. We didn't even have the courage to suggest this to the House, but since it's on the table, we're very happy. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that the distribution of functions, i.e. leading positions in the House, took place after the elections and was mainly based on the results of the elections. Perhaps it would be a good idea if gentlemen from the right here and there remembered that although they are acting like the only real opposition, the KSČM MP club is more numerous than yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u86	I thank Mr Černý. With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u87	That's how we do the math. We respect the election results. But if you're the opposition, we have strong doubts about that, and we can look into the bottom of the vote. It's not important what anyone says about the microphone, or it's not as important as the results of the vote. I am therefore sorry that one of the Members is afraid and has no courage to propose a resolution. That's what we should avoid. I think that each of us has the right to propose what he wants, and we are free to decide whether or not to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u88	I thank Mr Stanjur. Mr. Černý, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u89	Again, I'm sorry, but I can't not respond to the previous remark. It is true that we cannot act as such the beautiful, readable opposition, as is going well with your two MPs, but it is primarily because the government coalition adopts laws here and there, or proposes the negotiation of laws that are not in sharp conflict with our program, which we cannot but support, and only this confirms our position that we apply in general in politics, that we do not care so much about who is putting forward what, but mainly about what it looks like, what it will do for the citizens of this country. Whether or not it will benefit them. That's why it happens here and there that we support the government coalition, even though we are not members of it. And so far, all I can do is congratulate the government coalition on how much it thrives so that it doesn't act like a middle-right, but rather like a center-left or a center-left. That's just the magic of why we don't set ourselves aside or define ourselves against government policy in a way that you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u90	I thank Mr Černý. With another factual remark, Mr Zavadil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, let me just make one comment through the President to my colleague Kalousek. Yes, of course we protect our chairman. There's nothing wrong with that. And we're protecting him mainly because he's not here, and yet it's fair that he's here to comment on some things. That's why. Period, that's all I've got.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u92	Thank you, Mr Zavadil. With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u93	Thank you for the floor. Mr Zavadil through the President, in fact, I can now say to my President, the last person who would not want to understand intra-party loyalty is me. I understand. But I beg you very much that we are aware of the priorities. At this moment, when Vojtěch Filip walks around Moscow with the mandate of the Chamber of Deputies, we protect not one or the official, but protect the prestige and reputation of the Czech Republic. [[♪ Laughing, applause in the hall ♪]] I, assuming that we can say that we do not agree that he accepted the invitation of a man who was being impelled by the European Union, am far from blaming Hamáček for how much he is or is not guilty. Please remember your priorities. We now defend the Czech Republic, its prestige and its reputation as a credible partner within the European Union. It's got to be some Hamáček, just like some Kalousek, total marginary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u94	I thank Mr Kalousek. With a factual remark, Vice-President Bartošek. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to separate these two things. At this point, the House must adopt a resolution and define itself against it, and then let the Organizing Committee discuss how the journey has been authorised, how much it has cost, or any other steps. At this point, the Chamber of Deputies is indeed responsible for adopting a resolution and defining itself against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u96	I thank the Vice-President. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Mr. Černý. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u97	I can't add yet that The Chamber of Deputies somehow presumes that Mr Filip walks in Moscow, and the way he walks, this is where he corrupts the good name of the Czech Republic. I don't think so, but I believe that this is the path that could lead, perhaps it could help a tiny bit to lead the Russian side out of isolation, for example. But most importantly, at this point, we're judging someone and something that none of us know. People aren't here, we're not able to hear what they're saying. Unfortunately, I also don't know what Minister Zaorálek is talking about in Jerusalem right now, but I also don't take too many illusions. I am quite nervous about this and I do not know if it is only and exclusively for the benefit of Czech citizens. I know that it is the practice, established and proven practice of some right-wing parties to resolve matters in the absence of those involved, you have a wealth of experience with Sarajevoian and similar assassinations, and we do not want to resort to such practices. We will wait for Mr Hamáček and Mr Filip to explain to us what led them to the non-standard steps they have taken, to shed light on what they have done, what they have done, what they have said there, and I feel that Mr Filip's visit to Russia in no way goes beyond the constraints defined by the European Union, or the United States, towards individuals on the Russian side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u98	I thank Mr Černý. With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u99	I am very sorry, but as rapporteur, I must stress to the Chamber of Deputies as a reflection of what my previous speaker said that both Mr Filip and Mr Hamáček had five weeks to explain. There is a serious discussion on this for five weeks, including written correspondence. If they didn't want to explain it to us in the last five weeks, and then they signed it under the dusk cover, and each of them flew somewhere, they probably knew what they were doing. All I'm saying is, no, we don't want to give them room to comment. They didn't want to express themselves for five weeks, then they did, and now Filip is walking around Moscow. And now it's up to us to say whether he goes there with our mandate or without our mandate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u100	I thank Mr Kalousek. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the debate in detail. I will ask the rapporteur because I have registered three motions for resolutions to propose a procedure for voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u101	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a procedure. Three amendments were made in total. My amendment was made: "The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the way of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip to Moscow at the invitation of Vice-President of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Sergej Železňak." Then a resolution was delivered by Mr Váňa: "The Chamber of Deputies states that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip does not represent the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on his visit to the Russian Federation." Finally, I am sorry for the adjective, the provocative resolution of President Stanjura: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the foreign route of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip to Moscow at the invitation of Vice-President of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Sergej Železňak." So I would like to propose the following procedure. He will respect logic and conflicting time. First of all, we would vote on Mr Stanjura's proposal. If accepted, the other two proposals are non-voting. If Mr Stanjura's proposal is not adopted, we would vote on Mr Váňa's proposal. Whether or not it is adopted, Mr Kalousek's proposal will also be put to the vote. That's the procedure I dare suggest. I suggest we vote in this order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u102	I'm asking if you agree or disagree with this procedure. Does anyone else have a draft procedure? If it does not, I will remove you all and put you to the vote on the proposal for a procedure, as presented by the rapporteur, Kalousek. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the draft procedure, as presented by the rapporteur, Kalousek. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 153; 133 Members and Members are registered, for 114, against 4. I'm of the opinion that the draft procedure has been accepted. I now ask the rapporteur to present a single motion for a resolution, which I will vote on immediately after his presentation, and I ask for peace in the House. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u103	Now, out of your will, we will first vote on the resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the foreign route of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip to Moscow at the invitation of Vice-President of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Sergej Železňak.' The rapporteur does not strongly, but strongly recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u104	I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 154, 133 Members and Members, for 22, against 82. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u105	We will now vote on the proposal by Mr Váňa, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies states that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip does not represent the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on his visit to the Russian Federation." The rapporteur agrees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u106	I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 155 vote, 134 Members and Members signed, for 99, against 14, the proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u107	For the last time, then, we will vote on my proposal, which reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the foreign route of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip to Moscow at the invitation of Vice-President of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Sergej Železňak.' The rapporteur strongly recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u108	I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 156, registered 132 Members, for 69, against 22, the proposal was adopted. [[applause from the right side of the courtroom]] [[Applause continues from the right side of the courtroom.]] I thank the rapporteur for the proposals tabled, thank you to the House for the resolution. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I consider this moment to be very important and, at an advanced age, enjoying the extraordinary moment that I am proud to be a member of the Chamber of Deputies. As rapporteur for the Chamber of Deputies, I am going to communicate with the State Department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-11-05-ps2013-019-09-001-143.u110	Thank you, Mr President, and I am done discussing this point. The next item is:
