ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u1	133. Information of the Prime Minister or his authorized member of the Government on the functioning of the state organizations of České dráhy and the Railway Infrastructure Administration in the Ice Calamity period. I ask that, under the authority of the Government, the Minister of Transport, Dan Ťok, take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 2 December, the Prime Minister was asked to submit information on the state of operation of state institutions at a time of calamity, in particular how they dealt with the situation of the Czech Railway. Since the Prime Minister cannot attend, allow me to provide the requested information personally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u3	I am so sorry, Minister. I would be very happy if you would, but I would ask the Chamber of Deputies for some peace. All those who are having fun here on topics other than the Minister lectures to leave this Chamber and not to take any illusions about this honorable institution to the Minister at his first appearance in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u4	I was just about to mention that this is my first appearance at the House and that I thank and look forward to working with him. To begin with, what hit us at the beginning of December was a climate calamity that has not actually happened in the last 40 years. What happened is that on 1 to 3 December the ice rain essentially created ice throughout the Czech Republic, and I would like to say here that it was very difficult to impress with standard methods and standard issues on the solution of this calamity. For illustration only: The onset of the calamity was so fast that from the time of the warning of the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute for Prague, which was in 16.07 on the first December, the operation on the line Lysá-Milovice occurred in the period of 33 seconds. For your information, the whole Republic froze in 100 minutes. I have here a picture of the Czech Republic. [[He's showing a sheet of paper.]] Basically, from Beroun to Ostrava in 100 minutes, all lines, all electrical lines, to be exact. To recapitulate itself, I would like to say that České dráhy was transporting trains until the infrastructure manager, which means SŽDC, declared the lines as non-mobile trains for electric trains. At that time, on 1 December at 16 o'clock, around 600 trains were in motion throughout the network and 120 trains were at the time of stopping. That means that in those 100 minutes there were 120 trains on the lines with 20,000 passengers, and in total about 100,000 people were hit by calamity. It's just to realize the extent of the calamity. Basically, when you're going through the floods, you can react gradually, because the water goes slow, this all happened within 100 minutes. As the Prime Minister stated in the oral interview on Thursday, 4 December, the efforts of the Czech Railways and SŽDC were primarily aimed at ensuring the quickest possible arrival of trains or the withdrawal of trains that stopped on a wide line, to the nearest stations, or the evacuation of passengers from these trains, with the knowledge that the first must be rescued by people on unheated trains, sets stuck in weak-signal areas, and also those trains where the possibility of water supply or refreshment was impaired due to their withdrawal. The disaster situation was solved in coordination of Railway and Transport Infrastructure Administration staff with individual carriers, in particular with the Czech Railways and the Fire Rescue Corps, the Railway and Transport Infrastructure Administration Corps. Accidental emergency and emergency services have been fulfilling their duties and tasks continuously, and I would like to say that ČD employees have prevented further emergency situations, especially by stopping in time for fallen trees and so on. On Mondays and Tuesdays 1 and 2 December, the weather conditions in the Czech Republic were such that it was not technically possible to determine in advance how long it would take. The individual lines were continuously driven through the assembly cars which examined the current situation and subsequently decisions were taken on the next procedure. It should be noted that the standard procedure for obtaining the information of the carrier works subsequently. First informs dispatcher dispatcher SŽDC, dispatcher SŽDC dispatcher Český dráhy and České dráhy train and train crew. České dráhy informed passengers immediately after receiving any more precise information from the operator of the railway SŽDC and passengers directly on trains were informed by a train crew. Information to the public also took place through websites, mobile internet, ČD applications My train and internal email messages and automatic SMS messages. The information centre was also strengthened, but I have information from České dráhy that the information lines were overloaded, there were up to 30 waiting on most lines, which basically prevented any normal communication. I would also like to say that the contact centre has been staffed up to ensure information. SŽDC together with the Czech Railways must take the necessary measures. I would like to say here that what happened on this calamity, and on this scale of calamity, is the fact that it was very difficult to communicate. To communicate because the Railway Infrastructure Administration and, in fact, carriers as operators should have a so-called Chinese wall between them, which allows competition between train operators, on the other hand, in such situations they must certainly start communicating much better. I would like to add further information by saying that Czech Railways had also contracted diesel locomotives, which actually tied individual trains from those lines. During the first three hours of České dráhy, together with SŽDC and with the rescue corps were able to download 82 trains from those 120 to stations and take care of passengers. Of course, given the scale of the situation, we were not entirely able to take care of all the passengers. And I think they could have informed the Czech Railways and SŽDC better, but we can talk about this further. What we've come up with is another problem, and those are the trees by the track. During the calamity, about 800 trees were cut down, 300 of which were fallen and the rest were cut down for preventive reasons. There may be a question as to why this has not been done in advance. Here again, I would refer to the discrepancy between the Environmental Protection Act and the possibility of cutting down these air raid trees in the railway protection zone. [[16.00 hours]] As regards the situation with regard to passenger compensation, passengers are, of course, entitled to return a full or partial ticket under the rules applicable in international and national transport, so this has been applied. In addition to the standard ČD fare refund, they offered a discount for the purchase of the next ticket of CZK 100, we will add 50 points to the In-karta passenger within the Czech Railways loyalty program. These compensations can be claimed in person at the ticket office or at the email address namraza@cd.cz until 16 December. They will be assessed individually as part of an extreme delay in the application. Thank you for your attention, and if there are any questions, I am ready to respond to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u5	I thank the Minister for his report. I am launching a general debate, in which Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS Membership Club, first signed up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u6	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I do not envy the Minister that this point is his first speech in the Chamber of Deputies, and I am aware that he has not been in office, so the critical words I will say will not say at the head of the Minister, but rather I will try to formulate some questions and some recommendations. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, who prepared your papers, but the report is too optimistic. I think the Chamber of Deputies understands that they couldn't ride trains, there's no dispute about that, it was a higher power, and we don't blame anyone, and it's understandable. However, it is strange e.g. that, for example, the third time, when private carriers that were so afraid of the Czech Railways were able to transport more trains from Prague to Ostrava than the national carrier. I don't understand. I'm talking about the third, I'm not talking about December 1st. I really don't understand. Unfortunately, České dráhy was telling trains when it was clear that the tracks were impassable. You were talking about 4:00, 100 minutes. In 17.36, as an example, the Pendolino left Prague to Ostrava to stay in the field, to receive the passengers completely misinformation, as it turned out. I'll just describe the story of the people on this train, and then I'll try to generalize it. So after a few hours, two, three, four, the information was: Now the train goes to Cologne, change, from Cologne to Prague, you will get back. Some passengers took advantage of the offers, arrived in Cologne and told them that they knew nothing about any train that would go to Prague and that there would be no going. So they waited, cold etc. I was really surprised by the gorgeous performance of the members of the Board of Directors of České dráhy, that ČD provided a cookie, that they provided tea, that water. They just didn't take good care of people. This is the key issue we are debating. I think even the access to a refund is incredible. Unbelievable! Maybe they'll give someone a hundred, give someone 50 premium points instead of automatically returning full fare to whoever asks them to do it. The Czech Railways receive 12 billion crowns a year from public budgets. I don't think a full refund of a fare to a person who didn't get there in time, whether by hours or days, is going to put them down economically. They're already saying: You were driving a Pendolino, so maybe we'll give you your seat back, but you finally used the fare. You didn't go for three hours, but maybe 18 hours, but what do you want? I find it really incredible from someone who draws 12 billion a year from public budgets. As badly as the passengers were on it were train crews that were unable to provide information because they didn't have it. I don't blame the people on the trains, but it feels like it was just like Vlasta Burian. The telex didn't work, so there's no information. But in the era of cell phones, it's great. I guess it didn't help the passengers on the train to post something on the Internet. How do you sign up for the Internet? I doubt it would work. Even in Cologne, a regiojet came from Brno and passengers boarded to tell them after half an hour: Go out, there could be bad air. Because it was warm on the train. So they couldn't even sit on the train and go back to the lobby. And instead of apologizing to the board and saying "nice clients, we really didn't make it," I hear about cookies, waters, how communication basically worked when a member of the board of directors, I'm sorry, I don't know which one, in Events, comments said, Well the train stood there for 17 hours, but that was actually for the good of the passengers, so we wouldn't jeopardize their safety. Can any of us imagine sitting on a train for 17 hours? In winter? I am not, and I am very glad that I was not among those passengers, that I was already in Prague because I normally drive regularly. So what we are criticizing is the approach of the Czech Railways, especially top management, because it is his business, not those people who have been trapped on trains as well as passengers, about the transfer of information. Inaccurate, misguided, misleading. Then, of course, passengers' nervousness, people's nervousness escalated. I don't blame those who made train crews for that. But to this day, I find the attitude... I have a motion for a resolution, which I will read in a detailed debate. We cannot do much, but the motion for a resolution is that the House is asking the government to ensure full compensation for clients of České dráhy who were affected by frost and ice between 1 and 3 December. That is what I think the government can do through the Steering Committee, even though it will theoretically bring about some economic loss, but it will certainly not be put to rest by the Czech Railways. A few questions. If the Minister doesn't know today, I don't mind, because I respect that he's in office for a while. So maybe he'll know if he doesn't, so I'd ask for a written answer completely fine. If there's a crisis plan and if they think it's been followed. And if they do, I think they need a revision, and when they're gonna be working on that revision to be done. Why didn't internal communications work? Those people at the train stations really didn't have anything to offer people, those passengers who were obviously nervous and uninformed. Why did trains leave? I really don't understand that after 5:30 a.m., a train will leave behind Prague, and that was the iceberg. It's awkward not to leave, it's unpleasant, but somehow in Prague you can arrange when you're at the station when the train doesn't go. It's much worse to end up somewhere in the field, without information, without refreshment, without heat. Again in the summer, it wouldn't be ice, would it, but it could be another disaster. And there's a situation easier for passengers. I'll read the resolution. My belief is that the Czech Railways did not make it, especially those who were supposed to be in charge, not those who spent hours together with clients. I have news again that the conductor was very tired, but very pleasant, and they managed to do their job. But if they don't have enough information in the cell phone era, it's hard to understand. I think that information on December 3 should lead the government to speed up the selection procedure on the fast track. I think it's a good thing that only helps český Railways. And speaking of electronic cashiers and shopping in e-shops, such maybe a little information for someone, but it's an incentive that the board of directors or supervisory board might be able to address again. Private carriers allow you to return your fare free of charge 15 minutes before departure. That is why many use these services. At České dráhy, when it happens to you, you must ask in writing and within 30 days you will get 25 percent. This is not a competition for clients in which the Czech Railways can win. At least they should be compared to the competition. And it is the right trend that the Czech Railways want tickets to be sold on the Internet as much as possible, so they will have fewer employees in cash registers. But if they do not provide this service, which is common with private carriers, each of us can verify it, then people simply will not use it, because the return fare is too low and too administratively demanding. It is not the main problem of the Czech Railways, we agree with the Minister, but I think the Czech Railways have failed to communicate with clients. And I say, I see guilt in top and middle management, I don't see it in the people who were there. Then I'll ask you for the resolution. Perhaps the Minister would have advocated this without a resolution, but I think all we can do is ask the state at the state firm to arrange for the full return of the fare to those who wanted it. Although they finally arrived the next day, but under what conditions and at what time. That's what I think is a solid state approach. I can't quantify it. If it was 100,000 people who were affected by this, I don't think I can estimate it, it is possible, but the Czech Railways can certainly take it economically. And they can create a better customer bond so that next time, those clients can travel through the national carrier again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u7	Thank you to President Stanjur. And since he was the first to speak, I would like to ask him, at the same time, to take up the role of rapporteur in the debate. Thank you. The Prime Minister nods enthusiastically. Yes, thank you. I also have two factual points. First of all, with the factual remark of Mr Michal Kučera, Mr Herbert Pavera, then Mr Fiala, with priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to point out that this item is called Information of the Prime Minister on the functioning of the Czech Railways and SŽDC in the Ice Calamity period. I don't see the Prime Minister here, I thought the first Vice-President of Babiš would come forward instead and maybe tell us something about the speed trains. Unfortunately, he's not here either. So it fell to the Minister of Transport, who was only in office for a few days, so he read us a report that was probably written and described the state of what had happened at that time. What happened at the time, we all know that. Either we've been there because we've been on that train or we've read it. And I think it's pretty detailed. The fact that there may be some calamity, natural conditions that prevent the train from traveling, we also know that. Obviously, the Czech Railways didn't make it, we agree on that in the overwhelming majority too. That is why I lacked what to do with the Transport Minister's report. We got a description of the situation, but not a single hint of what's going to happen next. Not the slightest hint of a measure, a suggestion. I didn't expect him to give us a complete solution here. Of course, it's still very soon for that. But there wasn't a single hint. It was merely a description of the situation, as I say, of the situation that we all experienced, or read about it in detail. So now the new Minister of Transport has read it to us again. I would expect him to come forward next time with a proposal for a measure to better manage the Czech Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I can only confirm the words of my previous speaker, Mr Stanjura, who spoke here about the fact that there was hardly any information at the railway stations, because I was constantly in contact with both the information centre and the dispatchers from Monday 1 December and they knew absolutely nothing at all. On Tuesday morning, I got up at 3:30 a.m. to make a phone call to Svinov, and they didn't know about any train at all. Gradually, I called at six o'clock, eight o'clock, ten o'clock, to see if there was a train going. They told me no. When I got there at one o'clock, they also left me that there was no train going, while some trains from Slovakia with a motorbike rode here on Wednesday morning, when they were unable to tell me that he rode out with a motorbike that I was able to catch, and maybe I was here with him before the late Šírava, which was a few hours late, and instead of a three-hour pendolino ride, I arrived in Prague in more than six hours on a train that wasn't even heated and there was no way to buy any drinks, nothing. I was very sorry to hear that. I agree that it wasn't the ordinary people who work at the stations, it was the decision-makers. That's where the order should be made. And it would certainly be good if České dráhy had a little better, faster machines in the event of such calamity than we drove to Prague at 70 km speed. I remembered the old times when we drove to Prague by motorbike and drove for more than five hours, so it was something similar, only now it was in winter and very unpleasant. Thank you for your attention and I believe that the Czech Railways are really successful, Pendolino is a successful machine, but I think that the information was inadequate, very disappointing all passengers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u11	Thank you, Mr Paver. Mr Birke, Mr Stanjura, followed by Mr Birke. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u12	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, I may just be clear, by your means, I apologise, Mr President, Mr Kučer, that point is called the Prime Minister's information, but in agreement with the appellant, Mr Stanjura, it was agreed that this item would be submitted by the newly appointed Minister of Transport. Just so we're clear, there's no need to kick the Prime Minister in his absence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u13	Thank you, Mr Birke. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u14	I volunteered for the same reason. The Prime Minister has a lot on his mind. A lot of critical words on my part and my colleagues deserve and receive from us. But in this case, when I suggested that point, I said either the prime minister or his authorized member of the government, because we knew there was going to be an appointment. The procedure is perfectly fine. In this case, I would stand up for the Prime Minister. But not in everyone else, they certainly deserve the criticism and only in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u15	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now with priority rights, Mr President of the Dawn Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u16	Thank you for the floor. My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, my government, I have no notes with me. I'm going to share my practical experience with you. On that day I wanted to catch the train from Olomouc to Prague on Monday at 5:00 p.m. Of course, there was no train. Olomouc Station was full of people and everyone asked why it wasn't going, what was the problem. And I can say that the information was very small. Anyway. The story isn't over. I went home, I thought I'd watch the Internet, that the Internet is a guarantee of awareness and that I'd go next day on Tuesday morning. You all know why, we have clubs, we need to be here. So I drove back home, and I watched the Internet, like, five o'clock in the morning. For some trains it was said that no connection was expected, however when I arrived in Olomouc at the main railway station, there were no trains. Olomouc Station was full of people, awareness zero. Finally, I got in my car and drove to Prague by car. It's probably the first time... We've always said how bad D1 is, how bad infrastructure we have. People basically said, "Don't take the car, take the train, D1 is standing, but the trains are going." That was the first time we could say, "D1 goes, trains stop." I have to say, it's not a complaint against the new Minister of Transport. It's just a rhetorical question for the Department of Transport to think about. I've informed myself, and I've tried to find a solution to how this situation can be dealt with. I know that there may be several hundred diesel-powered locomotives in the depots of the Czech Railways that could handle this calamity. But that's just like offering what's possible in this situation. And, of course, these options must be assessed by the Ministry of Transport. But now I ask, Minister, and that is a rhetorical question, I do not want to answer it, but I think it must not happen that the Czech Republic will freeze again for a few days and citizens simply cannot get into employment, home, stay on trains, and that we should expect such calamity, nota bene in a situation where the beginning of December and the whole winter is ahead of us. So the Minister and the Ministry of Transport should specifically tell us how to prepare for such a situation so that such a situation does not recur. We should prepare for this both in the area of information, communication with people, with citizens, and how to ensure this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u17	Thank you to Chairman Fial. And now the first duly registered member is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I do not envy the first role of the Minister of Transport - to answer something in the House that he unfortunately does not have proper information about. I could provide him with this information, because I was one of those who suffered the calamity of the entire Republic on Monday. I spent Monday afternoons and nights at the main station in Ostrava drawing information from all possible available sources to see if any train will go. I'm not complaining about the workers of the Czech Railways, the approach they had because they're innocent. They didn't have the information either. After five hours of waiting for me to go for information every hour, I found out that there wasn't even that information that there was something extraordinary about the railroad. They were trying to get information from public sources, from the media, but the information wasn't accessible to them either. When I asked if they were able to provide any information, they tried to call information lines, internal information lines, but these were also occupied, let alone the official information line, which is set up for passengers within the Czech Railways. When I tried calling, it was futile. And I repeat once again - in vain and again in vain, constantly occupied, i.e. no indication. The number is just one, so I don't know how many people were on it, how they were switching, etc. But, of course, it certainly didn't help the passengers to keep them occupied. The basis of the whole problem was information. I guess we agree on that. Or rather lack of information. Here, for example, I will point out the fact that private carriers reacted quite quickly and after about two hours of waiting for some passengers at the railway station, texting began to go that their trains had been cancelled. The Czech Railways were constantly on the light board only increasing delays, as if trains should be running. Private carriers responded. Some people have gone home. I was waiting to see what was going to happen and whether the train was going to go, because I thought that the Czech Railways probably had some connections that would go when they were just constantly increasing delays. So there's something wrong here. I also use smartphone applications within information about traffic status, delays, etc. No warning that trains won't go. Even when I gave up and the lady couldn't tell me at the register whether the trains were on or off because she didn't have the information, I ordered a ticket for the morning. He ordered and paid with an Internet application that, in theory, should have already had the information and be blocked with an apology that trains don't run. No, it was normal. I bought a ticket for the morning. When I arrived this morning, I found out that unfortunately trains don't run. So something didn't work. And what didn't work, in my opinion, has something to do with a much more serious problem. Because what we can discuss now and what we can think about can also seem smiling. Of course, not for those people who spent 20 hours on the train, but for the rest of us who didn't catch the wait on the frozen train, that can be smiling. What is not smiling is the principle of crisis management. Information traveled. Railway workers, train managers, operators were sending information, and somewhere the information, of course, ends during the flow of information. There's supposed to be a man who's gonna make a decision somewhere according to the right crisis plan. In my opinion, this man failed in this place. He didn't take the decision. He may have postponed it, evaluated it, but at some point he should have taken the decision to take responsibility for it. Take decisions in the context of crisis management. And I see from this point of view a great lesson - and now perhaps I would rather call on the absent Home Secretary to start doing and examining the crisis plan of the Czech railways. The railroad is always a strategic business. It's a really strategic business. If any - and I don't want to be the bearer of bad news - situation, and we have witnessed it, for example. in Spain, any attack by some groups on the railway, this natural disaster is a clear signal that the Czech Railways do not have well managed crisis management. I would strongly recommend that the Minister of the Interior carry out an in-depth inspection of the preparation of the crisis plans of these line carriers and, in general, those who may be the potential target of any problems associated with the hot situation today. This should be alarming, because of course - winter, it was freezing for two days, then the trains started and everything flows as it should. But let's remember what world we are in right now, and what everything on the basis of this fact, the failure of crisis management and crisis plan may occur in other situations. And here this is what makes me think - and here I would ask the Minister to carry out an in-depth analysis of what happened, especially in crisis management, now I don't mean the individual activities that were on that path, but in the context of crisis management, the preparation of crisis plans and, above all, the action in the context of crisis plans. Because here, in my opinion, the responsible have failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u19	I thank Mr Luzar. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that every matter is worth something. I flew to Seattle during my time in Microsoft, where once every 20 years, five centimeters of snow attack. It's a problem, it's a disaster, it's a city paralyzed, but it certainly doesn't buy dozens of plows and it doesn't build crisis management to make something like that. Of course, we can do this, but it's gonna cost a lot of money. The Internet is an all-powerful master, but it doesn't know when the wires will thaw. I'm bohužel so. The overloaded call centers in that situation just have to exist. They can be built into a large capacity, but it is not a matter of small costs. Crisis plans or reviving diesel locomotives, or even storing them somewhere to be usable in these situations, just cost huge money. And it needs to be said whether this country has what it takes to deal with it, or whether, unfortunately, the calamity that, fortunately, comes very rarely and is also linked to certain costs, and they are minimally opposed to building, maintaining, training people and training this system - is to consider whether it should build something like this, and, of course, to considering the Minister of Transport or the Minister of the Interior, whether he will put this in his budget, because the money will be very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u21	I thank Mr Pilný for his point of view. With another factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u22	I am more or less sympathetic to Mr Pilný's words. That's really true. That is why I would expect - and I was lacking in the speech of the Minister of Transport - some proposal for measures, i.e. I don't know what we're gonna do about it. I'm not saying diesel locomotives have to come back to life here. But the moment the Minister of Transport doesn't mention it, they start to mention it in their creative initiative to Members and start reviving diesel locomotives here. Of course, I didn't expect him to offer us a complete solution here, and again I regret that it fell on the head of the new minister. His first performance in the House is a rather difficult point where he gets behind his ears in quotation marks for something he didn't do. That's why I'd rather have the Prime Minister or the vice-premier perform here. The measures that should be mentioned here should really tell us whether we need to make crisis plans for a situation that is three days a year and would be so expensive that it would not pay off or that it is necessary to do so. This is what I would expect from the Minister of Transport, and I believe that in the future, I will say, in quotation marks, he will introduce us to crisis measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u23	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Josef Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u24	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. I would like to begin by thanking all the railwaymen who actually did everything they could at the time. Because there really are a lot of good honest people on the railroad trying to do their best. I would like to thank them from this place. First of all. Two. Yes, there was an unexpected situation that the Czech Railways were not prepared for, and there is a need to learn from it not, but really to prepare a system solution. At this point I remembered the floods in 2002 here in Prague, when 18 stations were flooded, the damage was 7 billion, and then there were about three years of big discussion about who caused it, if Igor Němec as mayor of the city back then. It was like a ping-pong, and after three years it ended, it went away. But it did not go away from the point of view of who was guilty, but it was a lesson that systemic steps were taken that nowadays make sure that such a situation cannot be repeated. And I assume that both the new Minister of Transport and the new Director of the Czech Railways will learn from this and prepare a system solution that will satisfy both Members and our public in particular. [[16.30 hours]] In this context, I also followed the situation when they were blackout. If you recall, the biggest blackout was in the United States in 2003, where it hit 50 million, and I am not aware that American Congress would handle it. He dealt with it only in a situation where the Energy Authority prepared a comprehensive analysis of what had happened and then introduced Congress, who accepted this report. I suppose this procedure should have the House, that is to give space to the český Railways to really take comprehensive measures and introduce us to that and then we said that it was okay or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u25	I thank Mr Hájek. First of all, with a point of fact which takes precedence over the priority right, Mr Leo Luzar, after which the Minister has priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u26	Thank you, Mr President. By means of you to colleagues who have spoken about the cost of crisis management. Yes, it costs money, but if crisis management works as it should, much more damage to life can be avoided. And that's something you always need to realize. After 9/11, even in America, they understood that the power was vulnerable and that crisis management worked and said something. I wouldn't want it to end up on whether the Czech Railways should have diesel locomotives or not. I don't think that's what this is about. But the weakness of crisis management has been revealed by one of the serious carriers that affects transport and the economy in this country. Crisis management in the field of at least information has failed absolutely. We are witnesses here, and today there has been a discussion, in the last 14 days there is a discussion about the ammunition warehouse, where the information blockade has also played a big role, or if you want a lack of information that would calm people down or allow them to react. This is the second case in a short time when information in the 21st century information society did not work as it should. Someone should really focus on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u27	I thank Mr Luzar. Now with priority rights, Minister Ťok. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u28	Let me respond to some of the things that have been said here. I originally intended to get off to the end, however, I have a few comments and I would like to respond to some things now. One. I'd like to say one thing for starters. I'm not standing here defending that the Czech Railways and SŽDC did everything right. I've already said at the first performances that I'm not happy with some of the steps, and at one of the first performances, I apologized to all the passengers because I think they could have worked better. On the other hand, I think we need to distinguish between two concepts. One thing is crisis communication and one thing is crisis plans and how they were implemented. From the point of view of the crisis plans both České dráhy and ŠŽDC have their crisis plans and the fact that they have managed to cope with the calamity shows that they have worked quite well. The second issue is that the communication of the Czech Railways and I would say that most state companies are not entirely ideal and need to be worked on. I'd just like to respond to some things, and then I'll get back to the idea. Reporting trains at a time when from today's point of view it was clear that it would work, is a system that works today so that the route manager, which is SŽDC, says and closes individual lines. If the track is closed, the operator, which are České dráhy, cannot afford not to send a train because he thinks the track will be passable. At this point, I am informed that there were doubts as to whether the Pendolino would arrive, but unfortunately SŽDC did not work quickly enough and did not instruct it not to go. As far as the refund is concerned, I agree. I have in my background that the Czech Railways return fare or part of the fare. We should be more flexible and we should work better. As far as the tendering procedures are concerned, as has been said here, of course, the selection procedures will continue and I am claiming that, as the government has set up a plan to liberalise the railway, it should work. As regards the draft measure. Maybe I didn't mention it enough to start here, I expected to talk more about it in my final summary, but we're not satisfied with the situation and what happened. I certainly don't. I already had a debate with the Czech Railways and I will continue with SŽDC. We need to process a draft crisis communication that responds to the situation. It probably doesn't help to prepare for such a crisis. First, for the sake of money, but second, realize that this is a network sector. What happened to us in one dorm or two tracks was behind several sets. If we had twice or three times as many diesel locomotives, the trains had to push off one by one, and it wouldn't help anyway. We need to be a good caretaker, and we won't invest where things won't help. Me for myself, and it has already been said here by some of you, I think the workers of the Czech Railways have done a great deal of work. They prevented even more damage and were able to calm people down. The problem is in communication between SŽDC and Czech Railways and in the habit of communicating. SŽDC was giving information that more information would come in two hours, something would come in another hour. I missed communication type: passengers, you're on a train where it's warm, where you have light. It's really a disaster out there. It's safe for you to stay here. The Hydrometeorological Institute doesn't say that the weather could improve for another ten, twelve hours, please be prepared to be here on the train is currently the safest for you. Unfortunately, no one communicated in this way. I think it's unfair to passengers and unfair to everyone. It's just a gag. I drove from Prague to Bratislava on Friday and back from Bratislava to Prague on Sunday. The average delay without calamity was about 40 minutes. It is not a long route and the way we communicated as České dráhy, I take it upon myself, was: the delay is 40 minutes, I apologize to you. Nothing more, nothing less. I don't think it's possible that we need to work on this. So I would like to assure all of you that the Ministry as the founder and as the organization that controls the Czech Railways and SŽDC will, of course, be very careful to do everything to ensure that crisis plans and, above all, emergency communications between these two entities work as best as possible. On the other hand, I must point out that we still have to follow the principle that if the Czech Railways are carriers and the SŽDC is the network manager, it must be equivalent to communication to all carriers, not only to the Czech Railways, so we will have to take over other entities and we must be careful how much to manage these two entities, because I would like to point out that we do not have a unitary rail, we already have a partially liberalised rail, and we are going towards the whole liberalisation. So I just want to say that I take the comments seriously, and the steps that are being proposed here are basically about to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u29	Good afternoon. Thank you, Minister of Transport. Before the duly registered Miroslav Opálka with a factual remark, President Stanjura. And...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u30	I thought I'd find--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u31	Mr. Colleague, I'll give you my word right away. I'm just asking my colleague Benešík whether it's factual or.... Really, okay. [[Real]] Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u32	I believed that there would be a topic in the debate where I could criticize the Prime Minister. It's the competitions mentioned. Mr. Minister, the government has postponed it to start in autumn, or with the schedule 2018/2019. I'm asking you, and it's about time. Ostrava - Opava - Krnov - Olomouc were originally to be driven by the winners of the competition in December 2014. I made the decision, because for formal reasons, the tender was canceled, and we're gonna get it out of hand. My successor just canceled. Since then, both Minister Žák and Minister Prachař have always had the government consecrated another delay. So there's a plan, but it's just somewhere in four years, and it just feels like the pace is really slow. Thank you for the explanation, but here the chairman of the Radim Fiala Dawn Club said that trains were no longer in Olomouc at five o'clock, and a train was dispatched from Prague to Ostrava by 5:30 p.m. And I think I understand what the problem is -- she's not even understood in those numbers as one. So probably at 5:30 p.m., there was a mobile Prague - Cologne, but even if it went to Olomouc, it wouldn't get any further. That train just can't go! And then it's SŽDC's fault! I think everyone needs to be measured just as harshly. Just when trains were no longer in Olomouc, there were trains from Prague to Ostrava. And how would they get there? Maybe they'd come to Olomouc, maybe... and that's exactly what happened. And that's the problem. And I'm telling you, when they didn't leave, they had a problem, but it's better than staying on those trains. I didn't call for any new investments, buy new machines. In my view, in the crisis, it turned out to me that one of the executives can handle the crisis and give instructions and communicate with passengers and who can't. We don't need any $100 million investment for that. I'm not calling for ten diesel locomotives to be set up at every station on the dorm, that makes no sense. But some specific people have failed to communicate, and the key point of the problem is the passengers. We agree they didn't have good information. And we agree that it's not the people on the trains and the train operators. We all agree on that. This should be the subject of debate and recommendations and, where appropriate, resolutions. I believe we will support the full compensation of our clients. I think that's the only meaningful thing the House can do to the government today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u33	I thank my colleague Stanjur and my colleague Benešík will wait because the electronic application takes precedence, so my colleague Kasal with a factual remark as well, but with an electronic application. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would just briefly comment on this as regards the extremeness of the situation. I didn't take the train that day, so I guess I had the advantage. However, I would just like to say that between the trip from Pardubice to Prague, when I was driving, my car froze so, even the windshield and the mirrors were over an inch of ice, that when I arrived here in the parking lot, there was absolutely nothing to know here in Prague, so the car was completely frozen, as when I arrived from Siberia. All I'm saying is that, of course, awareness is important, and there was definitely a mistake. But I really want to draw attention to the extremeness of the situation where the freezing was very rapid and in some phases even the hydrometeorological institute was not able to keep up. Even though I heard that it was frozen in Olomouc, it was already here to Prague on the way, and it was not yet given by the media. Then it's just to explain the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u35	I thank my colleague, Kasal, for keeping time on the point of fact. My colleague Benešík with a point of order. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u36	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say that I did not take the train that day. I don't take the train to work in Prague because the track hasn't arrived yet. We've been talking about the fact that wires freeze once every 40 years, and it's a problem. That's right. I'm not downplaying the problem. I believe that the new progressive minister will learn from the situation and that he will take measures to prevent such situations as far as possible. I would just like to mention one thing in this context. There are thousands of drivers, and unfortunately I also belong to them, who cannot take the train to Prague and from Prague for the reasons already mentioned. He drives a car. And on D1 we experience similar disasters almost daily.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u37	I thank my colleague Benešík. Now a factual comment by Mr Birke and then a proper application by Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u38	Thank you, Mr President, I will be very short. But as I listen to the stories of individual Members from the regions, let me really tell one story. I have to say, really, and now I'm talking like the mayor, it really froze in 25 minutes. The paradox is that it froze not in the whole Czech Republic, because 10 kilometers from my city was nothing, it was dry. I just want to say one important thing. First of all, the mayors were able to do it, except for the railroadmen, because they certainly had information as the first hydrometeorological institute. But what's important is that the Minister doesn't feel like he's really getting behind his ears here for something he didn't do, but that's not at all understood, so I mean, this time if from my point of view at least, the travelers made it. The problem is that we have so many trucks on the roads that the trucks didn't let the traveler go so that they could salt the communications of the first and international classes. Thank you. And the last thing I want to say, we even had to close the Schengen border. So just to draw up the situation that is, it was a transition to Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u39	I thank my colleague Birke for his point of view and now, with proper application, Mr Miroslav Opálka. A colleague of Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, in this parliamentary term, making a proper application for a general debate is almost like taking a train 1. 12. Such overuse of preferential rights and factual remarks, which is unserious to colleagues who are waiting in line, I think there is also a certain calamity in this Chamber of Deputies. Get to the point. I spend two trips a week twice four hours, that's eight hours on the train. That's 32 hours in a month, and I don't count delays and lost connections. During that time I had experienced only asco, but this time the trip from 1st to 2nd December took me 26 hours from Opava to Prague. Let me mention what was going on with her, because she's going to draw up what was said here. It's not about the weather, it's not about the technique, it's about crisis information dispatch. He doesn't exist. He's not, and if he is, that man shouldn't be sitting there today. You know, in 1997 I experienced a great flood in Opava. The mess that came about, and I think a colleague of mine, Klučka, who then tried to deal with it in a crisis in the Magistrate, at least led to the creation of an Integrated Rescue System. Five years later in 2002 in Prague it turned out that it didn't work that much, but still only the information from weather stations to municipalities, regions and ministries worked in some way. And I think this is exactly the moment when the Ministry of Transport, because who else should consider how the Railway Infrastructure Administration of České dráhy with meteorological stations and other institutions involved will create some crisis information dispatch that will know what to do with the information that will be associated with it in a short time, because then what happened to me could not happen. I usually take the Kysuca train on Sundays or Mondays. Back in the day, he was a speedster, now they've turned it into a "A" and nothing's changed, except they took out a first-class car and turned it into a first-class buffet squad. I wish you'd had four hours to go when you couldn't throw your foot over your foot because there are tables to eat and not to sit there for four hours. But I guess that's not the point of what I'm saying. [[16.50 hours]] So I left Opava on 13.46, 14.27 with a slight delay, I moved to Kysuc in Svinov, and it stopped us at the border because there was a tractor accident at the crossing. Maybe a fatal mistake. If it hadn't happened, maybe we'd still be passing through. We waited there for less than an hour, then we moved in front of Brodek at Přerov, which is just a little bit, and that's where the calamity stopped us. Before we knew what was going on, the train manager came and turned off the heater, because we were no longer connected to the current, reduced the lighting to 50 percent for a while, which after some time completely went out, and the lights were on, and the toilet closed, because simply when the current isn't, it doesn't work. The guys still had a chance to get out, but they were dragging winter into an unheated wagon, but it was worse with women. We waited there for over an hour, then a diesel came and dragged us to the platform in Olomouc. Everything's fine from there. But the disaster occurred at the station. We were on that cold, unlit train with locked toilets waiting almost within 23 hours for information that we weren't going any further, and we arrived there at about 18 o'clock, and that we should be looking for a hotel. Meanwhile, I missed the train at 19.07, with which I could travel back to Opava via Bruntál and Krnov, because it is diesel, and the information situation was that those sitting in the car had already seen on the notebooks that the train doesn't exist in the system at all, and when I blamed the train manager, he said to me: I can't give more instructions to leave the wagons that we're not continuing unless I get this command from upstairs. So for five hours, we've been waiting for a supposedly changing locomotive that we can't go with. We froze in the car, and on the other side of the penna there was a competitive device where the coffee was lit, where the coffee was served. They didn't even give us water. I had no choice but to find the last place in the waiting room after 11 o'clock, and there I have to say that they took good care of us, we got a blanket, we got tea, we got water, and in the morning at 7.07 we traveled through Bruntál to Krnov, to Opava, and then thanks to our colleague we rode by train. So on Monday at 1:00 p.m., I left the house, Tuesday at 3:00 p.m., I entered the Chamber of Deputies. Budínská anabáze Opava-Svinov-Olomouc-Bruntál-Krnov-Opava 20 hours, Opava-Prague 26 hours. When I asked the train manager to get confirmation of the delay, he told me he had to go through all the wagons first. Then I saw him sew on a pen, so I went to see him, and he told me what I wanted, I'm only gonna get a hundred! I don't care about the hundred. I was talking about those people who were in the same situation as me. So we can praise some of the employees at the Olomouc station, but not all the train crews behaved responsibly, and maybe they were stressed just as much as we were, because their information was incomplete. Conclusion. The lesson should be to really eliminate losses that occurred not by weather and technology, but by a non-functioning crisis information system. Dispatch is a task that the Ministry should provide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u41	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek. The words will be taken by Ludvík Hovorka and prepared by Mr. Václav Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear government, dear colleagues, I would like to say that, indeed, in the context of the situation that has arisen, this means extreme adverse climatic conditions, certainly no one can, but the common denominator of the crisis situation on the track was ignorance, there was no connection, there was no command, there was no crisis management, there was no alternative means of transport. I found that the Czech Railways basically have ten functional diesel locomotives for the whole republic for long-distance transport. I think that if someone is lavished with the name of a national carrier, then they must have functional crisis scenarios and also have alternative means to provide transportation in emergency situations, and this may not be just frost, it can be a large blackout of electricity, tearing up trolleys to a larger extent, etc. It is also not possible to run trains on a busy track and a clogged track if the situation is catastrophic. I had the experience of traveling from Hungary Hradiště to Prague for 19 hours. The fact that something was wrong, I found out when I wanted to buy a place for a Pendolino and in Uherské Hradiště, the lady just said with a smile that she wouldn't sell it to me, that we probably wouldn't make it to my Pendolino. We stood in Slavokovice for about an hour, and then we were taken somewhere before Přerov. We stayed there, the train stopped drowning at ten o'clock, and the conductor tried, walked every hour, and said he thought we'd be on our way in an hour. Then he announced that they would probably drag us back to Hulín to heat us up, but eventually a diesel locomotive arrived and drove us to Přerov at 2:30 a.m. They told us that we could take a cab to Olomouc, so we ran over to Olomouc in a taxi and we waited there, because no one was able to tell when he was going. No one knew exactly when he was going. In the case of trains that appeared, information came up: not going, not going, cancelled and roughly, I don't know, a thousand and maybe more people were waiting for what was going to happen. The first train to leave Olomouc, respectively. Before somewhere from Bohumín, the IC train was 540 Hutník with an hourly delay, which then finally took us to Prague at 12 o'clock on the second day. I really don't think the senior staff were to blame, but they didn't have information. Even when I asked for some information about the hutník, they said to me: He will not go all the way to Prague anyway, because behind Zábřem certainly fall trees and he will not get any further. The train went all the way to Prague. People on the counters were on the phone to dispatch, but of course they couldn't reach the dispatcher because one dispatcher in Přerov couldn't reach all the phones that were pointing at him. So here I see the way to remedy, which means ensuring high-quality crisis management and, of course, securing the means, and I am serious about that, because the Czech Railways have been rid of a large number of diesel locomotives in the past. I admit that it is probably non-economic to provide diesel locomotives for the whole Republic, but I think that Czech Railways as a parent company has contracts with ČD Cargo etc. and must be able to provide replacement transport, replacement traction in the foreseeable future. And here I think that this is a task for the Ministry of Transport, which is why I have also prepared a motion for a resolution on this point, which has three parts. It's: The Chamber of Deputies asks the government of the Czech Republic to deposit the Czech Railways, joint stock companies, through the Management Committee of the Czech Railways: 1. ensure a sufficient number of diesel locomotives to ensure emergency operation of long-distance transport for EC, IC, express and express trains under adverse climatic conditions and large-scale power outages; [[17,00 hours]] 2. check the readiness of České dráhy, a. s., to ensure operation in emergency situations and adverse climatic conditions; 3. ensure operation of crisis staff and adequate crisis voice centre in emergency situations to ensure information of customers and especially staff of České dráhy, a.s. In this context, allow me to make one more motion for a resolution, which is also related to how the management of the Czech Railways behaved, not the ordinary employees, because most of them did not bear the blame: At the same time, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to reconsider the adequacy of the remuneration of the top management of ČD, a. s., following the achieved results of ČD, a. s., in passenger and freight transport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u43	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will sign up because he is entered into a detailed debate on this motion for a resolution. Now, with the de facto remark of Mr Chalupa, then Mr Klučka will continue. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u44	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, but I think there's been a lot of stories about who's been on the train, and each of us has some experience. Let's get back to what we're discussing. If you have motions for a resolution, we may not have a problem with that, but time is running out here for nothing. We're spending time here. We're supposed to discuss, we're supposed to get to other serious points. Please, no more stories about how you traveled by train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u45	I thank my colleague Chalupa, but there are few who can accommodate him, because, of course, anyone who speaks on the subject, I can hardly take his word if he is speaking on the situation which is the subject of the Chamber of Deputies. Now, then, Mr Klučka, a colleague of mine, will be prepared by Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u46	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Through you, tell colleague Chalupa I'll please him. It won't be the story of how I traveled by train, because I actually arrived at Prague at quarter to five by Pendolin, and I didn't have the problem that the rest of you had. Every time someone proposes this item to the Chamber of Deputies, when the very current situation around the crisis is to be discussed, for example, on the railways, as we call it today, or perhaps we will still have negotiations on ammunition warehouses this week, I am a little threatened by what information source we are coming from, what we know about the situation, how much we are able to objectively assess the phenomena associated with this situation. I'm biased. I graduated from crisis planning. I'm biased. Maybe I understand a little bit more than some of the others. I dare say that crisis planning exists on the Czech Railways, that individual situations are being handled. But I also know today that the practical experience of ice-calamity shows that this area doesn't work the way it may have been planned to carry huge risks. I'm referring to the risks from the ice-calamity. This does not mean that there are risks to the health, lives and property of citizens, which is one of the basic criteria that plays a very important role in the crisis plan. And if we include in the entire crisis plan the entire part of the integrated rescue system. I don't know how elaborate it was or wasn't an elaborate calamity of this type, but I can tell you quite clearly today that the tracks and our entire company have experienced a small blackout live. That's when the power went, but it stayed standing. A hundred thousand people, or as it is estimated, have gotten into a situation that is not normal, into some uncertainty. They didn't know what else to plan. We admitted here that communications didn't work. This is not, please, a special area of crisis planning - communication. That's part of the crisis management. I don't know if the crisis crew on the Czech Railways acted collectively to solve this problem. If there is anything that brings together the Railway and Railway Administration and brings together the Czech Railways together in a subject. I don't know, and that's why I don't want to evaluate anything at the moment whether or not it's been done correctly. What we have heard here today, and that, in turn, through the President for the Minister, is valuable knowledge, experience of how the direct participants have experienced it, how they have experienced it on themselves. I would only ask that a future view, which should correct the situation and deal with the fact that it can occur in the whole area of railway roads in the Czech Republic, which will mean, for example, that we will set up evacuation centres, that we will simply need an integrated rescue component, so that we can get these people into objects from which they can gradually get to their homes when the runway doesn't work anymore. And that blackout, that's a terrible thing. I'm not gonna bother you with this today, but it's processed every hour, even minutes, to know what's gonna stop working. The only thing that stopped working here is the right, but that's where everything stops working, for example, including cell phones. These situations need to be worked out in this crisis planning. And I would ask, in general, that all those who do in this area do so honestly and professionally that citizens really feel the protection in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u47	Thank you, Mr Václav Klučka. The last duly applied for is Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u48	Good evening, Mr President, colleagues. Thank you. Now one of my fellow Members has asked if I have long - so I will answer him and you that I do not. And I'll be very brief, I'll lighten it up a bit. I'm gonna ask you to be really brief. Now we've learned from almost half of the House who's ever traveled by train and what happened to him. With all due respect, colleagues, I understand and understand this, but I want to defend myself as the Minister, who is here in his new position for the first time, also the Czech Railways. The situation was really extraordinary, extreme, unexpected. And what I can agree with is that there are some difficulties in communicating, as has already been said, I will actually repeat myself, between SŽDC and the very carrier. I just want to say, my fellow economic committee and I have been on two study trips this year just to railroads and public transport, once in Switzerland, once in Spain, and this really is a model that has the ambition to be our goal to get close to him one day. In both of these countries they have central dispatch, where they are able to manage virtually their entire country, the whole republic at a distance, from one room, which has the size of a quarter of this hall, they immediately have an overview of everything. I know a lot of you are interested in traffic, but I'm sure you're not experts up to detail. In those Western countries, they use technologies such as so-called. GSM-A, i.e. GSM for rail, where each driver is in immediate direct contact with the dispatcher. These are things that we are still talking about today, but have not yet happened in the Czech Republic, or are being realized only in some experimental way on corridors and not on other lines. So I want to assure you, for the coalition, for the government MPs, for the ANO movement that we know about these things. We want to do these things ambitiously, we want to do them. According to some political key, we are also in the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, whether on the Committee or on the Supervisory Board. And I want to make a public offer here to the Minister that we will be watching these things in SFDI funding and we will put pressure on communication, the technology has been installed as quickly as possible so that the Railway Infrastructure Manager can use them. At the end of my performance I am certainly not aiming for the Czech Railways, but for the SŽDC and the communication, which is definitely toady and sometimes cumbersome, and we have a dramatic improvement here. I believe that this will be the topic for the Steering Committee, with which the Minister will certainly deal, but I would like to ask you and warn you about adopting a resolution in the sense of the regulation on the acquisition of diesel locomotives. Believe me, that's really not the way. The Czech Railways can't have diesel locomotives with full tanks in their quotation marks somewhere in the Czech Republic, if there is no icing again somewhere. That's just not the way, and it would be a completely nonsense measure. And that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u49	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. I have three factual points ahead of me. The first factual point is that of Mr Laudát, Mr Adamec and colleague Hovorka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u50	Thank you. When something about the fund fell down here, Mr. Secretary, keep an eye on them, they've made it so far that they weren't even able to settle for them, and the economic committee has been handling something for them, which is not a precedent here... and it's beaten up by the opposition, I think it's convenient for somebody that we're not there. First of all. Two. It's true what Mr. colleague Klučka said here. The government, I'm gonna be a little sharper, I don't think he's working too hard on the crisis scenarios yet. Material I don't know who committed, crisis management, critical infrastructure, so it's bullshit, or at least the version I've seen. I hope they may have something more sophisticated, secretive. And I think if there was anything in that unofficial work version that was totally missing, it was the transport networks. Those were very miserably specified there. There it was reduced to some mysterious food for me, something about energy, something very little, but apparently it was done by people who don't know how life works at all. And larger, for example, urban agglomerations. So maybe there's a key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u51	I thank Mr Laudát. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to some colleagues for volunteering. I will not travel in Bohemia or in calamity, but in Switzerland. I was provoked by my colleague, Kolovratník, when he was comparing something incomparable here, because by coincidence, you know, if we want to be like Switzerland, we have to say it 100%. In that case, we must not be in the European Union, because there the track, the tracks are managed a little differently. There's just no separation from the carriers. There's only one carrier in the dorm. And I think that we need to say this honestly, and if we are to have a role model, we need to realize that we are in that European Union, and we will never have a railroad like Switzerland. Not to mention other things, such as their conditions for the railroad, which are significantly better than for car transport due to Switzerland's geomorphology. So I'd like to say exactly that, because it's actually a little different there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u53	I thank Mr Adamc. The words will be taken by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, and will also be prepared for a factual remark by Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u54	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would also like to say to my colleague, Mr Kolovratník, that in this motion for a resolution there is a sufficient number of locomotives, and that does not have to be so that the locomotives must be ready, started at the depots. There are contractual relations between the Czech Railways mother and, for example, the Czech Railways Carg. I also said that the Czech Railways had a large number of diesel locomotives and they sold relatively low price to other carriers who normally carry diesel locomotives under electric traction. And I said this in the context that if someone is wielding the name of a national carrier, then they should be able to operate even in such a crisis situation. I think that crisis situations have previously been processed quite comprehensively and extensively and there is no reason for them not to be processed at the moment. This means that there may be a large blackout, a similar situation may occur repeatedly when warmer winters occur, and therefore there should be a way to transport passengers across the Republic. And not just ours, but those who travel internationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u55	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. So far, the last point in fact is that of Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u56	I am very sorry, and I do not want to delay political bickering, but Mr President's medium for fellow Adamec. We have also been to Spain, and Spain is in the European Union, separate as we do, and it works. So maybe Spain is the role model. And the last sip. We were even there for our own money, because the organizing committee blocked this trip for us, but that's already a footnote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u57	We wished you, some, the trip to Switzerland, because I think it was important, but the Organizing Committee is a collective body and, of course, its decision-making is right. We have now exhausted the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the Minister's final word after the general debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u58	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to assure you that I take this debate seriously. I think there's a lot of interesting stuff going on here. For us, what has been said here is a lesson. We really need to look at the crisis plans and, more importantly, crisis communication. I'm sure we will. And most importantly, I would like to assure you, it will make a national carrier a company that will see the customer in the first place and treat him accordingly, which we do not always see, and we have certainly dozens, maybe hundreds of examples. I would still like to say to Mr Stanjur that I will certainly not slow down, and I will not make proposals to delay liberalisation, and I will see if we can speed this up. As for the number of locomotives and other things, I do not know if this is really part of the resolution, but we are dealing with that number. I just want maybe two notes. The Czech Railways got rid of a lot of diesel locomotives, but I would like to point out that they could not carry the same passenger cars, so there is a difference. And I would also like to point out that the Czech Railways really had about ten emergency locomotives prepared, they all worked and worked quite reliably. I hope that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u59	Thank you, Minister. I am opening up a detailed debate and reporting to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura as rapporteur for this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u60	I merely refer formally to the motion for a resolution, which I mentioned in the general debate. Then after the end of the detailed debate, I will repeat it here. I just want to ask Mr President, Vice-President, if the rapporteur has the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u61	Of course, after a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u62	Thank you. That's good enough for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u63	Now in a detailed debate, Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u64	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I just want to refer to the text of the amendments that I tabled in the general debate. I hereby apply to them, and I want them to be voted on individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u65	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. I'm asking who else to discuss in detail. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Not the Minister anymore. The rapporteur does. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u66	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I did not expect such a long debate, but I do have a request. Sometimes it happens to us that we turn a serious problem into a cartoon. So I would ask my fellow Members, to whom the debate seemed long, not to say that we were talking about how they went to Prague. That was not why I designed the point, and that was not why most of the House, the vast majority of the House, complied with my proposal. That was why tens of thousands of passengers remained either on trains or at the railway station. The fact that it's a cartoon that described the club's path, that would make me very sorry, it wouldn't be fair, and then the point would be completely useless if this was the message from this point. And I get along very well with my colleague Kolovratník, but I must say, there is no need to protect the Minister, because it is not a criticism of the Minister. No need. Then the political proclamations were kind of a pre-election passcode, how the YES movement will make order there, and I mean, you're almost a step ahead, so maybe it could be a result by now that you're pulling politics into it. I didn't want to bring politics into this. And I want to remind the rapporteur that we have a total of five motions for resolutions. The Government Members have proposed four and one motion for a resolution in opposition. So just so we know when we're judging the opposition, the coalition, who's proposing what. That's all from the final word. I just want to say to the Vice-President that we have a total of five motions for resolutions. I propose that we vote separately on each of them. First of all, about mine and then gradually about the four proposals made by Mr Hovorka. I have them all in writing and I would always read them before the vote, because they are not available to individual Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u67	If the final word is finished, we will decide by voting on the proposals for individual resolutions. The rapporteur said how we would organise. Does anyone have any objection to the procedure proposed by the rapporteur? It's not like that. We can therefore proceed in the way proposed by the rapporteur. Please, you may begin, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u68	Thank you. First of all, we will vote on the motion for a resolution that I have tabled. I will repeat it: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to ensure full compensation for clients of Czech Railways affected by icing and ice on 1 to 3 December 2014.' My recommendation is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u69	Yes. The Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u70	My recommendation is negative with the fact that I want to comply within the Czech Railways.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u71	Okay, thank you. We have heard the motion for a resolution and recommendations. I've begun voting order number 74. I ask who is in favour of this motion for a resolution. Sorry! Okay, I declare vote 74 misguided. I'll check you out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the number of people present in the hall has settled, we will vote on this motion for a resolution. Voting number 75, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 75. Of the 163 present for 61, versus 55. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u72	The other proposals are for Mr Hovorka. First proposal: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to deposit the Czech Railways, joint stock companies, to ensure a sufficient number of diesel locomotives to ensure emergency operation of long-distance transport for trains...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u73	Quiet, please! Proceed, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u74	I can't wait. I can't...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u75	I would ask individual fellow Members to speak only when they are given the floor. Those who are not interested in discussing this point may go into the foyer. It's their free will. Proceed, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u76	As part of the coalition cooperation, it must be said that the members of social democracy are shouting that they cannot be heard by their coalition partner's proposals. It's not my fault I'm the rapporteur. Take it to some coalition council or somewhere else and don't yell at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u77	Then I ask for a proposal, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u78	Ensure sufficient number of diesel locomotives to ensure the emergency operation of long-distance transport for Eurocity, Intercity, express and express trains under adverse climatic conditions and large-scale power outages. My opinion is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u79	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral. A loud response in the hall, even laughter can be discerned.]] I've begun the vote on order 76, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 76. Of the 166 Members present for 15, versus 106. The motion was not accepted. I'd like another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u80	The next motion for a resolution is exactly the same, I will not read it. We impose on the government through the committee chair to check the readiness of the Czech Railways to ensure operation in emergency situations and adverse climatic conditions. My position is neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u81	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Yes. I've started the vote on order 77 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 77. Of the 167 present for 118, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u82	Thirdly, ensure the operation of the crisis staff and an adequate crisis voice centre in emergency situations to ensure that customers and staff of České dráhy are informed. Neutral position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u83	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've started a 78-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 78. Of the 167 present for 58, versus 6, the proposal was not accepted. Please, another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u84	At the same time, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to reconsider the adequacy of the remuneration of the top management of the Czech Railways following the achieved results of the Czech Railways in passenger and freight transport. My opinion is negative, because it is a matter of executives, not the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u85	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've begun the vote on order 79, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 79. Of the 167 present for 78, versus 21. The motion was not accepted. We have exhausted all the amendments. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. And this time, the rapporteur, in the role of President of the Club of Deputies, is claiming priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u86	Allow me to comment briefly on the results of the vote. We started out so friendly, I said it wasn't on the head of the Minister. However, in my opinion, the House's incredible decision, which does not want to reward clients, and they vote against the Minister's recommendation, is already on his head. Almost half of the House wanted to deal with the salaries of three members of the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways. Why not? But those tens of thousands of customers who are bureaucratically demanding money and not getting it back in full, don't give a damn! This is the result of our actions. If I had known, we didn't even have to discuss that point!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u87	I thank the President of the ODS Parliamentary Club for his speech. We are among the points, but with priority rights is the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u88	Thank you for the floor. I am among the points, because otherwise I do not have a chance, I wanted to respond to the very remarkable position of the Minister of Transport on the first vote proposed by President Stanjura. Please, once again, the Minister of Transport said: I am opposed to government dealing with this, but in principle I promise you that in the Czech Railways I will do it somehow. I would be very interested to know how he would like to do this somehow, because as far as I know, according to the valid law of lex specialis on the railways of the Czech Republic, the Steering Committee is in charge of it, supervised by the Supervisory Board, and the Minister of Transport, Mr Ťok, is not a member of either the Steering Committee or the Supervisory Board. But he's still telling us he's just gonna do it somehow. And I believe him. We acknowledge that the Minister of Transport is ready to work and follow the model of his party leader to go outside the law and to do so in violation of the law. By saying this, Minister, you have assumed political responsibility for everything that will happen in the Czech Railways. When anything happens there and you say that the steering committee, the CEO or the Supervisory Board are responsible for it, please nicely, we're not gonna believe you, because now you've told us that you're just gonna do it somehow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u89	A comment from the Chairman of the TOP 09 club called for a request from the Minister of Transport - no. All right. He's not claiming priority rights. Roman Sklenák, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club, is claiming priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u90	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given the advanced hour and the many points that we have to discuss today, I would like to propose that we take today's discussions and take a procedural vote on all proposals after the 19th hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u91	Okay, that's in front of a block of laws returned to the Senate and submitted to the regions that I wanted to initiate. We will decide the procedural proposal without debate. We are voting on the proposal to negotiate today after 19 o'clock Meritorially on the laws within 21 o'clock. I have begun voting number 80 and I ask who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 80 of 166 present for 82, against 33, the proposal was not accepted. We will therefore act today on a provisional decision within 19 hours if there is no one who wants to question his territorial vote because of the difference between his will and his electronic record of the outcome. Mr. Váňa. No, Mr. Velebný reporting. I'm sorry, even my colleague Váňa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour, but I have a cross, so I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u93	Yes. The objection to the electronic record of the outcome of the vote was brought forward immediately. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your identification cards and, at the request of Mr Velebný, we will vote again on the procedural proposal of the President of the Social Democracy Club on today's meeting after 7:00 p.m. The number of people present has stabilized. Initiating vote 81, where we will decide on the objection. Please, who is in favour of accepting Mr Velebný's objection? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 81, from the present 164 for 157, against no one. Objection received. We will therefore repeat the vote on Mr Sklenák's procedural proposal in voting 82, which I have begun. Who's in favour of negotiating the laws of meritorne even after 7:00 p.m.? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 82, of 163 present for 85, against 42, the proposal was adopted. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura is still reporting, so I will not state the result of the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u94	Thank you. I would ask government officials to send a message to the Minister without work, who is not here today, who negotiated negotiations for 19 hours for the Constitution, that the negotiations will not therefore be. Nothing more, nothing less. Next time a minister wants a meeting, he could at least spend that day with us. In addition, he doesn't have any ministry to run, but he called a meeting today ten minutes after 19 o'clock. It really won't. Don't even let him come here when he hasn't arrived yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u95	Okay, this message will probably be read to him from the log. The chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u96	Thank you. Just a reflection of what Mr Stanjura said. I wouldn't hurry. Don't send a message to the Minister without a job, I think the meeting might as well be. I'm not sure if we're gonna act at 7:10.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-09-ps2013-023-05-004-133.u97	I cannot give you a word, Chairman of the Committee, because only those with priority rights have the floor. We're among the points. No one with priority rights applies. Allow me to propose, at the request of Senate President Milan Štěch, to allow you to perform to senators and senators, Josef Táborský, František Bublan, Eliška Wagnerová, Miroslav Nenutil, Petr Šilar, Jan Hajda, Jaromír Strnad and Veronika Vrecionová, before we begin the bill block returned by the Senate. Information has been distributed to you in your mail. These senators would state the individual rebuttals or rejected proposals by the Senate. We will decide on the 83 vote that I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour of the performance of the proposed senators. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 83 of 168 present for 156, against no one. It is obvious that we love the representative of our Parliament's upper chamber, so everyone will perform. I am of the opinion that we have approved this proposal. Now, allow me to say one more apology, namely, my colleagues, the Bezecný, from 6 p.m. for reasons of work. So he apologizes from today's meeting. We will continue according to the approved agenda and that is item number
