ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u1	88. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, three responses were submitted to the interpelations which the Member was not satisfied with and therefore asked for publication on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there is no debate on the response to his interpellation, the House will not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to the answers to the written interpelations. The first request is Mrs. Interpelation of Mrs. Jitka Chalánková to Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek on the removal and subsequent division of Czech children, siblings, in Norway to citizens of the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a press of 185. I am opening the debate and the words will be taken by Interpelling Member Jitka Chalánková. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted a total of four written interpelations on the removal and subsequent division of Czech children, siblings, in Norway, citizens of the Czech Republic, and, moreover, before that, an oral intervention on the Prime Minister. Today we are to discuss the answers of Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, Minister Helena Válková, Minister Michaela Marksová-Tominová, with whom I am not satisfied. I presume that, mostly after explaining the reasons for my dissatisfaction in the general debate, I will propose a suspension of the debate in the general debate and a negotiation at the next House meeting. In addition to the fact that some of the interpelees are not present, three other reasons lead me to do so. Firstly, Minister Dienstbier also responded to my interpellation. I am not satisfied with it either, but there has been a time shift and therefore we cannot discuss it yet. I think it is desirable that we discuss all four written interpelations at the same time. In addition, on the basis of the reply of Minister Válková, I am now considering interpelling the Minister Chovanec. Secondly, I want to give room to the Government's members who have been consulted to complete their answers before the final vote on the basis of today's debates in the general debates. And thirdly, two weeks from now, we will have elections to the European Parliament, and I do not want this topic to be abused in the electoral struggle. My goal is not to take advantage of this matter in the election struggle, I do not want to make myself politically visible and then let it go. My goal and the aim of all of us should be to ensure that both Czech children, illegally detained in Norway, return home to the Czech Republic and correct the obvious injustice committed by the Norwegian State on them and their mother. It is not a matter of several interventions, and I do not intend to leave this subject until I have reached the stated goal. We should look for a solution together, and I hope that we will also, regardless of who is in the government and who is in opposition, and that is why it will be better to negotiate this after the election. Now get to the point. Let me briefly sum up what's going on. Both young children were taken from Czech citizens living in Norway long-term, allegedly due to sexual abuse. Sexual abuse has never been proven, on the contrary, all indications suggest that it was a constructed submission of kindergarten employees with the clear aim of harming parents. Although the Norwegian police have ruled out possible abuses themselves, the children remain withdrawn for the third year and there is absolutely nothing to suggest that the Norwegian authorities are going to correct their misconception and, contrary to facts and evidence, continue to insist that they do not have to admit fatal misconduct. In addition, siblings are divided because there was no foster family who wanted to raise them together. All the answers, except perhaps the answer from Prime Minister Sobotka, have one thing in common. They're all formulated as a defense. As a defense of why the Czech Republic cannot intervene in any way, virtually. why it has not already intervened and why it cannot be relied on even in the future. There is no promise at all that the Czech state will stand up for its citizens, no outline of the solution. They're mostly alibi responses from civil servants. Or anyone who wants to look for ways who doesn't want to look for reasons. There's one other thing that's not right. Although all interpelations have the same basis and differ only by specific questions, although they were all delivered to ministers through the Prime Minister, the various departments did not cooperate in preparing answers at all. It clearly shows that the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing. And you can't even see the effort to toss the whole case like a hot potato. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot do anything, refers to the Office of International Child Protection, the Office of International Children Legal Protection refers to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs etc. Perhaps enough reason for the House to deal with this beyond interpelling at some of the next meetings and to force the Czech Government at least to overcome its ministry and function as a whole in this matter. And now I come to see why I do not agree specifically with the first answer, which is the answer of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Dear Minister, your answer came first. She didn't please me at all. In the end, however, I must admit that she was the most helpful compared to others. I understand your resort was the first to be confronted with the case. I am aware that our embassy in Oslo is constantly following him, but I am afraid that mere surveillance is not enough. The Conservative Service is set up to deal with typical situations according to pre-defined procedures. But this case is special. There is no template for him and I am not surprised that the consular service is doomed to merely follow the case, nota bene, when it is exposed to the immense incompetence of subalternary Norwegian officials. Therefore, the solution needs to be transferred to a diplomatic or a diplomatic solution. even international legal levels. I am sorry that I did not find any indication in your reply of an assessment in terms of general public international law, let alone an indication of the procedures that would be possible within it. I mean, so-called. diplomatic protection as a specific legal institute of international law. I am aware that there is no legal claim and that it is not and should not be regulated by law. However, this does not mean that we should completely resign from it. The Indians have not resigned and have been successful, as I have already mentioned - I will speak - in response to Secretary Marksová' reply. [[9.20 hours]] The Slovák were also successful in some cases in relation to Britain. They were simply looking for ways to achieve theirs, not ways to justify that they were just watching the case. Therefore, I do not agree that further steps can only be taken by judicial means. There is a need for diplomatic pressure, which will cause the Nor herself to dissipate this case, which embarrasses them. To the general part of your answer. I assume the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when it mentions the Norwegian Children's Care Act of 17. 6. 1922, he actually means the law of 17. 6. 1992, I'm pointing to the margin. And now for my individual questions. Dear Minister, I acknowledge that there is a meeting with the Norwegian Ambassador in the Czech Republic, but why is this meeting only at the level of Chief Executive Director of the Legal and Consular Section Jana Reinišová, and why aren't you and the Ambassador meeting personally? Why don't you personally intervene with your Norwegian colleague Brende? Minister, both children have been separated from their parents for three years, and we need to act quickly. Not so that their grandsons may be satisfied. It is also not possible to wait for a decision on further action until the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights has been delivered. It might be too late. The Czech Republic needs to make it very clear that it is interested in its citizens, because this too can be reflected in the speed and content of decision-making. Perhaps nothing prevents the Czech Republic from giving the court its own opinion. For example, if Norway does not feel any pressure from the Czech Republic, nothing will force it to deal with things again. You have to push them, that's your role, not access their game rules. You also state that it is essential that parents do not underestimate the situation and, in the event of the child being removed, take advantage of free legal advice on family matters and the provision of legal services free of charge. Free legal services are never as high-quality as services paid precisely because they are free. And not only, as has been shown in the Norwegian case, similar legal services tend to lead to decisions against biological parents. Eva M received several legal advice in Norway. First, to divorce her husband, first, to agree to the temporary placement of children in foster homes. Both turned against her. Unfortunately, these legal services are, in fact, often secretly or openly acting as part of the prosecution and advises basically one thing - confess and cooperate and do not cause problems, otherwise it will be even worse for you. The parents of both brothers really underestimated the situation, but they underestimated it by relying on the recommended free Norwegian legal services. Finally, the Ministry's website. I asked you whether it was possible for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to draw attention to states that would, if necessary, appear to them for citizens of the Czech Republic in terms of the high number of children being taken as a risk, on its website as it points out other specifics of individual countries. I emphasize the word of the individual. You gave me a link to a page related to generally caring for children abroad. In general, abroad. There is no mention of the situation in Britain, there is no mention of the situation in Norway. There is no such reference even on the pages dedicated specifically to Norway and specifically to Britain. In other words, Czech citizens intending to settle in Norway or Britain in the long term have no chance of finding out from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website that the probability of their children being taken away from them is several orders higher than the probability that the same will happen to them in the Czech Republic, and that children are often taken away for petty reasons in these countries and on the basis of unsubstantiated statements. Mr. Minister, leave your subordinates to fill it in on the web like this, or correct your answer to my fourth question, because it doesn't match the facts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u3	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek has signed up for the debate. Before that, we should make a decision on the proposal made here by Mrs Jitka Chalánková to discuss this interpelation together with the answers of Minister Válková and Minister Marksová. Since both of them are excused, I will not do so, because it would in principle not be possible to make a procedural decision in their absence. So now we would be dealing with this matter. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u4	I'm just technically. I spoke to Secretary Marksová about this, she's informed and she agrees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u5	I think we're going to discuss this matter in a matter of fact. The Minister is here and we can deal with this and then we will decide on the individual responses that were here separately anyway, because we do not have the two ministers present and are duly excused. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u6	Thank you, and I wish you good morning, too. I will try to respond to Mrs Chalánková's interpelation. In the introduction, however, I would just like to say how it was said here from the mouth of the Member that I should turn directly to the Norwegian Foreign Minister on this matter - just before I start answering, I would suggest that we imagine how it would have been if it had been the other way around, if this case had been the other way around with some Norwegian children here in the Czech Republic and the Norwegian minister directly turned to me and told me that he wanted me to make some sort of correction or change in the case. So what would I do? I would probably stand before him in court - and what options do I have as a minister if I wanted to comply with him? Go talk to the judge and tell him to make a different decision? Or how do I try to restore this trial, a man who doesn't have direct access to the materials? I don't have a choice, I'm not a party to this dispute, I don't have a chance to get to know what's going on, I have no way of getting to it in a normal way. And you may have noticed in the honourable Member's speech that, of course, quite serious accusations have been made against parents. Maybe it hasn't been proven, but we find ourselves on the ice of something we can't get to, we can't judge for ourselves. I myself am unable or would not be able to examine the entire case separately in such a reverse situation and get to know whose side the truth is. That's the role of the court, the court is judging the parents' guilt, the court is judging that. So I'm just saying, if I'm in the opposite situation, and the Norwegian minister, or even any other person, has turned to me, I imagine I'd suddenly have to say to him, "I'm sorry, but in our system, I don't have the power to influence the decision of the court, and I don't even have access to examining it, I have no competence. From the Constitution, from the system of divided power, I have no tools. So I'm just trying to explain that it's not that you don't want to, I don't think I just don't want to talk to the Norwegian minister. It seems to me that I would find myself in a similar situation as I described it in a mirror, that he would look at me, what I really want from him, that I do not realize that he cannot influence the decision of the court. I'm trying to explain that it's not some unwillingness to act or that we're not willing to do more for children who are obviously not in a simple situation, and I can imagine that, but it comes down to the fact that the system doesn't logically allow us to be effective in this much. And then, of course, here is the fact that we are running into another state's legal system, which, as you all know, we have an International Protection Office for Children or Children, which is based in Brno, and which is currently dealing with bumping into each other two legal systems in case we have a case of parents who live in one country, and of course those parents are of different origins. So I can only tell you the fact that our representative office in Oslo was already informed about this case in June 2011 through the Office for International Children's Protection in Brno. When I was familiar with what was going on, I found that immediately afterwards our embassy asked the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs for an explanation of the case, and since I checked, this case has been paid maximum attention from my point of view from the representative office, when our Czech ambassador in Norway personally deals with it. I can only say here what may not have been said is that both children were actually born in Norway, their usual residence is Norway and both children speak only Norwegian. [[9.30 hours]] Therefore, the Norwegian court's decision was taken from its biological parents and entrusted to foster care for serious reasons, as the Norwegian authorities put the child's interest above the interest of biological parents. That's the kind of legal system that we can't change and not even get into. Norway is not a signatory to the Hague Convention on the Authority's competence in matters of parenting, and therefore the Norwegian authorities are governed by the 1922 Child Care Act in the care of children of other nationalities. All information relating to the care of children of other nationalities is provided by the Norwegian authorities only in accordance with the legislation, namely parents only. children, if they have reached the appropriate age. Despite the fact that we have been informed by the Norwegian party that the Czech Embassy is not a party to the proceedings and therefore cannot be provided with information, our representative office is still actively trying to communicate with the Norwegian authorities, mediating contacts with the Office for International Children's Protection in Brno and is also in contact with Mrs Michálková and her attorney Mrs Boková. It has already been said here that the head of the Legal and Consular Section here at our ministry was acting with the Norwegian Ambassador. I believe that she is a competent person who is dealing with this issue and is able to estimate the possibility for her to conduct this very course of action. Of course, I am well aware that this is very sensitive and that the fate of these children is probably very difficult and complex. But it seems to me as I was familiar with the course of the events by the Czech authorities, I did not find anything from our side that we would neglect and what we could do and what we could still have some competence for. So the basic point is that the Czech Ministry of Foreign Affairs really cannot influence the activities and, above all, the decisions of independent Norwegian courts that further action can only be taken by judicial means. Therefore, since many court decisions have been issued in the case of Michálkův's children, the only possible reversal is this way. And our representative office in Oslo and our ministry recommended that Mrs Michálková turn to the European Court of Human Rights, which was, as I have noted, as Mrs Michálk says, that she considers it insufficient. However, Mrs Boková, therefore Mrs Michálková's attorney, actually filed this complaint, on 25 November 2013 she was registered and we therefore think that we should await the decision. So I think the tools that could be used here are quite exhausted. Of course, I do not prevent myself from continuing to discuss this case or seeking ways, but from my point of view, I do not really find myself able to get to know the case so thoroughly that I can demand something from the Norwegian court, the Norwegian minister etc. I don't think I have any assurance that I'm doing the right thing. It's pretty easy for me to imagine if I don't put my dog's head on that Norwegian court that he's probably dealing with a lot more information than we can in this case. So much for this difficult case, but I don't think I've satisfied Mrs Chalánková very much. I'm sure you do. But if I find out what the shortage is, I'd like to correct it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u7	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and further to the debate by Mrs Chalánková... [[Ms Chalanková and Mr Vácha state at a distance outside the microphone to the President.]] I have Mr Vácha with a factual point and Mr Kučera with a factual point. So Mr Vácha is the first to make a point of fact. Please. Mr. Ambassador, you have time to make your point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this was the output of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic... Czech citizens are being detained in Norway! Three years Mommy can't see her baby. [[Very emotional.]] Three years she is allowed to see her child only twice a year, she must not express any feelings, she must not speak Czech with them! And this was the answer of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic! [[The noise in the hall.]] I also see the role of state as a protection of citizens of the Czech Republic and protection not only within the Czech Republic but also outside. I can imagine, Minister, much stronger steps by the Czech Government and the Foreign Minister, which - and I firmly believe so - would be able to move the Norwegian side to either return to the Czech Republic or at least return to their parents. This is alibis! And the MP spoke of it too. That's just alibiism. I don't like this. And then I have one more comment on the whole House. I understand this as a very serious thing, and I'm really sorry, and it's both left and right that during the hearing, you're just looking at your laptops, your screens, and you're not listening to what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u9	Minister, I can't give you the floor unless you're referring to a point of fact, because another actually signed up was Mr Kučera. [[to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who was coming to the pitch]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I join the words of my previous speaker, Mr Vácha. We have heard the words of the head of Czech diplomacy. I think that this speech gave Minister Zaorálek a new dimension to Czech diplomacy. As a diplomat, I think he has much more options and tools than normal administrative procedures. And I would really hate to send a signal to all our Czech citizens, that if anything happens to them abroad, if they get into a difficult situation, if they get into a situation that local authorities do not deal with in their favour, so that Czech diplomacy will put their hands off them and leave free hands to the local authorities without any interest from the Czech Republic. The message sent by the head of Czech diplomacy is very frightening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u11	I thank the honourable Member for his time. And also with the factual remark of Mr Adámek and then the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u12	Good morning, colleagues, colleagues. I can only think of two things when I listen to this sad history. I'll be very short. As I understand it, this sad history has been going on for three years. If we have a new dimension here today, what I want to ask is, the correct dimension that was here until last year, how did it work out? I am referring to former Minister Schwarzenberg. And when I listened to my previous speakers about how our diplomacy under the leadership of Minister Zaorálek is wrong... I don't know if they'd be satisfied if we voted for some ambush squad, went to Norway, freed the kids... Would that be okay? Thank you. (Excellent applause for some Members of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u13	I thank Mr Adámek for his time. Now, Mr. Foreign Minister. Minister, I'm going to ask you to bear with me, because I've been asked quite a crucial question, and I think it's my duty to answer the manager, given that you have to submit proposals for oral questioning by 11 o'clock. I'll read you a positive list of government members who will be this afternoon, because I've already quoted apologies. So the afternoon meeting, by interpelling, is attended by ministers: Dienstbier, Brabec, Jurečka and Chládek. There. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u14	Yes. I just want to remind you once again that the entire case has been known to the State Department since 2011, which means that the righteous outrage we have witnessed could have been heard much earlier. If you really are so convinced that diplomacy in this has such crucial possibilities that it has neglected, then it would be good to realize that it is taking a good time to neglect them, and the indignation could indeed have moved it if it had been, perhaps, two and a half years ago. Maybe something could have moved because he had a chance to find out, I suspect, your minister already has opportunities that I'm afraid I don't know about. [[9.40 hours]] Here are some rather fiery statements of the kind that the court's decision is against our citizens and so on. All I can do is envy the information you have that you can judge the decision of the Norwegian court. You probably have very bad ideas about Norwegian justice and priori, probably compared to Czech you would be able to prove that in these cases he has some much worse culture and cannot be trusted. Or do you mean that when it comes to someone who is connected to a Czech citizen, the decision must be in his favor, whatever it may be. As Jean-Paul Sartre once wrote in his lectures: "She is my mother. Let her be drunk, dirty, liar, I don't give a damn 'cause she's my mother." So do we, because we have someone there who is Czech blood, so the courts have to decide on his behalf, no matter what he did? Is that what you mean? Of course, it is not possible to deal with the Norwegian side that easily. Because if you had met the Norwegians you would have dealt with, they probably wouldn't have believed that their courts had failed so terribly. And I point out precisely because it is two legal systems of two states, so it is not so easy on our part to prove to them that their courts are not working, that they have decided wrong that they have simply damaged someone here, that they may have damaged a Czech citizen. Because it is not simple or because it is not simple, that is why we have a special office that solves these regularly complex cases where the interests of two parents from two states come upon each other, and that is why it is complicated, which I believe even Mrs Chalánková does not deny, at least this one thing that this is a complicated case. The idea that a minister who just scolds someone properly on the Norwegian side or uses similar methods is ridiculous. This does not correspond to the basic political culture. And I'm saying, just because I don't have a chance to access information - I'm not saying that I don't have any, because in some way, you might get to the description, but I can't even say it here because I would touch the people involved. And I have no right to do that either. I can't say the arguments here right now why I don't think it's so black and white because it wouldn't be defensive. I have even limited opportunities to inform you about what this case looks like, because I could actually touch the right to protect people, which is why I can't tell you the true reasons for my doubts. But I'm not really into the whole thing, because I really can't go into this case. So when I'm talking out of focus here, I'm not doing this because I don't want to inform you, but that this really is a complex legal thing and I'm not allowed, I'm not a judge, I'm not part of telling you the truth here why I think the situation is really so complicated and that the role of these people is not that simple. And I will not allow myself to judge here that I am able to have a more accurate view, and to say exactly what those we are interested in have been harmed in and what they are to be helped in. So it's quite simple here to say that we have a mother here, who, of course, is also in a difficult situation, I can imagine, but it's really hard to help her. And the road to that is very hard. The Bureau itself does not mean that you are a person who can enter into such complex human things. I'm not at all opposed to dealing with this case and looking for ways to, say, legal aid, what we can provide, what we can help, because we have an understanding, because it's a difficult situation. But it is not possible for us from one Czech institution to another Norwegian to deliver recommendations on what they should do. It's not that easy to deal with. So we can talk about instruments that are actually circumstantial and where we can help the person to enforce the law, and I think that's all we can do, at least when I'm talking about the State Department. That's how I understand my role, and I'm trying to live up to it. But I certainly don't think from what was said here that I would take away, that I really neglected something, because it seems to me that there is a very inaccurate vision of this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u15	Thank you, Minister. I know, Madame, that you applied, but my colleague Vácha made a point of fact. [[to Ms Chalánková]] I will ask you, Mr. Ambassador, for a moment's patience, because I have just read the positive list of ministers who will attend this afternoon's meeting, and I must correct it, because I have now received an apology from the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka. [[Applause and cheer in the left and banging on the right.]] Those who think that I was doing something other than researching other things here, so I note that I have actually downloaded things that concern the Government of the Czech Republic so that I can give you objective information. My colleagues checked me for opening pages of the government of the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u16	Thank you. Minister, I didn't question the Norwegian courts' statements, I just didn't like the kind of evasive answer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That was all I criticized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u17	I thank the honourable Member for his time. Now, Mrs Jitka Chalánková with her speech. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u18	Thank you. Just for a very short time. I began my speech by saying that, in the end, the answer of the Minister of Foreign Affairs was the most helpful of all the answers of the others. I repeat that the case is really atypical, which is why I asked for the development of possible diplomatic pressure. As things have been said here about the mirror case, for example, if something like this happens backwards for the citizens of Norway in the Czech Republic, I will discuss it in the reply of Minister Válková, because this concerns the judiciary and I can certainly put it in a general form here. As for children, they lived in the Czech Republic for a year. Their language Norwegian is because the mother is forbidden to speak Czech with her children. The question that Norway is not a signatory to the Hague Convention will also be mentioned in response to the reply of Minister Válková and I will explain what the complication is in this case. It is clear that this case really wants coordinated action by more ministries. I am not saying one but more, and I therefore propose that we interrupt the discussion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' reply to the written interpelation in the general debate under House Press 185, so that we can actually reconcile the procedure, because it is time and it is a situation that is here and now, not about what has happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-15-ps2013-008-07-001-088.u19	Yes, thank you. This is a procedural proposal that we can decide without debate. I'm not gonna comment on that. We will decide in the vote the serial number 174, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting the debate on this intercession. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 174, from 126 Members present for 73, against 3. The motion was accepted. I therefore interrupt negotiations on the interpelation of Mrs Jitka Chalánková to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek, as well as the interpelation in the same matter to Minister Válková and Minister Marksová, who are not present at today's meeting. - Sorry, sorry. This will have to be made by a separate decision, the interruption, if you insist. Otherwise, you could offer the President's procedure, but Mrs Jitka Chalánková will comment on this. [[Mrs Chalánková speaks outside the microphone with the President.]] I had it voted with one vote, but I note that this is a slightly non-standard procedure, because it is the same thing for three ministers. Mrs Chalánková described it exactly here, and I voted with one vote to interrupt the fact that both Madam Secretary were duly excused. If no one objects to the President's procedure, the negotiations on interpelation will be suspended - press 185, 186 and 187. No one objects, so I am interrupting this discussion and at the same time ending paragraph 88, because we have exhausted all the rejected interpelations that have been put forward before the opening of this meeting, although there will probably be even more at the next meeting. [[9.50 hours]] Now we have one procedural decision ahead of us. On a proposal from the diaper, it was decided that from 11 o'clock, i.e. from the date of completion of the hearing of the replies to the written interpelations, points 30, 31, 42, 43, 44 were firmly inserted and, today, new point 26. I ask, and we will decide in the vote 175, if we can start discussing these points in ten minutes ten after we have finished point 88. We will decide in the vote the order number 175 if we can begin before the 11th hour of the hearing. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 175 of 127 for 94, against no one. Thank you for your helpfulness and therefore we will continue by firmly ranked points in accordance with the approved order. Before I start point 30, I'll read more apologies. For today's meeting, Mr Jakubčík, Mrs Miroslava Strnadlová, apologizes for today's meeting between 9 and 13 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Stanislav Pfléger and Mr Josef Novotný also apologizes for working reasons. That was another apology from today's meeting. I'm starting point number now.
