ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u1	92. The current situation in Ukraine and the position of the Government of the Czech Republic to the massacre in Odessa on 2. 5. 2014 I ask an authorized member of the government, in this case the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Lubomír Zaorálek, to take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me, therefore, say a few words in the introduction to the point that we have included in the agenda, and this is the current situation in Ukraine. We have, of course, been getting information in the last few days about the injured, and not only the injured, but also the dead in the environment of eastern Ukraine, but what caused the interest to talk about Ukraine here in the House were events that took place in Odessa and that exceeded the tragicness of what we have been hearing in the last days of Ukraine. So let me say, first of all, maybe, a few of the basic facts that we can get to, so that we know what actually happened in a nutshell, in those main features in Odessa. Maybe first I'd say that events in Odessa on May 2 didn't come out of nowhere. Those events occurred after, in fact, in those days - we also had information before May 2 that various groups, whether pro-Russian or pro-Ukrainian, were marching on each other. There were skirmishes, skirmishes between the two groups, and it is also true that the police were not particularly involved in these incidents. And the events really culminated on May 2nd, and it happened in the rough features roughly so that on May 2nd, the football match of the Ukrainian League was to be played in Odessa, the match was to start at 5:00 p.m. and at 3:00 p.m., the fans of the club Černomorec Odessa and Metalist Kharkov started to meet at Soborné Square in Odessa and the representatives of the pro-Ukrainian political leaders met there at 3:00 p.m., and the whole group, which grew up around 3:00 p.m., was about to walk out of Odessa, however, a group of pro-Russian activists began to approach from Retězká Street. The police were trying to separate both groups of pro-Russian and pro-Ukrainian groups and keep them apart by two cordons. For some time, the groups were tossing rocks and firecrackers, they rustled in a situation where they were not suddenly protected by the police at some point, started firing guns and went into counterattack, first wounds appeared, on the side of those pro-Ukrainian four dead. And according to the pro-Ukrainian, which was numerous, those pro-Russian activists had a gun and a machine gun, so it was an uneven fight in that first phase. The police didn't really do anything to end or prevent another conflict, so it happened that despite the weapon disadvantage that those football fans and those pro-Ukrainian fans had, the pro-Ukrainian Russian group managed to push back the pro-Russian group, especially because the pro-Russian group ran out of ammunition. Then the pro-Ukrainians went into counterattack and pushed the Russian separatists into Soborné náměstí. The police tried to separate both groups, but they didn't have the strength to do it, so the pro-Ukrainian group crossed the police and chased groups of pro-Russians all over the square, beat them with bats and everything they could get their hands on. Then the pro-Ukrainian group began to destroy the tent town of the separatists at the House of the Union and appeared among them guns and weapons. The building of the Union House probably started to burn from Molotovův cocktails that were tossed by both sides, and then the whole building started to burn with the fact that on the ground floor and on the first floor it was Molotovův cocktails of the pro-Ukrainian, on the fourth floor it was Molotovův cocktails of the pro-Russian ones. Police didn't show up at all for a long time, the first fire truck arrived about an hour later, and neither the police nor the firemen had long shown great willingness to rescue people from a burning building. So gradually the people in the square began to help themselves, using the construction of the stage, after which some of the people who remained in the building were triggered by the windows. Some, on the other hand, were panicking out of the windows. It came to pass that some who had just beaten those who had been persecuted had been dragging them out of the houses. Those who realized what was happening and that it was a disaster. In any case, the result is more than 40 dead and 200 injured. [[15.40 hours]] At this point, there are different versions of what actually happened. There's talk of an unknown substance burning in the union building that caused the instant death of dozens of people. I saw today's information that they were poisoned, also one hypothesis that appeared in the texts that comment on it. One says the fires were caused by the Molotovův cocktails that were prepared right inside the building, so there were supposedly incendiary mixtures inside. The entire situation is under investigation at the moment by a special investigation team of the Ministry of the Interior of the Ukrainian Government under the direction of Deputy Minister Čebotar. Until now, 127 people have been detained on suspicion of various crimes. There are also different foreigners, there are several Rus, Transnistria residents etc. Prime Minister Jaceňuk changed the entire police leadership at the beginning, but it is true that the management also made several other quite serious mistakes, such as releasing 67 of those detained to liberty, etc. At the same time, according to the fresh reports I'm reading, there's been an exchange of the governor of the entire area. The new governor is Ihor Palycja, a well-known figure. Let's just say there's a series of steps that are supposed to handle the situation there in some way. I think it's hard to say any definitive judgments today and separate the most accurate from the information. On the other hand, if I were to comment on this somehow, I would say roughly that I believe that what happened in Odessa has shown that the situation in eastern Ukraine has taken on its own dynamics and that virtually no one seems to have control over it at all. At this point, it seems to me that no centre - Kiev or Moscow - is having a major impact on events. Those groups operate today and don't listen to anyone. Moreover, the violence in Odessa has shown that we are on the edge of a military conflict, and I would even say military confrontation. That is why the situation is, in my opinion, extremely serious. However, I do not think that, as members of the European Union, the Alliance, we would be able to come up with any proposals that we would be able to do in a short time. I would like to express my deepest regret about the events here first, and I would like to express my condolences to the victims and the survivors. In fact, it is in a short time in Ukraine for the second time a tragedy, the extent of which is absolutely extraordinary. Perhaps as regards what we are doing at this point as a member of the European Union, I consider it important that we supply representatives to the OSCE observation mission, which should be quite extensive. This, in my view, is the most important instrument that we have today to try to stabilise the situation in Ukraine. At the same time, if a European Union mission were to be built that would have other functions and complement the OSCE mission, we are ready to support it. I know that some of you have been appointed observers for the presidential election on May 25th, and you are already asking me what you can expect today. Unfortunately, I don't have an exact answer for you. I can tell you that yesterday the last time I spoke to the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, of course by phone, and he apologized to me for what happened in connection with our Czech observer, an officer, was transported from Slavjansko to Donetsk, and you well know that Ukrainian soldiers were shooting at them. We don't know exactly why. It is rather a picture of the chaos that is now in Ukraine. I can only say that the Ukrainian minister apologized to me for the fact that, by mistake, Ukrainian soldiers fired on an observation mission, just liberated, in which was also a Czech soldier. He explained this, of course, with the very inconspicuous situation and the chaos that exists in the area. At the same time, the Minister assured me that they were prepared to do everything in their power to cope with this difficult situation and to prepare the country for the presidential election on 25 May. It's not even necessary to say that it's going to be extremely difficult. For those of you who are preparing for this mission, at this point, I think that I still believe that not only does Ukraine have an interest in managing the election, but I think that we should support it and we should be interested in it, because I still do not see any other and better way out of the crisis than stabilizing the country with the help of a newly elected president. I even wish that the newly elected President, who has this vital competence, would also decide on the organisation of new parliamentary elections. This would, in my view, be the ideal scenario to create a new leadership of Ukraine and a new parliament that might have a chance to consolidate the situation. So I wouldn't give up on the fact that the presidential election should be May 25th, and if you're going to, I hope there's a chance to help. So much for what happened there. Let me refrain from some big and strong reviews and looking for guilt. What is certain is that what happened is terrible, the tragedy is terrible, and it bothers me, of course, that in places where there is killing, we do not repeatedly know who is guilty. This also has to do with what happened in Kiev that you count the dead not for tens, there were over a hundred of them, but we do not seek out who is responsible, who is guilty, and there is no need for those concerned to be convicted and punished. I think here too, what's happening is killing people, and in a civilized society, restoring a normal civilized state is a punishment for crimes. I guess I don't have to tell you that I wish a culprit had been found and punished where such terrible crimes were committed. I wish the whole thing had been independently investigated. So that's my wish and my detailed information about what happened in Odessa. As I said before, she is working on the exact findings of the investigation group under the leadership of Deputy Interior Minister Čebotar, a special investigation team. If the Ukrainian party has problems with the investigation, for example, I think that the OSCE should be ready to help. Just for what I said to actually be found guilty, and when there are killers somewhere, they just have to be punished, otherwise it's hard to restore a civilized state in the country. It is true that something similar would be very desirable for the presidential election. I would like to tell you that if you ask me again about the situation, I think, in principle, that what happened in Geneva, that meeting of the parties Europe - Russia - Ukraine - The United States, in principle, has said what needs to be done. It was clearly said that armed groups that did not own weapons had to be disarmed, that occupied buildings had to be cleared and that law had to be restored in the country. Although today it is said that what has been agreed in Geneva does not apply and is gone, I believe that there is no other way than what has been said in Geneva and the agreement that everyone will respect it. I think what should be done is to go back to what has been given on paper in Geneva, but what, unfortunately, is not found in the reality of support and sufficient strength for everyone to fulfill it together. [[15.50 hours]] Not that we do not know the way out of this hell that took place in Odessa and is happening in eastern Ukraine, but it seems that until now there is not enough will for all participants to agree to do the same. I know there's a bunch of mistrust, blamed each other, and reluctant to respect each other. So much for what happened. There is no doubt about the tragedy of this matter, and I have no doubt that it concerns us. And for myself, I repeat, I express my deepest regret about what happened in Odessa, and I express my condolences to the survivors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u3	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I am opening a general debate, in which I am registering the Mrs Konečná's application. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear fellow Members of the Government, I would like to thank all those who participated in the initiative to discuss the position of the Czech Republic on the massacre in Odessa on 2 May. We've been confronted for five days with horror photographs and video sequences that depict people trapped in a burning union house shot in the hallways and offices of this house and beaten to death on the street outside this house. And this inferno was followed by another horror. The government of the Czech Republic was She kept her mouth shut just like so-called. Human rights defenders who thus called on today's overthrown president to restrain themselves and not to use force when today's rulers of Kiev were building barricades on Maidan and throwing Molotovův cocktails. The situation in Ukraine is beginning to be strikingly reminiscent of the Afghan, Iraqi or Libyan victory of our forces. We have established a pro-Western government, overseeing the occupation of the most important power and economic resorts. From time to time, we will hold controlled elections, but chaos and violence have settled in the country. It is time for Parliament to speak. Our position should be based on the thesis, which is the very opposite of frequent appeals seemingly towards reconciliation. I am referring to the naive calls for no one from abroad to interfere with the Ukrainian crisis. The current Kiev government has come to power with the help of the European Union, the United States of America and other foreign, especially Western allies. The southeast enjoys when not material, so certainly moral support from the east. The situation in Ukraine has matured into a situation where the struggling insurgents from Kiev and the southeast in captivity to emotions and ideological prejudices cannot find their way to the negotiating table. Thus, the only possible solution to their dispute becomes violence and the increasingly real threat of civil war. The investigation into the present Kiev government's destructive massacre is a complete distrust, and its conclusions will not be taken seriously by the other side. So-called. investigation of snipers' bullets killed on Maidan, especially at a time when the new Kiev elite, contrary to Geneva's arrangements, runs bloody cavalry operations against the Ukrajinec in the southeast of the country. In this situation, interference from abroad is necessary. But interference that doesn't play a zero-sum game. When every compromise is seen as a loss. We need foreign countries to actively interfere in an investigation into the horror in Odessa so that such horrors do not recur. This is only possible if the pressure from abroad forces the rebels from Kiev and the insurgents from the southeast to sit at the negotiating table and act, act and act until they find a travel map that draws at least the basic contours of Ukraine's journey out of the crisis. Dear colleagues, the active role of a number of Western institutions, especially the European Union, has compromised these organisations in overthrowing the democratically elected president and has made them completely untrustworthy for at least one party to the dispute. I therefore propose that the Government of the Czech Republic call on the Member States of the European Union and the Russian Federation to recognise the arbitration role of the OSCE. For this to be the OSCE, which will be given a mandate not only to investigate the massacre in Odessa, but also to lead the welding parties to the negotiating table. At the same time, I call on the entire government of the Czech Republic to condemn violence and fascism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u5	I thank the Member of the Konečná, and I will ask her as the first speaker to sit at the rapporteur's table. Please. Thank you. Another duly logged in is - sorry, with priority rights the Chairman of the TOP 09 Karel Schwarzenberg takes precedence. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, I must say that I am deeply touched by Mrs Konečná's legitimate position, which is defending the revolutionary process of the overthrown President and the former Ukrainian Government. I hope that the convention of legitimism will lead to the proposed dissolution of this House and the continuation of the meeting of the Czech Assembly, which was suspended during World War I. This would really bring this thinking to an end. But let's not make this funny, the situation is too serious. Ladies and gentlemen, in analysing the situation in Ukraine, we must take into account that foreign powers are interfering with the events in Ukraine. It's not just propaganda, it's not just television, it's also broadcasting armed forces. All of a sudden, there are wonderfully well-trained armed men taking the initiative. As for the tragedy in Odessa, after all, I would like to draw attention to what was found here, who started shooting first. Sometimes in demonstrations, I've been there before, throwing rocks. That's not nice, but it happens. But after all, there's something different than when one side reaches for firearms. It is quite understandable that the other side also acquired some revolvers. We must not forget that the whole process is really just an outrage from abroad against the newly elected Ukrainian government and against Ukraine's unity. It is very nice when we call for action, and it would certainly be good for both parties to come to a meeting. I am only concerned when foreign powers take over the process, I remember the events in 1938 when European powers also joined to resolve disputes between the German- and Czech-language population in the Czechoslovak Republic. The result is very well known to us. First, the rule must apply that state borders are untouchable and it is not the right of foreign powers to disturb these. We must insist. The first is to respect international law. Everything else, ladies and gentlemen, must go next door. We can have sympathy for one side or the other. I completely understand that there are people who do anything that Moskva does is good and beneficial, but law is law and that is the basis of international policy. If we abandon the law, we must not be surprised at further developments. In particular, the Czech Republic should contribute to Ukraine in its very difficult economic situation, should help if necessary and possible. Thankfully, several of the wounded from Ukraine are already being treated in our hospitals. Here too, the Czech Republic can play a very useful role and thanks to God it also performs this role. But we should not try to propose solutions that Ukraine, to say the least, would stand under the curate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u7	Thank you to President Schwarzenberg. With the factual remark of Mrs Kateřina Konečná. After that, with priority rights, President Radim Fiala. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u8	Thank you. Allow me only by your means, Mr Vice-President, to tell my foreman that I had no idea when we were discussing today that some of the speeches should be translated into other languages, which was the topic of the morning debate from your side, that I speak so little intelligible and Czech. I assumed that in the Czech Parliament we could speak Czech, and if you read the steno recording of my performance, you would have to question the whole first part of your speech because there was no such thing. First of all. And two. Believe me, I am sorry that, as former Minister of Foreign Affairs, you reject my proposal that the OSCE become an independent, impartial institution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u9	Thank you, Mistress Konečná. With priority rights, please the President of the Radim Fiala Dawn Parliamentary Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, colleagues, we have been talking about Ukraine, it hasn't been that long, and now it seems that the situation in Ukraine is escalating, doesn't calm down, and we are beginning to talk here in my opinion about the second part. What we were commenting on here a while ago was the first part of the situation, and today comes the second part. The Dawn Movement, at a time when others rejoiced that the new, happy era of Ukraine was beginning in Majdan, warned that this form of violent coup d'état and subsequent non-compliance with the agreements of 21 January would pose a threat to escalating violence. Representatives of the European Union were also the signal of the agreements of 21 January. Foreign ministers of Poland, Germany, France have waved their hands over the agreement and have made room for the radical political forces of Ukrainian nationalists. Instead of putting hard pressure on these compromise agreements, these European politicians turned their hands and said, "It's okay. After all, they're our fascists. The idea of a democratic revolution, the idea of a positive change that began with the Maidan movement, was so captivated by actionable nationalist political forces. Unfortunately, these forces pushed out the Ukrainian Democrats. They do not hide their admiration for the traditions of the Bander movement and do not hide their hatred of Russia, including part of their own Ukrainian fellow citizens, who have culturally and linguistically towards Russia, this country, close. Unfortunately, today it is they who act as a representative of Ukrainian patriots. This situation has also opened up space for Russia's defence of its interests. And we may like it more or less, but the defense is logical and inevitable. The United States of America is acting exactly the same way, whether it was an invasion in Panama or in Grenada. On May 2 the escalation of the conflict in Ukraine got a new dimension. The massacre in Odessa means the end of Ukraine, as we know it today. If anyone wants to preserve Ukraine as a united state with the central government today, they are driving Ukraine to war. The massacre in Odessa must be subjected to an independent investigation, which establishes the responsibility of specific persons, authorities, politicians. The Kiev government's view that the massacre is caused by Russian provocateurs and that it is all the work of Moscow is so ridiculous and embarrassing that it belongs to Haškův's literature. I think it is time for the Czech Government and the Czech Republic to reconsider their position on the current government in Kiev. Their indirect responsibility for this massacre is obvious and direct responsibility must be investigated. The government in Kiev is everything but a group of Democrats fighting for democratic values. When I listen to some of the statements of this political Garniture, I feel like these people are on cocaine. Let us remember that hundreds of Czech citizens, our compatriots, still live in Ukraine, even in the eastern region, and it is their destiny that we are debating here. Their situation and position should be re-examined by the government today. In today's situation, illegal armed formations must be disarmed, including so-called. National Guards, Strike Battalions of the Right Sector and the Federation's Self-Defense Division. The army has to go back to the barracks, and the police have to start doing their job. All political forces in Ukraine must be brought to the negotiating table. If this succeeds, Ukraine can survive in a similar form to today's Bosnia and Herzegovina. If this fails, Ukraine will be at war, and today's government in Kiev will lose in this war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u11	Thank you to Chairman Fial. With a point of fact, Mr Karel Rais is registered. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u12	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to underline the fact that has already been raised here, and we have also discussed this from the negotiations on the foreign committee, and that is that I think that Parliament should call on those states in conflict to respect the international treaties concluded on the non-variableness of national borders, because I think that is extremely important. Then there is the second factor that has not yet been discussed here, and we should also respond to this, the question of the Ministry of Defence's budget as a completely independent matter, because it is not possible to just look at this, it is really almost on the commute of our personal cars, what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u13	I thank Mr Rais. With another proper application, Mr Martin Lank is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u14	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear to me that almost everyone who has at least the elementary ability of a spoken or written speech is currently expressing himself about the situation in Ukraine, and I do not mean this honourable House. It is clear to me that I will not change much with my words, but from the position of President of the Inter-European Association of Friends of Ukraine I feel a kind of, say, moral obligation to give you such an incentive to think. You know, I'm a little worried that we're forgetting what's supposed to be the most important thing about Ukraine itself. We forget that Ukrajinec, both from the east of the country and those from the west, are completely normal people, and I believe they don't really want anything so special. They want to have a family, they want to have something to feed the family, and they don't want to be afraid to let the kids out because that's where the tanks go right now. And since I believe that normal decent people deserve to have a normal decent life, I also believe that no superpower pretext can be good enough for us to contribute in any way to the definitive start-up of the civil war there. Because the people who cause wars, and the people who ultimately profit from them, are not the people who pay for those wars with their lives, health, and property. If you ask those who are prescribed the role of the victim in this upcoming drama, I bet from both the east and the west of Ukraine you will hear one thing in the first place: As long as there is no war! Let's just do this, please. Let us do everything possible to have a legitimate democratic process there that will help Ukrajinec to choose exactly the kind of government and precisely the arrangement of the state that they see fit, not what someone from the outside is forcing them to do. And it doesn't matter whether it's Brussels or Moscow. I personally do not feel in any way competent to decide what is good for Ukrajinec. If any of you do, please. However, I would just like to remind you that our country has experienced in the past how the principle of us without us tastes. And I daresay it never did any good. If the Czech Republic can, in some unfortunate way, help Ukraine push the brink of a bloody civil war, we will all bear the consequences and, given the proximity of this country, it will probably not just be on a moral level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u15	Thank you, Mr Lank. Another duly registered member is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u16	Good afternoon, Mr President, good afternoon, colleagues. I would just like to briefly mention the matter that has already been said here in this Chamber of Deputies in connection with the discussion of Ukraine, that was during the previous discussion, and I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek today, if he could inform us about the situation surrounding the Volyň Čech, our fellow citizens who are there. [[16.10 hours]] I have spoken or remembered Volyňské Bohemia on the premises of this House and I would like to get more current information on how things are developing, whether some of the interest in eviction to our homeland, to the original homeland, takes up what the Czech Republic is doing on this matter, because I have read it, or therefore I know that the Security Council of the State has decided that there is no need to introduce any special measures in this matter. That's the first thing. So I would ask the Minister if he could inform us further on this matter, if he has some of the most up-to-date information. And I would also remember when I got to the word here, one thing, and that is the one that we may not all be aware of, when we are so easily and happy to pass on the competence of Brussels and Brussels headquarters, and that is what I have considered several times, how Brussels officials and the Brussels administration evaluated the situation in Ukraine when they wanted to sign an association agreement with this Ukraine as it is. How does it work in Brussels? Let us be really careful when we pass on more competence to the European headquarters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u17	I thank Mr Fiedler. Furthermore, with priority rights, the President of the TOP 09 Karel Schwarzenberg, followed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u18	Mr President, honourable Members, every state has the right to defend its borders and its territorial integrity. If armed groups seize the town hall, territories, etc., then the State concerned has the right to defend itself against them by armed force. I'd like to point that out after all. Calling on the army to return to the barracks while other armed groups in this country are rampaging, please, is merely helping those who illegally raise arms against fellow citizens and occupy a part of Ukraine. I would just like to draw attention to this normal fact of international law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u19	Thank you. Before we approach the Foreign Minister, Mr Foldyna, with a factual remark, followed by Mrs Konečná. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm like in Jiříkův's vision. Sorry, Mr Schwarzenberg, through Mr President, I am being tried by a heart attack from your words. You're saying it's legitimate for a country to deploy troops against its citizens. This is what you say here, who supported the bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999, when armed UCK groups were looting, bombing and killing in Serbia! You let Serbia steal his country! You said it was legal, you let it sanctify you with what and now you're moralizing and appealing. Mr President, Mr President, by your means, I respect you very much as a man who has certain years, but you have shocked me with hypocrisy. Please don't get out here again. That's immoral! You went to Maidan to support those groups and those activists without telling them that you don't want extreme groups armed and fighting. You guys just went there to support it, and it's outgrown it. The script is exactly the same as you did in the Balkans. You were looking at Syria anyway, Libya, and now you're moralizing and saying, well, it's legitimate that this government is going to bomb and fight with its people. But in other countries, when the government was defending itself against interferences that were armed from abroad, there you didn't mind, there you just stole it from Serbia! It's just absurd what I've heard here. I'm sorry I got so mad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u21	Thank you, honourable Member. Another factual point is withdrawn by Mrs Konečná. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr. Defence Minister Stropnický. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore do not understand this as clearly as some previous speakers. I don't know what information they have. I only have those with which the simple Minister of Defence of the Alliance and European Union Member States has, and that is not enough for clear courts at best will. The situation, I think, is too serious for us to make a campaign subject out of it. And maybe even watch out for cheap parallels a little bit. They're often spectacular, but even more often they're wrong. And maybe some of the analyses that are often based on TV shots or internet spots, but most of all on controlled emotions. We are witnessing a rather refined disinformation and provocation campaign that will not stop even from deliberately creating victims. The dead are a cynical part of the plan. We are witnessing basically a new leadership of the type of conflict. Cloaked and Kalashnik's extradition for the defender of the civil rights of the Russian minority and, on the other hand, a frustrated and decimated Ukrainian nation, all very complicated by several militant Ukrainian groups. So, with all due respect, it's a little more complicated than that. And perhaps just a little point to conclude. When we talk hypercritically and condescendingly about European politicians, we talk about ourselves. That's us. Aren't you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u23	Thank you, Minister Stropnický. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman TOP 09 Karel Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u24	I would like to draw Mr Foldyna attention through the President that he has taken false information. I never supported the bombing of Serbia. On the contrary, I remember this well, just before it started, was the Trilateral Commission meeting in Washington, and then there were three, unfortunately, only three present, who opposed the plan to launch the bombing of Serbia. It was, you'll be surprised, Henry Kissinger, he was the current Secretary of State of the Kingdom of Swedish Carl Bildt, and then I was in the debate. There is something different when the war took place and Serbia lost control of Kosovo, and there was no hope of getting it back, that I recognized Kosovo as an independent country. But I didn't really support the bombing of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u25	Thank you to President Schwarzenberg. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I very much enjoyed the sober speech of the Minister of Defence, and I fully subscribe to his rhetorical question that, of course, we are European politicians too. I would just like to remind you, Minister, that the chairman of your movement here this morning has made a bold claim that he is not a politician. Such a great request: couldn't you make it clear in this movement which of us are the politicians and who are not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. Another duly registered Member Ondřej Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat myself a bit. We have a great advantage here as a KDU-ČSL club that we do not go to the United States Embassy or the Russian Federation for instructions. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] We're trying to... We're trying to... We're trying to... We're trying to... And neither does the Vatican.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u29	I ask for peace of mind so that we do not interrupt the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u30	We're trying to use our own reason. And I would just like to add to the request made by my colleague Karel Fiedler regarding the request made by Volyňských Čech, because we have registered in the media a statement by Minister Lavrov that ethnic Čech in Ukraine are terrified of the fascist government in Kiev. I asked the Minister, he doesn't have the information. It is strange that our countrymen in Ukraine are complaining with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, that is the first thing. And the second thing is common sense. I remember that when there were armed forces in Crimea and some claimed to be Russian soldiers, this was released as information for Western propaganda. A few days later, Russian President Vladimír Putin said they were Russian soldiers. So I'm curious to see what we'll see in a week or two about all this information that's being issued today as pro-Western propaganda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u31	Thank you, Mr Benešík. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. pardon, with priority rights, Vice-President Filip, followed by Mrs Němcová. I assume that the Minister will speak with the final word after the general debate has been concluded. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u32	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would not have been in any serious pursuit of a speech, but, of course, I am a little concerned about how we are talking about defending national borders, about armed groups that have no legitimacy, and we mix what is completely inappropriate to mix. Firstly, I have already said that I am in full regular contact with the President of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Petr Simoněnk, and I have presented here what they asked us to do at a time when it was very timely. But we adopted a resolution that was more one-sided than dealing with the situation. This was also reflected in the way the European Union acted, because we are part of it. I'm not questioning that. It must be said that last Tuesday, when I was with the President of the Republic, he asked me to write a letter and ask those I can ask in Ukraine to help free the OSCE's detained inspectors. That's what I did. And on Wednesday night, I got back a message from Petr Simoněnko that all the people he had in the Donetsk region came to see both the self-appointed mayor of Slavjansko and other people and planted their voice to make the process happen. On Wednesday evening it was on the Czech TV bar that no one would be released and that they continued to consider them spies. More information has now taken place on Thursday, and I must say that the concentrated pressure of all those who were interested in diplomatic solutions to the matter, whether it is Minister Steinmeier, Minister Lavrov, or those who do not think that it is necessary to further unravel the situation in Ukraine, that it is necessary for individual people who are sent there, either under the flag of the OSCE or for the Council of Europe, or for other associations, or the UN, that they should be detained. Yes, I had information from Wednesday night that they would be released on Saturday. I've also moved this information forward. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] I'm surprised we're talking about what happened in Odessa today. It's obvious. It's been clear since the state power in Ukraine didn't work. Let's face it! The international community admits it, otherwise there would probably be no regular conversations between President Obama, President Putin or Mrs Merkelová and others. It's a real situation. State power doesn't work there. And the state power didn't interfere with the murder of innocent people at the Odessa Union House. That's the real deal. And in this respect, thank you for letting us hear that information. So let's talk about who supported the fascist coup on Maidan. Who supported him? I am no supporter of the former President or illegitimately deposed President of Ukraine. But I'm not a supporter of new power either. In particular, I repeat what I said here during the last negotiations on Ukraine that I consider the European Union to be the most serious mistake that we have not taken a stand, except for the presidential elections in Ukraine to launch parliamentary elections, because this power is illegitimate. She didn't come out of any elections! And ask yourself what you said when the Chamber of Deputies was dissolved when there was a government that did not gain the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies and ruled without that trust. What were the statements of some of you who said that the government was illegitimate and that it should end as soon as possible. It was clear, according to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, that the elections could be announced in 60 days at the earliest and that Parliament would meet in 30 days at the earliest, or at least 90 days another government would be here. I ask which of those who visited Kiev in the time of Maidan wanted new elections to be made. I didn't hear anything like that from you critics of Kateřina's Konečná performance. So please, let's just keep a foot on the international situation. The double standard always comes back. And if we are today, at the time of the celebration of the Prague Uprising 1945, if we are before celebrating victory over fascism in World War II, which is an internationally recognized holiday, because it was the greatest disaster of the 20th century, then we must condemn every fascist move that leads to civil war here. If we are part of the European Union, then the Minister of Foreign Affairs, like the other ministers of the Czech Government at the European Council of Ministers, whether it be the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of Industry and Trade or the Prime Minister, should speak clearly about the fact that we are in favour of a legitimate solution that will be free of further casualties. And if we succeeded, and let us be glad, at the Eastern Partnership meeting here in Prague, that the countries of the European Union and the Eastern Partnership agreed that Ukraine was needed to decentralise, not federalize, because that word was attacked by the President of Poland in order not to be associated with the request of the Russian Federation, well decentralisation and non-military solution, then we cannot condemn the intervention of illegally armed paramilitary groups against the civilian population and the murder of innocent people. I'd really like us to weigh our words here. Yes, the task of the army, as President Schwarzenberg said, is to defend state borders. But the task of the army of a democratic society since 1945 is also to avoid the domestic, internal use of the army. The army cannot be used against the civilian population because it always leads to civil war. And that must be condemned. Because these paramilitary groups have intervened against the civilian population. And if they claim to be a national guard, then this must be condemned and, to be said, we disagree. Therefore, forgive me, without distinction of political conviction or religion, because otherwise we will embezzle our oaths at the Constitution of the Czech Republic. [[16.30 hours]] And that is the essence of the horror that took place in Odessa. hrůza that have no equivalent in the entire territory of Ukraine since 1945. And we're in the 21st century. So what do you want to question? That there wasn't a massacre? We can't be serious. That's not information we could get somewhere, like the Secretary of Defense here reminded us of from some weird e-mail. That's what all the world agencies brought. And the fact that something wasn't broadcast by Czech Television, we've been used to the fact that there's no objective awareness of the situation. So what are we kidding ourselves about? I am glad that the Foreign Minister has brought at least such objective information that we can reach. The fact that we have not learned this from the public media is the subject of negotiations or will certainly be the subject of negotiations by other bodies of this Chamber of Deputies, because even if it is a public institution, the responsibility for how public institutions operate depends on politicians. It depends on the Parliament of the Czech Republic, because we are still in parliamentary democracy. And games of some kind of independent organ and independence mean nothing... the degree to which we may have missed or missed or wanted to abolish a constitutional article that says that all constitutional bodies are being established on the basis of free competition between political parties. The responsibility of political parties, the responsibility of politicians is not only to the laws, to the government, but also to the public space. Please let us be aware of that. So if we have little information, let's ask those who are supposed to give it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u33	I thank Vice-President Filip. Mr. Jaroslav Holík, with a factual remark. Following him with priority rights, President TOP 09 Schwarzenberg, Mrs Němcová, with proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador Holík, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up and thank the words of both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, because, perhaps for the first time, I have heard information that is balanced, because what we have heard on television has been very far-fetched. I would like to reply to my colleague Benešík regarding the Russian crew in Crimea. According to the deal, Russia could have had 25,000 soldiers there. Supposedly, there were 19,000. I don't know if you've been to Crimea or Sevastopol. I do, and I can tell you that there were both Russian cruisers and U.S. cruisers. There's always been talk, there's only Rus, Američan were there at the time, back when I was there, so were they. We have heard many times where we receive information from whom. Since I have a number of friends in Ukraine, in almost every city, I'm getting information from the outside. And who among you can read Russian, I will give it to you - directly Ukrajinec, as they see the situation. So I wouldn't want to stir things up here right now because the situation is sad. A lot of people died. If I go back to that Odessa guy, it wasn't just guys who got shot. There were raped women with burned faces, there were killed children, there were pregnant women killed. And they weren't extremists. So I'd like to ask everyone, let's be a little human, help the ordinary people who paid for it because they deserve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u35	I thank Mr Holík. One more point of fact. [[Mr Schwarzenberg approaches the microphone.]] With a factual point - sorry, Mr President - with a factual remark, Mr Benešík. Sorry, Mr President, I am very sorry - Mr Benešík takes precedence with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr Holík through Mr President. I was referring to unmarked gunmen who became regular soldiers of the Russian army overnight. I didn't mean the crew that could have really been there. So I guess this is where we didn't get along.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u37	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Now Chairman TOP 09 Karel Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u38	Mr President, honourable Members. Yes, it is a good reminder who were the first armed groups without a license plate, without anything that worked in Ukraine. Yes, it would be a good idea to disarm the illegitimate armed forces that occupied various city halls and state buildings today. I'm warm to this disarmament. And if this succeeds, I will be the first to call for the Ukrainian army to withdraw to their barracks. But first order must be established, and Ukrainian authority on Ukrainian territory must be restored, which has been violated by violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another proper application by Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u40	Mr Vice-President, Minister of Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, I hesitated whether or not to take part in this debate, but I believe that she may yet be waiting for us several times, although I am not very happy about it. When we launched it here at the beginning of this year, the Chamber of Deputies reached a resolution which I think is valid and will be valid for the future. So, until Russia surrenders to Crimea and returns it to Ukraine, our resolution on the violation of international law by Russia's violent anexes in relation to Crimea, Ukraine, is valid. And I am glad that the Chamber of Deputies has adopted this resolution. Surely the fact that the situation is escalating in relation to the presidential elections that are coming cannot please any of us. None of us are ready to receive daily reports of how people are murdered, shot, how Ukrainian society radicalizes, and each of us must naturally fear whether such a radicalized society will have an impact on us, who are territorially so close. And if, and this is natural not only in the Chamber of Deputies, but in the whole Czech society, each one of us in our experience, in our rankings, in his upbringing, in what he grew up, he looks at these situations with his optics, and whether he wants to or does not want to, he is partying to one side or the other, so I think that we need not change the resolution we adopted last time, and we can be proud of them. But what needs to be added in relation to today's negotiations - as I say, I fear that we will open this subject several more times if the situation in Ukraine does not calm down before the presidential elections, which we would like to say - so what needs to be added if we ask here about who caused or did not cause it, and we will not know and each of us can lecture on his ideas or what he has studied. We'll probably know from a distance of several years, as it always happens in such cases, when all the evidence, archive materials evaluated by historians are brought together, so we'll be able to talk about it a little bit more rationally than now that our emotions are uplifted as well. But there's one thing I want to add to that. If we are talking about the reasons behind the current state of affairs in Ukraine, with the fact that there is a concern in the subtext whether this unrest will also be passed on to the Czech Republic, which was strengthened by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia Lavrov in me yesterday, when he began to operate with those Czech minorities living in Ukraine, which I already believe is some kind of helping tool for the Russian influence to get on slowly, which I believe is the overall intention of the government's strategy of contemporary Moscow, I would like to add something to that as a support argument that you can find for yourself. It's a 2012 BIS report. It is publicly available and in Chapter III.3, called counter-intelligence, to clarify whether the Czech Republic is in danger, or whether there is a fifth column that is activated, and not only has it been activated very dramatically at a time when the Czech Republic spoke about the adoption or non-acceptance of a proposal to build a missile radar, so whether this group is too active, we can read in this report. [[16.40 hours]] Let me quote: "As in the previous period and for the same reasons, the BIS's intelligence activities of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China were also a priority in the area of counter-espionage in 2012. Both in the case of Russia and Čína, in the reporting context, priority was given to activities aimed at building and strengthening influence capacities in the Czech Republic, particularly in the field of economic and political and economic intelligence. In 2012, the BIS perceived the prolonged problem of the disproportion of personnel and material capacities, particularly in connection with the activities of the Russian state power. From the perspective of the security interests of the Czech Republic, the number of Russian intelligence officers in the ranks of the Russian diplomatic mission or Russian traveling intelligence officers, so-called. tourists, in the Czech Republic for very high. In addition, Russian intelligence services are able to address any personnel problems in the Czech Republic flexibly in the framework of free movement in the Schengen area. The specific areas in which the interests of foreign power are constantly expressed are efforts to control the compatriotic communities." I won't read it any further, please find the message yourself. I just want to add something that we should consider when we think about events in Ukraine in relation to what the Czech Republic has been going through, as has already been mentioned here, and what God forbid it could go through if we were not careful enough in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u41	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. I have two factual points to make. Mr. First Member Jiří Zlatuška. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u42	Mr President, I would like to say that the subject we are discussing is, of course, serious. On the other hand, I still realize that the basic influence that triggered it is Russian influence. The report by the Council of the President of the Russian Federation on the development of civil society and human rights is to be found on the website of the Russian President, this Council. He says that 35 percent of the population voted realisticly in the referendum, it could only be 25 percent, for connection. It is the Russian report of the Council of the President of the Russian Federation Putin. As for Russia's position, I think there is a very encouraging report that has now appeared in the media that Putin has announced that Russia will withdraw 40,000 troops from the border with Ukraine, and has asked for a referendum postponed by the pro-Russian supporters on 11 May. This, I think, is a clear testimony about where that someone could say indirect, someone directly responsible for what happened in Ukraine. And that the pressure that is developing in particular towards Russia bears at least the promise that this could be improved here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u43	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. With another factual remark, Mr Matěj Fichtner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mrs Němcová for basically flipping over the topic of Ukraine, which is at first sight a foreign-policy theme, for turning her into a home environment. Because what should also be heard here is how the Czech Republic should react from the point of view of internal security to what is happening in Ukraine. I think that what has been appointed here means the activities of the intelligence services of the Russian Federation, so that is certainly one of the important topics, and I would like the government to do so. And the second thing that has not yet been said here is, of course, the overall security situation in Europe is changing. She's different than she was years ago. Who is interested, for example, in the military or who is a little close to it and watching, for example, how an army and armaments of the Russian Federation or the Russian army develop, the army that we saw in Ukraine, in Crimea is something completely different from what it was in the 1990s, when it was more or less a semi-disbanded army of the former Soviet Union. Today he has modern technology, modern equipment, top-notch training. So what I think should also be heard here is that Europe as a whole should respond to the assertiveness of the Russian Federation of recent times, which could lead, in my view, to the right direction, for example, to the development of a potential project of a common European army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u45	I thank Mr Fichtner. With another factual remark, Mr Benešík, followed by a proper application by Mr Gabal. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u46	Thank you for the floor. It's all about information, misinformation and interpretation. Putin is pulling soldiers from the Ukrainian border who, according to Putin, aren't there. Very interesting information. Anyway, it's much better, because I was beginning to worry that Vladimir Putin would demand Ukraine to pull its borders away from Russian troops.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u47	Thank you, Mr Benešík. With proper application by Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, when I spoke here on 21 March in the debate on the military annexation of Ukrainian Crimea by Russia, I proposed an increase in defense spending to 1.3 percent next year and to the level of our commitment to NATO by the end of the parliamentary term, i.e. 2%, so that our ability to defend ourselves in the event of the escalation of Russian aggression immediately begins to increase. I consider it essential that the assessment of the situation and my proposal to increase our participation in collective defence were not taken too seriously. The House rejected the proposal and the comments from the executive colleagues stressed that we had different priorities. Only when the Secretary General of NATO, the failing ability of our army to fulfil our obligations, described NATO's assessment and heard the Minister of Defence from the allies openly stating the lack of funding, changed our opinion and we are debating the increase in spending. But what is the situation in Ukraine today, six weeks after the first debate? We are undoubtedly witnessing the massive escalation and expansion of the military conflict in various places in eastern Ukraine near the Russian border. The conflict has already pulled direct and growing fighting activity of the Ukrainian army. Expert analysis speaks of the fact that on the other hand, professionally trained paramilitary groups, if not units with a professional level of armament including air means, and with sufficient material organizational, command and information and intelligence backgrounds, are fighting. This isn't some militia that's got anti-aircraft missiles in the shed at home, or special task force recreational training. We are therefore not witnessing an escalating conflict within Ukrainian society, as propaganda is trying to convince us, but a professionally conducted paramilitary operation in order to destabilize a large part of Ukraine, to challenge its integrity, coherence and, in particular, the ability to organise democratic fair elections with the participation of a sufficient number of international observers. In a few weeks, who would go to observe elections to a country where a professionally escalated armed conflict and violent chaos are taking place and where an armed detention of an international group of military observers under the auspices of the OSCE will take place? The aim of the observation mission was precisely the opposite, i.e. confidence building and controlling the risk of conflict under the Vienna agreement. That is why they had to be detained, intimidated and intimidated by the international public. [[16.50 hours]] We have a massive show of Russian armed forces in Crimea tomorrow, which should close down information on the fixation of statistics on the vote in the so-called "Prime Minister'. a referendum in Crimea to which some of our colleagues have also been staffing to some extent. We are faced with an attempt to legitimize military gerils by their involvement in negotiations on Ukraine's future, and we cannot rule out the revival of a corrupt ex-president who completely disqualified himself by order to shoot civilians and, in particular, by signing the invitation of the Russian military occupation. Do we not have our own historical experience with such practices, including the role of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia? The Western Community will probably continue to intensify sanctions against Russia, because it cannot be seen that it is behind the military destabilisation of eastern Ukraine. Russia will continue to support the paramilitary forces as well as the rendering of the West, including us as demoralized cosmopolitans, supporters of fascism and decadence. Even in an attempt to provoke the illusion that civil war is escalating in Ukraine, which makes it impossible for both the current Kiev government and the holding of democratic elections, and a kind of protectorate to be declared over Ukraine or to be skewed by a new Munich agreement on eastern border regions. So how will we react as a sovereign democratic parliament, witnessing the slow-melting round of military conflict, which can soon hit NATO Member States, and therefore us, and destabilize Europe's economic and social dynamics, if it is not even the main objective? Will we wait idlely, or even suicidally, to take over the Russian interpretation of events and parrot Kremlin propaganda? I think it is appropriate for us to name the situation both towards our citizens and, in particular, our allies and partners, because we have our own historical experience and know more about Moscow's behaviour and practices and on our own. We know what it is to destabilize the paramilitary activity of the borderlands and then take them militaryly and tear them away. I think we must call on Russia to stop Ukraine's military destabilization. We must support and monitor the conduct of free and democratic elections and clearly strengthen the common defence of the West as a step that adequately responds to Russia's threats. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u49	I thank Mr Gabal. At this point, I have no one else in the general debate. If there is no one else but the Minister's rapporteur... Excuse me, Mr. Schwarzenberg... If Mr Schwarzenberg does not want to go into the general debate, I will have to end the general debate. No, that's how President Schwarzenberg wants it. [[He wants a point of fact.]] Please, you have the floor. Your two minutes, if it's a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u50	Since the terms and expressions are confused here, I would like to draw attention to one fact. The driving force behind the German invasion of Russia, under which the Ukrajinec and Bělorus suffered the most, the nations of the Soviet Union that suffered the most, were not fascists, the Italian troops were only auxiliary, but the driving force was the German National Socialist Workers' Party. So please don't call it the Italian name of the German Nazis. I'd just like to point that out. And the same is merely a curse without more justification, if we use the concept of fascists for, I admit, very nationalist Ukrainian parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u51	Thank you to President Schwarzenberg. If no one continues to report to the general debate, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the rapporteur or the minister for the final words. [[Member of the Final Off-Mike: Resolution.]] You will make proposals for the resolution in a detailed debate following the final words of the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u52	Thank you. Have a good evening again. I have to respond to some things because it would be almost impossible not to respond to them, so give me time. The first thing I have to answer is the question that has been raised here, the question of Volyňské Bohemia and even the Čech living in Ukraine. So let me tell you that we are in permanent contact with representatives of the Volyně Bohemia and the compatriotic associations in Ukraine. We've even sent two missions there. The other one came back recently. I myself am trying to get there and arrange a way to visit the country associations. So they assure you that the information we have is almost permanent and we have it fresh and we have it out of direct contact not only with the representatives, but even with the citizens we invite, who will meet to talk to them. So what I'm saying is more accurate than any minister of any other country around us. And I am simply telling you that what we have heard from the Čech living in Ukraine and what seems important to me is that everyone is telling us very loudly that they do not feel that they would be threatened by the Ukrajinec who live among them! And they say that very loudly and very clearly. That they don't feel threatened by the environment, the Ukrajinec they're among. There is no tension between Čech and Ukrajinec! Because if anyone wants to run away from somewhere, as you understand, they're running away because the environment is mostly oppressing them. Please, the Čech who live there clearly rule out! And they say it's nonsense, and they have no indication that they don't feel at home in that environment. That has to be clear. And I think that's important. Of course they're not excited about the environment today. That your mother will tell you that she's worried about her son being taken away and mobilized. And that they're afraid of what's going to happen. But they don't like Čech, they're scared like everyone else who's there. Who can tonight... Let's say we have some Čech in Zitomir, but we also have Čech in the eastern part of the south, so they're actually almost even more in the epicenter. And, of course, who would like to be in Eastern Ukraine today in such an environment? Of course, they're afraid in that sense. I would like to assure you in what has been repeated several times that the Czech Republic provides these our compatriots with a simplified way to apply for permanent residence in the Czech Republic. And the visits we're making are actually related to reminding them that there are forms they can fill out. There's just a simple, simple way for them. If needed, they can apply for permanent residence and in simplified procedure we will do so. And I can tell you, and if the Minister of the Interior were here, he would repeat it to you that there is no surge of Čech from Ukraine to the Czech Republic. As convenient as that possibility really is, simple for me, it exists. It doesn't exist, there's no increased tide, there's no tendency. On the contrary, it almost dropped. So that's the reality. And, of course, we're ready, if something happens, if there's really a threat, and if they can't stand it and they're at risk on their lives, then of course we're ready to help. But I'm just telling you, no matter how scared they are, no matter how scared they are and they're dissatisfied with what's going on in there, it's not like they want to run away. Plus, we're interested in making Ukraine stable. Our initial interest is to make choices there to stabilize it so that it can live there. Our interest is not to organize the transport of Čech from Ukraine. Do you understand? That's what we do when everything's lost. Of course, that's the last thing we want. [[17,00 hours]] So they have the option, we're offering it, and at this point, no matter how much they don't like what's going on in there, it doesn't mean they're going to mass or even see a single solution in coming back here. I think that's the context of the situation, and I would like it to be respected, because no one has more information at this point, and I don't think he has a better idea of this than we do, and no one can tell us how the Čech live there from anywhere else. That's what we know best. I'm just standing on it. Another thing I'd say. I heard Vojtěch Filip, who asked: "Who of you who was in Kiev was there talking about parliamentary elections? " I can answer that very simply. When I was in Kiev with Slovak Minister Miro Lajčák and János Martonyi, Minister of Hungary, we were in this trio of ministers when we spoke with Prime Minister Jaceňuk, part of it was that we all asked him to make elections. And we wanted to guarantee presidential elections and parliamentary elections! We specifically talked about parliamentary elections. It was the subject of all important negotiations, including negotiations that we had with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. In this, we also perceived that a similar procedure, if the newly elected president had prepared an election in the fall, would be the best way to stabilise Ukraine. On the other hand, let me say that I cannot agree with the wording: "Who of you supported the fascist coup on Maidan?" I'll explain why. Because a fascist coup would mean that fascists have come to power. And I can tell you, my friends, that I have carefully been going over my resumes and references to all the ministers of the Jaceňukův government. Because when I go there and I deal with some of them quite regularly, I wouldn't fucking deal with any fascists! And I'm telling you, I didn't find any of those ministers in his résumé, in the data I collected about him, that I would say to myself that he was a person who was involved with some proto-fascist organization or something. I didn't find one. If I'd known, I'd have brought it. I have it processed as a text - all the ministers of the Jaceňukův government. I've got their analysis in there. And I could read to you here one by one. And I'd ask you, "Tell me the one you can say he's involved," and I'd like to hear that name. I didn't find him! Why do you say fascist coup if they're not fascists? Of course, we know that there are tendencies in Ukraine - banders, that there are these proto-fascist movements. When you look at the preferences, these dangerous right-wing ingredients have 2-3 percent preferences in their preferences. These are numbers. I met them repeatedly - 2-3 percent. It's the reality of the situation. When I look next door to Germany, how many neo-Nazis in Germany, Saxony, and so on - I think they have 7 percent. So it's all the past that's here, but I just can't agree to say that the whole Maidan is fascist. That's nonsense, my friends! I am deeply convinced that most of the people who were manifesting at Maidan were disgusted by the conditions in Ukraine, disgusted by the way they ruled, by the corruption that worked there so that 2 million euros were paid for as Deputy Minister, that even bribes were paid for wanting to go to school, virtually everywhere. This system of corruption-eating countries was something that disgusted them the way the regime disgusted us before November 1989. But it's probably more dramatic and rusty in there today. And these people said "no!" and it was probably the most of them. I am deeply convinced of that. And that there were groups that you're referring to, we'd probably find them there. I'm not questioning it. But let's not say it was a fascist Maidan. To me, this seems deeply unfair to students and all those who read verses in the cafes every night and read Ševčenko Shevchenko and so on. They weren't fucking fascists! So let's not simplify it. I don't like the way it all simplifies. I'm trying to be as precise as possible in my performances. Things that are often not black and white don't simplify. And I wish we weren't doing it either. Because it feels like we're not getting anywhere by simplifying. I told you here today that I think the problem of this conflict is, of course, also that there is a great degree of distrust on both sides. There's a great deal of distrust, sometimes I even think there's a misunderstanding. Because they don't trust each other completely, they push their own reasons and stuff. That's a bad atmosphere where it's hard to reach an agreement. Geneva went wrong, but I don't want to say that he's not fit to sit at the table. I'm not going to say he's a fraud in advance, because I see no other way for Ukraine than to re-create a lineup that sits at the table looking for a diplomatic way out of this. And I believe that Europe can do one thing in the long run at this point. Europe must be able, as has been said here, to make things clear, precisely, unmistakable, to be able to unite in what we say about this as a Member State of the European Union, and to respond to it by a policy that is clear and understandable. I believe that whatever is happening at our borders will be important in the long term, how the European Union will stand up in all crises, if we can respond to the crisis, the economic and political crisis with Ukraine. How strong we come out of this will decide our fate, as well as not only Europe, but also the Czech Republic. I would like to participate in the creation of a strong single opinion of the European Union, as well as in the situation of a political crisis such as Ukraine. That's why I'm trying to be careful and accurate. I don't know if I'm doing well, but I thank the House if it helps me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u53	Thank you, Minister. I am opening the debate in detail, in which I am currently registering the Mrs Konečná's application. Please, madam, you have the floor. After that, Mr Pavel Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me, because I did not want to abuse my role as rapporteur, so that I would not be instructed to briefly justify that I am very glad that we had the opportunity to hear any position from the Czech Government, on behalf of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That was exactly what we asked for, because it really, and I think it was a big mistake of Czech diplomacy, there was five days of silence after what was happening. And that should happen to us, even as a middle country, should not, and should, at least as strongly as we express ourselves on these matters anywhere else in the world. That was also why we wanted to open this debate. I do not want to comment on how some colleagues have abused it for their own ambitions or solutions to various news reports or other reports, but we really wanted to be able to talk about this matter. I therefore, because my colleague from social democracy will propose a resolution in agreement which condemns this situation as we wished, but I do not want to copy it, so I will propose another resolution, and this is what I was talking about in conclusion and which was actually referred to by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and this is the role of the OSCE in this whole matter: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to call on the Member States of the European Union and the Russian Federation to recognise the OSCE's arbitration role in the resolution of the conflict in Ukraine." I really think that at this point, we don't have any other independent international organization that all parties involved could respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u55	Thank you, Mistress Konečná. With priority rights, Mr. Foreign Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u56	I may just say briefly that I made a public statement yesterday about what happened in Odessa, but I take it as a reminder to maybe make it even more clear next time. And I've also been counting on it to admit that it's going to be discussed in the House, and I thought it wasn't worth doing a press conference, and I figured it would be an opportunity to do it again in the House. On the other hand, if there is an interest in the public hearing these things clearly for the Czech Republic, I agree with that in principle, and therefore I do not want to argue too much. I will be even more clear next time and I will try to spread it even more widely - opinions for the Czech Republic on similar situations. As far as the role of the OSCE is concerned, let me just remind you that as far as what happened in Kiev is concerned, as far as I know, the Ukrainian government itself has agreed to use the International Criminal Tribunal to resolve what happened in Kiev. I would just like to remind you that this is another option, which is in such a case if Ukraine agreed to do so. I am reluctant to the resolution because I think it would be good to know Ukraine's position. [[17.10 hours]] At this point, it's being investigated by the special team I was talking about. At the same time, the OSCE is an international organisation that has members and which I would also - in fact, I am not sure that the OSCE would even want to do it. That is not clear to me, and there may be different opinions about it. I am prepared for myself to discuss the role of the OSCE in such a matter, and under certain circumstances I think it may also be an agreement that we could promote it. Now it seems to me that the House's resolution without knowing Ukraine's position or knowing whether the OSCE wants to be involved in this matter at all, it seems to me that it is not yet sufficiently substantiated. That is why I am restrained from this motion for a resolution, but it is not something that I would scream out loud about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u57	Thank you, Minister. With the factual remark of Mrs Konečná, then with the proper application by Mr Gabal. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u58	Thank you. I just, Minister, through Mr President, we asked the government to call on them to discuss this, in some way, to look for the way forward, to know what you might be planning to do, or to give you some road maps in where you have to move. But I was more struck by your words about the OSCE. So what's the point of this organization if it's not supposed to deal with these situations? I have always been convinced of the OSCE that it is this organisation when it fails and unilaterally engages in the conflict of another type of organisation and of the Council of Europe with its resolution, as well as the European Union, that it is the OSCE that must play the international intermediary. And I can't imagine what else she'd be up to?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u59	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u60	All right, I'll respond to that one more time. Look, imagine that something would happen in the Czech Republic, that something would happen here, there were 50 dead, and someone would tell you that the OSCE would come here and investigate. So what I'm saying is that if I wanted the OSCE to investigate this matter, and I told you that at this point Ukraine is investigating it, then you, as a representative of the Czech Republic, obviously saw it as a kind of distrust that the Czech Republic was able to investigate it itself. That is why I said that, in the case of Kiev, it was Ukraine that agreed to take on the investigation regime by the International Criminal Tribunal. But it was agreed with Ukraine. And so would I, if the Ukrajinec were to say "we don't feel strong enough to do it, we'll be glad if the OSCE helps us with it," so it's a much clearer way than when the Czech Republic says, "OBSE, enter, investigate, Ukraine will never make it alone." But at this point, I respect that Ukraine is claiming to investigate, I do not have a sign from it that it would want the OSCE to step in and help it. I would not want this to be pitted against one another, it is not pre-negotiated and I do not even know what the OSCE Member States' view is. Maybe Russia will tell you that it will veto, that it just doesn't agree with it. Unfortunately, I don't know at this point, and I don't have the minimum pre-negotiated. I'm warning you, the OSCE is an international organisation, we're suggesting she goes somewhere - but if we find out tomorrow that she's not interested? She's got a lot of work to do. Please note that we have an OSCE observation mission in Ukraine, which I believe is very important, it is an important instrument that we have there. Now the question is whether the OSCE should investigate there to what extent it corresponds to the fact that it is doing the independent, objective, observation mission. I think these are things that need to be figured out. For myself, I'm telling you that at this point, I can't imagine that I'm bothered by the fact that Ukraine, Ukraine, hasn't been talked about it, it's a matter for me that's for the next debate. I'm telling you, I'm being modest about this proposal, and I'm making arguments for you. I'm not telling you you're all wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u61	Thank you, Minister. Another duly signed up is Mr Holík, followed by Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has presented a broad, detailed report on the current situation in Ukraine and the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the massacre in Odessa. I, if you don't mind, would like to make a motion for a resolution here, which states: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic condemns the violence that took place on 2 May in Odessa and calls for an impartial examination and punishment of the guilty. Furthermore, he expresses deep regret over the tragic events in Odessa and expresses his condolences to the survivors." Thank you for adopting this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u63	I thank Mr Holík. With another proper application, Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u64	In addition to that, I would historically remind you of what Viennese arbitration in Europe was used to separate territories. And if we want to play with this, I'd really warn you about it. But I would like to propose a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies supports the holding of free democratic elections in Ukraine and calls on the OSCE to send a sufficient observation mission'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u65	Another duly signed up is Mrs Konečná, after which is the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u66	I just have to respond to the Minister, because maybe he didn't understand the text of my.... [[The microphones have stopped working. After a while, everything's fine.]] Thank you. I also said, at the end of my speech, that we want it not only to be about testing the massacre in Odessa, but also about bringing the welding parties to the negotiating table. The fact that the OSCE is sending a mission there, that it is huge, like NATO, the European Union, to monitor elections, we all know that, Mr Gabal through the President. The election's in 15 days. Everyone here today will tell you who's going, and it's been getting ready for a long time. We don't have to approve. But we would like to highlight the role of the OBSE. Unless, of course, the OSCE accepts it, it is another matter. But I can't imagine at this point because - who's investigating today? One side of the conflict. Who's gonna respect that? Unfortunately, that is the situation in Ukraine today. There's just no way out there without interfering with the one I was talking about. So it was just the essence of what we wanted to accept by our statement or our resolution. For us as Čech, because I really think that Čech can play a very significant role in this, if they can do it, between Ukraine and Russia, we can historically do it, so if we don't take it the wrong way, then I think we can be the ones who will propose these very statements, and both sides will start to respect them. It is we Čech who are still so perceived in international law for the time being.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u67	Thank you, Mistress Konečná. With priority rights, the Minister, after whom Mr Šarapatka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u68	I think the House will decide by vote. But perhaps one thing I would like to argue with Mrs Kateřina Konečná. When she said that the resolution proposed by Mr Gabal, when she said that the Chamber of Deputies wishes for parliamentary elections, I would not say that this resolution is a statement of something that would be something that is obvious. It seems to me that what really matters in Ukraine today is the choice. This means a political statement that we support democratic elections in Ukraine, and I think that political statements are quite important. And even in a performance by Vojtěch Filip, if I recall him, it was also that he said he called after the election. And I don't think if the election doesn't happen, it's just gonna be a disaster. Do you understand? If the elections in Ukraine fail to be prepared, we simply enter a period of chaos, prolonged chaos, in which we threaten what will happen. So the elections are really a cornerstone, and so to me a resolution, a political statement from the House calling for elections to be in Ukraine, seems like a political statement with everything worth voting for. So I would quite support this. Elections really are the cornerstone and the key thing today. And I've heard from more than one side that it's a match, so I wouldn't mind if this House voted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u69	I thank the Minister. Now, with a proper application, Mr Šarapatka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present here the motion for a resolution of the Úsvit movement: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls for all political forces in Ukraine to stop violence and open negotiations in cooperation with the European Union, the United States and the Russian Federation. The aim of the negotiations must be to enable Ukrainian citizens to express their views on state-law arrangements within Ukraine and the free choice of political representation of the country in individual areas. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic also calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to advocate an international and independent examination of the massacre which took place on 2 May in Odessa and to conduct an investigation into the security situation in which our countrymen in Ukraine have now found themselves." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u71	I thank Mr Šarapatek. Since I don't have a shorthand course, I would like to ask him if he could bring me the text of the resolution here. Thank you. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If no one, I will end the debate in detail. I am asking the Minister's final words, or the rapporteur's. The Minister is not interested in the final word. We will therefore vote on resolutions. I'm going to call our colleagues from the lobby and sum up what we're going to vote on. First, we have a resolution by Mrs Konečný, Mr Holík's resolution, Mr Gabal's resolution, and the last motion for a resolution is the Dawn of Direct Democracy, which was presented by Mr Šarapatka. I will always read the resolution slowly so that we know what we are voting on. I've got a request for your check-out, so I'm gonna check everyone out first, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your voting cards. First of all, we will vote on the resolution proposed by Mrs Konečná. The resolution states: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to call on the Member States of the European Union and the Russian Federation to recognise the OSCE's arbitration role in the resolution of the conflict in Ukraine." I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 90-order vote, 148 Members and Members registered, for 50, against 66. The motion was not accepted. We will also vote on the resolution proposed by Mr Pavel Holík. The resolution consists of two parts and says: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic condemns the violence that took place on 2 May in Odessa and calls for an impartial examination and punishment of the guilty. He also expresses deep regret over the tragic events in Odessa and expresses his condolences to the survivors." I am opening the vote on this resolution. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 91-order vote, 152 Members of Parliament signed in for 143, against 2. This motion for a resolution has been adopted. We will also vote on the resolution proposed by Mr Ivan Gabal. The resolution states: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic supports the holding of free and democratic elections in Ukraine and calls on the OSCE to send a sufficient number of election observers." I am opening the vote on this resolution. Who's in? Who's against it? It is the number 92 vote, 153 Members and Members, for 152, against no one. This motion for a resolution has also been adopted. The last resolution on this point on which we will vote is the resolution by Mr Šarapatka of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, who says: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls for all political forces in Ukraine to stop violence and open negotiations in cooperation with the European Union, the United States of America and the Russian Federation. The aim of the negotiations must be to enable Ukrainian citizens to express their views on state-law arrangements within Ukraine and the free choice of political representation of the country in individual areas. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic also calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to advocate an international independent examination of the massacre which took place on 2 May in Odessa, and to conduct an investigation into the security situation in which our countrymen in Ukraine have now found themselves, or take steps to ensure security." I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 93, registered by 151 Members of Parliament, for 55, against 48. This resolution was rejected. That is how we dealt with the resolutions. I announce that Mr Holík and Mr Gabal's resolution has been adopted. That concludes this point. Minister with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u72	I just want to thank you for today's debate. Everywhere I say that in the Czech Republic today we are able to agree on important things in foreign policy. I'm glad the debate looked like it today. Thank you for her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u73	I thank the Minister and hand over the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-020-092.u74	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue today's negotiations, with an adjourned item number
