ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u1	81. The Government's draft law amending certain laws in relation to the establishment of access to and supervision of banks, savings and credit cooperatives and securities traders (deed printing 108/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I therefore point out that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. I ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Babiš, to present this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled amending certain laws in relation to the establishment of access to and supervision of the activities of banks, savings and credit cooperatives and securities traders has been prepared by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the 2013 legislative work plan of the Government. The reason for submitting the draft law is the implementation of the European Directive on access to the business of credit institutions and prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, referred to as CRM IV Directive, and the Regulation on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms, referred to as the CRR Regulation. The aim of the adaptation contained in this Directive and the regulation is to strengthen the regulatory framework and to create conditions for ensuring stability, security and sufficient resilience of the banking sector and the entire financial system. The aim is also to strengthen the protection of consumers' interests, to modernise prudential rules and to strengthen cooperation between supervisory authorities. Let me now briefly summarize some of the changes that the bill brings with it. The most important are the introduction of capital reserves, whose holdings may be required by the Czech National Bank in order to strengthen the capital amenities of banks, credit unions and securities traders. The competences for the application of remedies and sanctions are also strengthened, and there are also prerequisites for deeper cooperation between supervisory authorities. The draft law introduces requirements that must be met by members of the statutory body and supervisory body, respectively by the board of directors of the institution. There is also a restriction on the compatibility of a number of executive and non-executive functions in the bodies of other legal entities and new requirements are introduced for the institution's management and control system. The subject of administrative punishment will be newly also natural persons. I would also mention the anchoring of the possibility of declaring unethical or illegal practices, so-called. whistleblowing. Institution workers are also allowed to report the infringement internally through a special communication channel, which the institution is obliged to implement. Last but not least, those parts of the amended legislation which contain requirements that are newly regulated by the regulation, which is directly applicable by law, are being deleted and therefore these requirements cannot continue to be left to national law. Finally, let me point out that the date from which the effective national legislation implementing the directive and the regulation is to be implemented was set at 1 January 2014. It is therefore necessary for the proposed law to take effect as soon as possible, otherwise the Czech Republic is in danger of being punished for failing to comply with the obligations arising from membership of the European Union. In addition, the CRR is directly applicable to the EU Regulation, which will be effective from 1 January 2014, and it is therefore necessary that the Czech legislation be adapted to this Regulation as soon as possible. In this context, I would also like to point out that the Government has adopted a resolution on this law in which the House has been proposed to discuss the bill so that it can be agreed with at first reading. Mr President, honourable Members, in the light of the above, I ask you to give your consent to the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Dolejš to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u4	Thank you for the floor, and my dear colleagues, I'll take your appropriate voice, but I'll try to wake you up a little bit, though I understand it's Friday after lunch. [[Jollyness in the Hall]] Well, someone hasn't eaten yet, but it's at least noon, and some people are eating at noon, so I hope I just woke you up a little bit, maybe it went over the stomach, but most importantly, it hits the head. Please, now we have a press on the table, which seems to be leaking through Parliament, because we are sometimes such a flow heater of Brussels legislation. Well, it's an important source of our right, but sometimes it's good to read what we approve, and if we should vote today at first reading and essentially vote for the press, which, for your information, who you haven't touched, has about 400 pages, I won't be trying to see who read it, but I don't think many of you know what it's all about. He's a little bit of a piece of mosaic, or if you want buildings born of a banking union. And this is a difficult debate, because it concerns a sector that decides many things, both in a positive sense, that means it fulfils the role of money in the economy and in the negative sense, because in Europe, I would say, the relationship between Europe's debt crisis and the state of the banking sector is very obvious to all of us. Europe, or the monetary zone, has therefore decided to build gradual steps for the banking union, and those fundamental pillars or building blocks are the unification of supervisory mechanisms, this is the SMS mechanism, where, in particular, the January decision of the European Commission has added an interesting moment and this is the direct control of the supervisory institution, i.e. the European supervisory institutions, key banks. It is defined as big banks that have around EUR 30 billion of assets and are, as they say, big to fail, it means big to fall, but unfortunately they are expensive to be saved. And that, of course, is a problem. [[12.40 hours]] The second such building element is structural reform of the entire resort, i.e. the financial resort. And here we have a little problem, how the burden of developing the banking sector will be divided, where certain concentrations occur, etc., some banks may even fall, we have already experienced this during the crisis in 2009 and 2012, and how the burden will be shared between private banking insurance, which is even being built together in Europe, and between the fact that we all have a European bailout mechanism, which we all pay ourselves from taxes, and thus the burden will be passed on to taxpayers. And of course, there's a third moment that's been going on for a long time. Perhaps those who were a little bit interested in finance will tell them something about the name of the Basel platform that comes up with the relevant guidelines. Basel II was adopted in Europe in 2006, I think in 2010, Europe prepared a new Basel III standard, which, of course, increases certain parameters in response to the crisis, that its introduction and gradual implementation will, of course, very much differentiate the banking sector itself. And the response to the introduction of this Basilean standard III is also this directive, which, of course, implements not directly this standard, but through a European directive, a European regulation, or a European regulation. adaptation of certain other standards. The fact that the Vice Prime Minister here reminded us that time is short and the water is rising is true. In the last parliamentary term, we knew it was coming. This was not such a surprise, and people from the CNB came to us, from the Ministry of Finance specifically I mean Deputy Urban, and others from the financial sector, the Banking Academy, to somehow educate us in what will come. The problem is that the directive itself was born in June 2013 and it was at that time that we started to rock the government, we disbanded Parliament, and so finally approved the definitive form by the end of the year I suspect, or even in January, the provisional Rusnokův government and it is coming here with a delay, because the effectiveness of the standard was to be introduced after six months, which is quite quickly for such a standard, and now you have to sort of approve it in that Friday lunchtime sweet moment. I don't want to drip too much tar into that sweet moment, but let me remind you of a few moments that may be worth thinking about. The entire mechanism of stronger prudential measures has been mentioned here, especially as regards capital reserves. The bankers themselves state, and it is not surprising that the Czech Republic is in a specific situation in the sense that our banks are better equipped with capital than elsewhere in the world. That is true, but it can be said that for most, and that word most is important to the party, for most, let's say the standard of capital reserves will not be such a problem when it starts from April 2014. Other prudential measures introduce a countercyclical reserve obligation, which is an additional reserve, which should basically be introduced to exposures to risk countries, thereby increasing the intensity, and here we can say that the current situation of our exposure in risk countries is not so serious, that is so true, so far the big banks have somehow dealt with it in their balance sheets, but let us imagine that Europe will go into a sluice, so it will start running, and that even the lending of our very cautious banks will increase. And so, logically, the exposition will increase, because the southern wing of the EU and the European zone are still staggering in certain problems, and suddenly we find that other percentages of prudential parameters are already a much greater burden. That is, as regards some parameters of prudential measures, which the Minister has, of course, discussed here. I don't just want to mechanically reproduce them. Otherwise, there are interesting moments. For example, a new indicator is introduced. the leverage ratio, which is a completely new parameter. Fortunately, it will be launched with a time delay, but it is already written there despite the fact that there has not yet been an impact analysis carried out by the European Banking Association. And then they follow the liquidity standards that, since 2015, which have shifted the effectiveness of these changes, should generate stocks in the case of a liquid crisis. The whole package of measures is simply creating demands that will vary in terms of individual segments of the financial sector, and that is why it will be interesting to see how the professional public, sector leaders, and of course this has to do with the debate on what kind of financial architecture we really want to build in Europe, because, if I recall correctly, the final Governor-General Mr Singer said that while he perceives that the eurozone is building a banking union, we do not want to go to this union exactly twice, and that we would therefore like to maintain a certain, I would say, specific position towards the newly built institutions. It also has a little bit to do with the fact that there is one interesting moment in this proposal that is related to centralization of supervisory institutions, and that is that responsibility for the exercise of supervision from the authority of the host State should be transferred to the authorities of the home state. This is of special importance to us, because, as you probably know, our banking sector, apart from the fact that it is almost all in foreign hands, the key banks, the big four, of course, take the form of a subsidiary. But in certain circumstances the transformation into branches may mean that, on the one hand, certain, say, balance sheet movements can occur, which are easier because, in the case of subsidiaries, it is blocked, I would say, and secondly, of course, there may be an asymmetry of responsibilities and responsibilities. So these are for some example, I would say, sensitive moments, which in that huge package are roughly four pages so that you have a little bit of an illustration on Friday. [[correctly 400 pages]] And I'm a little worried that we're almost discussing such an extensive amendment at first reading, even though it's clear to me that April 1 is behind the door and the legislative process has its essentials, but the question is whether there's a greater risk of that infringement, when we've been in this situation more than once, and yet it didn't start the day after. After all, Brusel has its own paces and procedures. Perhaps the more serious problem is that we would find ourselves in an uncomfortable situation different from the rest of Europe. It's a matter of effects, but they're not being discussed twice in the explanatory report. In summary, and when I highlight the specific role of the financial sector of the Czech Republic, when we are actually owned by strangers and yet we have a creditor role towards those mothers, with all due respect for them, I may also have some saved crown somewhere for old age, so I just think it is too serious a problem to throw it off the table so easily. He will, of course, show up at the vote. I just wanted to draw your attention to this problem and make some sensitive points clear to you, which is perhaps the role of the rapporteur, without bringing in any too strong ideological tones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have Mr. Kalousek's application here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposed here with a request to approve it at first reading is the output of almost three years of intensive debate on EU soil, whether in the individual COREPPERs, IFCs or the Council of Finance Ministers. I have been involved in this debate many times, and I stand behind this compromise, because what is being presented to you right now is more or less a compromise between individual Member States in the European Union, which have committed themselves to implementing this legislative framework into their legal order. However, I consider it completely excluded that the national parliament on Friday afternoon, with all due respect for the ability to absorb the information you are receiving, so knowing that not everyone has read and discussed this carefully, from the language of reference, knowing that the petitioner is not entirely aware of what this is about, the government will say - approve it because that is what the European Union wants us to do, and we should have it for 1. 4. implemented. I just don't think I can. I believe that this proposal is necessary in the context of the common security of the common financial market in Europe. I believe that it is to be implemented into the Czech legal system. However, I am also convinced that the Czech Parliament should say: we want to approve this because it is good for the citizens of the Czech Republic. That it cannot say what the government is actually saying to us with the procedural proposal: you should approve it quickly, because that is what the European Union wants us to do. That's the worst thing the government could do. I therefore dare, on behalf of the TOP 09 and ODS, to veto the approval in an accelerated reading while at the same time warning the petitioners against proposing a shortening of the deadline. I have been a direct participant in very intensive and very complex debates that lasted for almost three years at European Union level. I think that there is no excessive deadline for the national parliament for 60 days to say yes after the 60 days of committee discussion, because this legal standard is in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and not as the government - and the first vice-president will surely forgive us - says slightly ignorantly: please approve this because the implementation term is hanging over us. I would like to veto, I would like to ask that we do not reduce the deadline, while at the same time I would like to say that I support this compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u7	Thank you. The Minister of Finance is interested in speaking. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u8	I had three laws here, and I've been waiting all week to present them. I was told this morning it would be Tuesday. Among other things, I have also apologized from the House meeting since 12.45 because I have a foreign visit. I am innocent of this, and I am a postman here because I do not understand Mr Kalousek, through the President. On the one hand, he's been talking about it for three years, it's great, and on the other hand, it's vetoing. This material was discussed by Mr. Rusnok's government on January 22. I do not understand why this is being vetoed when we are in danger of being punished by the European Union. On the other hand, the Member recommends this, so, of course, we can discuss this here for a year. If the penalty is financial, I hope someone pays for it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u9	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u10	Through the President of the Chamber of Deputies - you, Mr First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance, are not a postman. You are the representative of the government of the Czech Republic, which has emerged from legitimate elections, and you are responsible to this Chamber of Deputies. And you put every bill you make here on your political responsibility, and we will consider the extent to which political responsibility is felt seriously or not. If you feel your role as a postman, please go to the Czech Post Office. If you want to be the first Vice-President of the Government of the Czech Republic, act as Vice-President of the Government of the Czech Republic, who will appear before this Chamber of Deputies whenever she considers it appropriate, not when you will have the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u11	Vice-President of the Government, then Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u12	I understand the House has been talking about everything for a long time. We can talk about that, too. I'm sure there'll be a lot of speakers here. And I'm putting forward a proposal that Mr Kalousek, former Minister of Finance, has been discussing for three years. I don't understand. Either I'm abnormal or I don't get it. I submit Mr Kalousek's law, through the President, for three years he has discussed it, recommends it, but vetoes it. I don't know. I don't understand it all, so I'm sorry. And I will certainly serve the House whenever I am called upon to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u13	Mr Volný, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u14	Mr President, government, fellow Members, if I have good information about this proposal, it is indeed a law that came from the European Union centrally, and we still do not have much chance of entering and making any major adjustments. If we once set out to be in the European Union, we should respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u15	Chairman Kalousek. I'm just gonna ask, "Really or properly?" [[Properly.]] Properly. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u16	Thank you. Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, you have presented two alternatives here... When the club presidents agree, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u17	Mr. President of the Dawn Club, please. President Fiala, President Kalousek insists that he will continue his speech only after you have finished the consultation with the rapporteur. We have to wait. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u18	But I could wait even longer, I didn't want to chase you. Mr First Vice-President of the Government, you have stated as two possible options that (a) you are either not normal or (b) you do not understand. I would like to point out, according to the principles of logic, that these variations are not mutually exclusive. [[Laughs of some Members.]] However, I stress that I am not in charge of this law. I stress that I support him. That I want to give you my testimony that it is really the result of almost three years of intense and very complicated debate at the level of all the European Union states, and I reiterate my support for this compromise. But what clearly did not happen to the Vice-President of the Government, and now I leave it to his discretion whether because he is not normal or because he does not understand it - he did not realize that we are extremely concerned that this national parliament has a chance to really get to know it and to come to the view as a representative of its constituents that the approval of this law is good because it is good for the Czech Republic and its residents. That we don't approve of the law because they sent it to us from the European Union and now we're going to 1. 4. we must approve, because we have nothing else to do. There is an absolutely fundamental fundamental difference, which the Vice-President obviously does not understand, for whatever reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u19	I have several applications here now. I have here a factual remark from Mr Schwarz, who is withdrawing it. Then he was the rapporteur, then Minister Dienstbier and then Minister of Finance. Assuming they're all proper applications. Seriously. Please, Mr. Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u20	I don't have ambition to go into this duel of the former and future, virtually. Designed minister. I just wanted to point out - first of all, those who believe that what Brusel is doing is doing well, it is possible, but you might wonder how in the framework of implementation, I would say Czech home improvements will hang on to similar standards. It just happens. Secondly, if colleagues on the right do not withdraw their veto, we may not be able to do much about it, so I have to remind you that perhaps the right committee, which should, above all, discuss it, is the Committee on Budgets. So I'd like to propose a hearing on the budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u21	Thank you. Minister Dienstbier, then Deputy Prime Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my point is rather factual, because there has been talk about what we must or do not have to do because it has come from Europe. I would like to point out that Europe itself does not order us anything, because we are part of the European Union. And if we are discussing any transposition here, including this one, it is probably because the then Minister of Finance voted in favour of this and took over this commitment. So that is what we have ordered ourselves as part of the European Union to implement the transposition of relevant legal standards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u23	The Minister of Finance has the floor, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u24	I want to say that I really admire the political skill of Mr Kalousek, who speaks of the interest of citizens. I think that the citizens of this country have been pursuing Mr Kalousek's political career since 1994 - or I do not know when he approved the parachutes - and its overall development. I'm sure they're all touched and wiped away the tears, and I'm sure now they're... The good that the Minister has in mind has shown us in recent years. That's why TOP 09 had as many votes in the election as she had. I'm not doing this anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u25	President Kalousek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u26	Yes, thank you. I signed up for Minister Dienstbier's comment. On the comment of the Minister of Finance, perhaps it is only that he was not surprised, especially in the remark about parachutes he lied, as is always his custom. It's just not true. However, I agree with Minister Dienstbier. It's true. We agreed to this as part of Europe, but then the Minister of Finance and then the Prime Minister agreed to persuade the Czech Parliament to vote in favour of something that is in the interests of Czech citizens, as citizens who are part of the European space, not that someone here would arrogantly say: it came from Europe, you should approve it and don't even think about it. That's not the point. We simply want to convince you, in the 60-day debate, that this is the right thing to do, because we have agreed to this in a European debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u27	The President of the ODS Club shall make a factual statement. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u28	I just want to remind you that the government MPs aren't blaming us for anything on purpose. We scored that point yesterday. He wasn't on the agenda at all. Yesterday. It's 400 pages, and you want us to vote blindly today. We just said it wasn't originally on the agenda, it could have been, it wasn't that we wanted to take the time to study it. Nothing more, nothing less. I don't know which one of you had time to read it overnight. We didn't have that time, we haven't had enough of it since yesterday, when it was included, until today, so we can't vote for it with a calm conscience at first reading. We don't want to vote against it because we didn't have time to read it. We want to read it, we may not have any amendment, it is quite possible, but at this point we simply are not able to say it responsibly. Some of you have read it, I understand it, but they obviously knew it was coming yesterday, that there would be a proposal to add it to the program. That's all. Thirty days or sixty days will certainly not endanger us in any way. At least we can - or you can pretend to read it after 30 days. This way, when we found out yesterday, you heard from the Minister how many pages it has, so I don't want to try how many of us have been able to read hundreds of pages until today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u29	Yes. The chairman of the club ANO Faltýnek applied. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u30	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we shorten the deadline to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u31	Thank you. I'm registering and we'll vote on it. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, as a government coalition, I'm sure you have enough votes to vote on President Faltýnek's amendment. I just want to ask you a rhetorical question, and please answer it yourself. If the European Union itself needed almost three years to reach this conclusion, is it really necessary for the national Parliament to shorten that deadline from 60 to 30 days? The Minister of Finance's talk of infringement is in all due respect for the position he holds, only Col. Even our allies within the European Union understand that quality takes precedence over speed, and that if we come to a conclusion within 60 days that we can stand by ourselves without using the usual cliché and the alibi excuses "well, it is what the European Union wants us to do" - this is exactly the worst argument any Evropan can make. I'm begging you, let's take 60 days seriously. Again, in very difficult and sophisticated discussions, we have reached the conclusion for almost three years at the level of the Council of Ministers of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-14-ps2013-006-08-013-081.u33	I will ask if there are other applications for the debate. If not, I am ending the general debate. I note that there were two vetoes during it, so we cannot discuss this press in accordance with § 90 para. 2. Since there have been no other proposals, we will only consider the commandment proposal. Already from the Organizing Committee there is a motion for a commandment to the Committee on Budgets. So did the rapporteur. I'll ask if there's an interest in the final word. It isn't, nor does the Minister want it. That way, we will vote on the commandment of this press to the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 161, registered 164, for 145, there was no one against it. This proposal was adopted. The President of the Faltýnek Club suggested that the time limit for the hearing be reduced by 30 days. I will also take this vote. Initiating vote. If you agree to a 30-day cut, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting 162, registered is 163, for 71, versus 30. This proposal has not been adopted. I'll wait for the polls. [[He's waiting for the result of the check-up.]] It's okay. I'm done discussing paragraph 81. Let's continue with the point.
