ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u1	44. Proposal of the Prague City representative for the Act amending Act No. 491/2001 Coll., on elections to municipal councils and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 164/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as Parliament's press 164/1. Under the authority of the council, the draft law submitted shall be stated by the Mayor of hl. m. Prague Tomáš Hudeček, whom I welcome among us and please take the floor. Please, Mr. Mayor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me not hold you up too long with a proposal from the Embassies. m. Prague came to you in the Chamber of Deputies. If you remember, not all of us were present here, some time ago, about a month ago, I was doing this in the framework of a proposal for a change of several laws, the law on hl. m. Prague, the Act on elections to regional councils and consequently it would be necessary to amend the constitutional law, which would have a task in hl. m. Prague unite the system in the future, how it will vote. Because he's in the Embassies. m. Prague then stirred up the discussion, not unlike the one that was here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, when I was here last time, the Representation of the Czech Republic. m. Prague approved and sent us here, me and my colleague, Councilman Manhart, Councilman for Legislation, with a bill proposed by the original intention that was presented here a month ago and against which I was opposed, so it is changed into a form that I think is much more viable for everyone in Prague and here for you Members in the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we have agreed to send to you in this way rests on a very simple consideration and on a very simple matter, and unlike the previous proposals that have been made here, it is very simple and short. As the most appropriate solution to the problem, which - let me sum up - is to take a look at. m. Prague voted for the future in one single district and the Representation of hl. m. Prague, whatever its composition, could not divide the electoral circuits according to themselves. This is the primary reason for the changes to the laws that came here in the form of another parliamentary proposal that I had the honour of fighting a month ago. In the Representation of hl. m. Prague we approved the following amendment of another law and we present it to you as a basis for discussion and it is the wording of Section 27 of Act No. 491/2001 and this is the Act on elections to municipal councils and amending certain laws as amended. If you would approve this amendment in the Act on elections to municipal councils, when in the amendment cited in the provision contained in (?) In Annex 1 of the resolution, the creation of electoral circuits is excluded only for the Representation of the hl. m. Prague, that means only in Prague. The representatives of other municipalities, urban areas and urban districts remain untouched by this change, remaining preserved. And given that the Embassies of hl. m. Prague will continue to be elected as the council of the municipality, which corresponds entirely to this territorial whole, as I said here a month ago, there is no need to interfere in any other way in any other law, there is no need to interfere with the law on hl. m. Prague, there is no need to intervene in the Act on elections to regional councils, and what is the main thing, there is no need to interfere in any way in the constitutional law. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if the purpose of this change is to make Prague one single constituency for the future, which, by the way, reminds me, in the upcoming elections this year, is already approved by the Deputy Minister of State. m. Prague, so here you will vote in one electoral district, if the intention is one electoral district, then here this solution, which you can get from the legislative pen like this. m. Prague we allow to submit, I think the solution is easier, it is a quicker solution and it is a solution that undoubtedly will make more sense to everyone who thinks about it a little bit. Once again, for the last time, I'm going to tell you why we think the proposal that was here last time, which involves a change of law hl. m. Prague, the amendment of the Act on elections to regional councils and presumes that the constitutional law will subsequently have to be amended, so I will once again allow you to summarize why we think this bill on the amendment of elections to municipal councils is more appropriate. And I think that argument - there were a lot of them last time - is one basic one. Ladies and gentlemen, what I criticized here last time, which is precisely the changes to those three laws, while now there is a change in one single law, so what I criticized here last time is the main thing that separates the changes to the three laws from each other from the election to the Embassies. m. Prague and the choice to the city parts. I can't imagine, even with that knowledge, that a lot of new measures are always being taken in the state and public administration, I personally can't even imagine a situation where the mayor has taken a stand. m. Prague in the middle of the term of office of all 57 mayors is in office and, in turn, all 57 elected mayors are in office in the middle of the term of office of the mayor, especially after the budget of all the city districts is directly linked to the budget of the hl. m. Prague, what all infrastructure and other investments in urban areas are approved at the level of hl. m. Prague, and here this division I personally cannot imagine how it would work, let alone that it is possible at all. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude once again: If there is an interest in never repeating the situation that has quite purposefully divided Prague into seven electoral districts in the 2010 elections, then this bill, one small amendment to the municipal elections law, will allow you to approve this here. [[15.10 hours]] I don't think that a simpler solution can be found, and if this first law is in force here, it is not yet... this intention and any ulterior intentions are not hidden behind it, then I ask you to approve and successfully discuss this one change here, and then the Martyrium changes to three other laws fall under the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u3	I thank the Mayor and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u4	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you to my news report on Parliament's Press 164, the proposal of the Prague City Representative for the Act amending Act No. 491/2001 Coll., on elections to municipal councils and amending certain laws, as amended. In essence, the draft legislative authors duplicate the House Press 124, which was discussed at the last meeting and is now in committee. Both of the House's press are dealing with one and the same thing, in order to make Prague one constituency. At present, according to the Act on elections to municipal councils, there is the possibility of creating more electoral districts, 85 days before the day of the elections. In Prague, this option was used several times because of The representative of the capital city of Prague is elected according to the Act on elections to municipal councils, despite the fact that Prague is managed as a higher municipal unit and has the same functions as the region. There is therefore some contradiction, when Prague is a higher localized whole and also a municipality, because it is elected to the Prague City Representation as a municipal representative. For this reason, between 1998, 2002 and last in 2010, the local council decided to divide Prague into several electoral districts. In particular, the last distribution in 2010 was seen as very negative and as purposeful by the public. Indeed, thanks to the creation of electoral districts, the electoral outcome of the parties was fundamentally influenced, although they exceeded the 5% closing clause, but did not reach the mandate. From the above, it is evident that the creation of electoral districts in Prague has significantly influenced the results of elections to the Prague City Representation. The proponents of the bill want to change this practice, so that the capital city of Prague becomes one constituency and was the end of the speculative distribution of Prague, which was almost always dedicated. For this year's elections to the Prague City Representation, the council itself decided that Prague would become one constituency. The draft law that we are discussing here wants to remove this possibility from the representative of the capital city of Prague and to create one constituency forever so that there is no possibility of purposefully creating electoral districts in the capital city of Prague. The proposers present two options for solving this problem, where, firstly, a possible amendment to Act No. 491/2001 Coll., on elections to municipal councils, or secondly by amendment of Act No. 131/2000 Coll., about the capital city of Prague. The second option is addressed by the House's 124 press. The difference between print 164, which we are discussing here at the moment, and printing 124, is particularly that this press does not address the unification of elections to regional councils and the Prague City Representation. It only deals with the establishment of one constituency within the capital. This means that the elections to the Prague City Representation will still take place in municipal elections, despite the fact that Prague is perceived as a region. As the 124 press is on the committees, I suggest that this bill be released for further discussion. In the Public Administration Committee, where this press is ordered from the Organising Committee, then we will discuss both prints simultaneously, and I believe that we will find a compromise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u5	Thank you and I am now opening up a general debate in which Mr Stanjura and then Mr Koubek, Mr Svoboda and Mr Adámek have signed up with priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u6	Thank you for the floor. First of all, our club will support the release of the law for second reading. I would like the committees to discuss the exclusivity of Prague out of the bill. It is quite smiling when they say - both the petitioner and the rapporteur - that it is a purpose distribution. Well, if someone splits up their electoral district, it's always purposeful. And it's not just happening in Prague, it's happening in other cities. It has to be said that it's legal, it's legal. If we want to change this, and why not, I hope that in the committees, that is, in the Committee on Public Administration, there will be agreement that this will therefore be removed from all the municipalities. Because if it's bad in Prague, why should it be good in Olomouc, Ostrava, Brno, somewhere else? If they say the principle is wrong. It is nothing against the proposal, I think it can be done relatively simply, the paragraph will be thrown out and there won't be two words or a preposition of three "except Prague". I think that's all, and the debate about whether Prague is a county or a city, I'd leave it to the law that's already in those committees, so we don't do it again today. We had a long discussion at the last meeting. I am really jealous - I am not jealous, I am just saying, I am surprised that the rapporteur will say so authoritarianly that Prague is perceived as a region. Well, I don't know where, maybe in the political parties, when the candidates are assembled, but in those country science books it is simply said that the capital of the Czech Republic is Prague and not the main region. But I'm saying, we've already discussed this once, and I'm sure we'll be back to that at second or third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u7	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Koubek's speaking desk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u8	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you - and Mr Mayor - thank the rapporteur for a rather careful assessment of the three prints that we have here, which we discussed, if I am not mistaken, it was 30 April. Here, the 124 press, which was moved to the committee, moved to second reading and then moved to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. And I just wanted to call for this press to be moved to second reading, and I would just like to express my will - unlike the rapporteur - that we will find no compromise, but that we will find a broad consensus on this example, because as I am talking to the mayors of the various city parts, I have not found opposition to the fact that Prague should be one electoral total in the future. There is nothing more basically this press is dealing with at the moment, and that is not only the general agreement within the elected representatives of the capital city of Prague, but I believe that we will also find broad support within this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u9	Thank you, Mr President, and now, please, to Mr Svoboda's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u10	Thank you, Madam President. The Act on the capital city of Prague and the capital city of Prague is a matter that has been discussed very extensively at the Representation of the capital city of Prague. We went into this discussion with the fact that we don't even care if there's one circuit or 15 circuits, but that it bothers us that it's changing. That he was supposed to remain some kind of option. Finally, the representative of the capital city of Prague agreed that it should be one whole, and that is how the council decided it. I think it's a decision that can be discussed whether it's better for people to have a big sail or have sails of four, but it's just what we wanted, it means, it's once and for all one variant that can never be changed, and that change can't be considered purposeful. But I have another problem. Just when the distribution of circuits is perceived as wrong, when it is accused of being manipulated by electoral results, why are we taking the possibility of dividing circuits only to Prague and leaving it to everyone else? I think that this is a matter that should go through this House's discussion, because of course it can happen to us, we will have Prague as a whole, and the individual parts of the city will be divided into municipal elections. That seems like a relatively big problem to me. Because then the contradiction between the city parts and the city itself can be very difficult to solve. Or my position as representative of the capital city of Prague and the Member is to release them for second reading and open up a debate on whether such an adjustment should not become a general regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. Now please get to Mr. Adámek's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u12	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, I would like to comment here on the proposal that has been made. Allow me to make some substantive remarks. I would like to, and I listened very anxiously to Mr. Mayor Hudeček, perhaps it would be better if he devoted more to his own proposal or proposal of the council than to the criticism of what I have put forward here under the press 124. Not to mention there were many inaccuracies. I suppose it was inaccuracies, because if we're haunted by a two-year period here, what are we going to do if the mayors are different from the mayor, that's what the press 125 was dealing with, Mr. Mayor, that's not what this press was doing about the election change. If by one press or by one law we change a few laws, it's basically one thing, and it's not a problem from the point of view. However, before I go on, I would like to say that it does not seem that I want to criticise, at all costs, I am also in favour, as the rapporteur said, of letting this press go to second reading, because I agree with Mr Svoboda, my fellow Member, that it is necessary to discuss this also from the point of view of, say, other cities, other municipalities and so on. In this context, I would like to say that what you, my colleague through the Vice-President, are threatened if there were any chance of being in some urban areas - electoral districts have already existed for years, Prague 4, historically elected in five electoral districts. Maybe it'd be good to know as a former mayor. It's just material remarks. Since press criticism 124 has also been expressed here, I must say and define myself in relation to what the representative of the capital city of Prague proposes in the sense that our proposal is more comprehensive. Of course, the primary interest and purpose of this proposal is Prague's one constituency. In this context, it might be good to say, as said here, that this is legal. However, the Constitutional Court after 2010, when it spoke on this issue, also said that it was legal, but obviously manipulative. It is good to say things in whole, as has been said here. I want to say that our proposal deals with this much more comprehensively, including other ballots. It could be said that it significantly simplifies the electorate's decision-making process and, above all, makes it easier for them to do so when I give you an example, let's say in Prague it is running as standard in municipal elections, in our case the elections to the Prague City Representation, de facto in regional elections, even if they are called otherwise, 30, 40 entities and all written on a single sail. I am not saying that this is a major problem, but nevertheless, I would like to say, even after the experience I have and the reactions of citizens, this makes it very difficult to make decisions. That was the main reason for our change. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that I also recommend and vote in favour of the second reading. As Mr Klán said, it will be good to compare and discuss things in committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u13	Thank you, honourable Member. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the appellant or rapporteur whether they are interested in the final words. It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I'm asking you if anyone else has an opinion. The rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u14	Since the 124 press is also dealt with by the Constitutional Legal Committee, I suggest that this press should also be dealt with by the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-18-ps2013-010-06-013-044.u15	Another suggestion? It is not, so we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development? Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a 120-order vote. Registered 171 present, for 133, versus 2. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will now vote on the proposal that the proposal put forward be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee. Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 121, to which 171 Members are registered, for 115, against 18. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. This proposal was directed to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am done with this discussion of paragraph 44. Now let me read another apology from today's meeting. It is an apology from Mr Radim Holeček, who apologizes after 17.30 for work reasons. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
