ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u1	1. Proposal of Members of Roman Sklenák, jeroný Tejc and others to issue a law amending Act No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other employees in administrative offices (service law) /German press 71/ - second reading On 27 August this year, the Chamber of Deputies agreed to a proposal to repeat the second reading of this bill. It is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 393. I ask that Mr Roman Sklenák and Mr Jan Chvojka, Member of the Constitutional Committee, take the position at the rapporteur's table. Once again, the Constitutional Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development dealt with this draft law and their resolution was delivered to you as House Press 71/10 and 11. I ask the representatives of Mr Roman Sklenák's appellants if he wants to speak at the beginning of this second reading. It's not like that. I am now asking Mr Chvojka. He doesn't want to get out. I also ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Věra Kovářová, whether she wants to speak. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. I would like to present the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 12th meeting of 27 August 2014. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 12th meeting after the appearance of the representatives of the Ing authors. Jiří Petr, Member of Parliament, Mrs Mgr Monika Pálková, Deputy Minister of the Interior, after Mrs Ing's intelligence report. Věra Kovářová, Members, and after the debate, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the text of the comprehensive amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u3	Thank you. I am now opening a general debate in which I have signed up with the priority right of Mr Okamura. Before I invite him to the microphone, here's Mr. Snopek's de facto comment? There's been a mistake. So please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, what is the essence of the whole theater around the Service Act? Let me recap briefly. We have witnessed the hysteria of Mr Kalousek and the right-wing coalition, which was willing to give up holidays and obstructions to sabotage and prolong the endless work of Parliament. We witnessed a moment when Kalouskův's opposition screamed in parliament like an angry child who was being taken away from a toy. It will be good to recall their arguments. Among the sobs we heard a lament that during such a short time, i.e. during those few months, it was not and will not be possible to prepare the law good. Let us remember that at that moment, a law of service of the Zeman government was already in the world - years completed and even voted with effect from January next year. However, we have now witnessed a miracle that indeed shows that we have God-selected savages in Parliament. Mr. Sobotka tossed his associate Mr. Dienstbier overboard and made a quick deal with Mr. Kalousek. And, world, wonder, by waving a magic wand, undoubtedly the mighty wand of Mr Kalousek, suddenly the law is complete and high-quality to the satisfaction of the government coalition and Kalouskův's party, and no more months of hard work are needed. Anyone who doesn't believe in miracles has a second option to think about. The whole theater was designed for purpose by Mr. Kalousek and Sobotka, when non-consecration played the role of useful idiots. Let us also recall that Mr Sobotka threw overboard not only the author of his proposal to Mr Dienstbier, but, as the trade unions said, he also violated agreements within the tripartite. Given the real pressure of the European Union and the pressure of anti-corruption civil associations, to which a large proportion of Members even committed themselves to the adoption of the Staff Law, it was necessary to approve the law. On the other hand, ČSSD officials, YES, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and ODS needed to pull out all their teeth. And as Professor Dvořáková said, castrate him properly. [[16.20 hours]] Election talks about combating corruption are one thing, but the real, real business of linking the state administration of selected political parties and chosen godparents is the number one priority for these parties. Breaking the money lines from state to companies that then feed politicians could be deadly to many of them. Everyone knows that the country's biggest problem is linking politics, business and government. And we're not the only ones who see it that way. That's what we saw with my previous speaker, the president of the Republic. The strategy is clear. A service law, given its anti-corruption potential, cannot be rejected. A number of politicians formally report to it, including the electoral programmes of political parties, and in addition, we are being pressured by Europe, which has no longer enjoyed dumping European money into a black hole under the name of the Czech Republic. And so in the Czech Republic we again played a game to adopt a law that many politicians don't really want, but they can't say it directly. Madam, honourable Members, friends of conscience, there is only one thing to say about this. This is a tough, unscrutable fraud against the voters of most parliamentary parties. Yes, I agree that lobbyists around Mr Sobotka and Mr Kalousek have other interests, but the vast majority of our country's citizens, like the European Commission, do not want a formal service code. Everyone wants to depoliticalize the government, they want the end of stealing and spending public money. At the moment that Kalouskův's opposition to the Service Act reached an agreement with the coalition, when the media is providing us with optimistic pictures of how legislation as diligent ants quickly brings together changes in the sections of the Service Act, we are witnessing opposition treaty number two. The result is a version of the law that will affect the fate of most of our anti-corruption laws - they will be toothless. And it is even quite likely that corruption in large politics will increase. Democracy is threatened by corruption, clientelism and the cynical way of pushing through the current government of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, which leads to growing protest votes. We have a total of four amendments, one of which is precisely the abolition of political representatives. If this amendment is not adopted, the Úsvit movement will vote against this corrupt agreement of the ČSSD, the ANO, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and ODS and, of course, we will also join the constitutional complaint, as the President of the Republic spoke of it. I must say that at this moment Úsvit has become the only opposition party in the Czech Parliament, which, unfortunately, is now fighting completely alone against the current unfair practices in our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u5	Thank you. Next to the debate are Mr Klán, Mr Korte, Mrs Hnyková, Mr Černoch, Mr Plíšek and then Mr Zavadil. I didn't see you there. I'm sorry. Please come with priority rights. Member Petr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we here, I hope, are successfully continuing our journey towards an acceptable service law. The wrong law turns to better, and that's just a little worse than having a really good law. It is good that the government's aim is no longer an end-to-end adoption of the law and an effort to meet the demands of Brussels, which, as it turns out, was just an excuse, as we pointed out at the beginning, because last week we had already signed a partnership agreement on the basis of which we can draw European money in the following period. And as it turns out, the deal was accepted regardless of whether we really have a service bill or not. After all, the Prime Minister at the European Council meeting on the weekend, although on another subject, has made it very clear that if he does not want to, he will not have any dictations from Brussels and is able to reserve the right to refuse the European Union's procedure. I know this is not the subject of today's debate, and I will not talk about it for long, but civil democrats do not really understand the hesitation of the Prime Minister to proceed together on Russian activities in Ukraine and to take a clear and decisive position. There is a conflict of war in our neighbourhood, whether we admit it or not, and Czech citizens have the right to know how national security will be ensured, how we will participate in the common defence and what foreign policy we have at all. And I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that it is an advantage to have a foreign policy, and it is an advantage if such a foreign policy is consensual as far as possible. It is our joint negotiations on the service law that have shown that the government and the opposition are able to agree and agree on a common approach, and we would like to reach such consensus on issues that are even more important, and that is ensuring our security and our foreign policy orientation. That is why we are proposing an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to call on the Prime Minister to come before the House at this meeting and explain Czech foreign policy and discuss with us the clear position that our countries will take in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, as well as our position towards our allies, whether from the North Atlantic Alliance or other European democratic countries. But now back to the service bill. We wanted to start with one single thing, and that was to create prerequisites for professional, impartial and efficient government, which would not be encapsulated in itself, but for which citizens would be valued clients. And although Mr Okamura has not noticed this, because he is fascinated only by Mr Sobotka and Mr Kalousek, the citizens' democrats have not only taken a constructive position since the beginning of the meeting, but specifically represented individual proposals for change, in order to approve a good law that will ensure a good and professional civil service to citizens. I said here at this point some time ago that compromise cannot be a policy objective, but that if compromise is the result of political negotiations, it is acceptable and ultimately a good result, because agreement across the political spectrum for such important things also has value. However, there has not been any backstage agreement - and I would like to say this through the President, Mr Okamur - between Mr Kalousek and Mr Sobotka, but there has been an acceptable compromise following rather complex negotiations in which the demands of the civil democrats have been far-reachingly taken into account, and that is why we will not have a problem voting for this form of service law. Of course, it is not good, and that is one of the few things in which I agree with the President that such a law is being negotiated in a hurry. And we were the ones who repeatedly pointed it out, and who said that if we did not have a standard reminder procedure, if we did not have the details to deal with it in time, that we would certainly eventually draw up the wrong law, but ultimately, thanks to the agreement of the political parties and the fact that our improvements were adopted far-reachingly, we achieved a service law, which, if I do not exaggerate, is at least acceptable. [[16.30 hours]] I would like to remind you here of the four basic things that we have asked for and which have, to some extent, been taken into account in the agreement reached. Firstly, we called for the abolition of the Institute of the Directorate-General, that is, the useless super-office with a super official, who would be equipped with very unusual personnel powers. The solution we found in agreement with the government coalition is a solution that we are satisfied with. We are satisfied that there will not be another useless office with a vague agenda. The proposal for the coordination of the state service and its personnel security to be provided by the Ministry of the Interior is our proposal and we have no problem with it. The second thing we asked for was the openness of the public service at all levels for both self-government officials and representatives of the academic and private sphere, i.e. in order not to isolate the bureaucrats and to choose between themselves. We are only partially satisfied with the solution brought by the government. It is a good thing that there will not be a completely closed world for each other with evaluation and appointment officials. It is a good thing that the government accepted our comment and, in principle, took a formal exam with an examination of the competence of self-governing officials. However, we are promoting as much openness as possible to the public service, so that successful people from the private sector, from the academic sphere, from municipal, urban and regional authorities can strengthen and continuously improve government administration. We accept the definitive or proposed form of selection procedures for the highest functions, such as the Deputy Minister of State, State Secretaries, section heads, but lower management positions, which are the heads of the trade unions and department heads, we propose, and it will be the content of our independent amendment, even more openness of the selection procedures to all interested in the private sphere, from the academic sphere, which will meet the conditions of education, practice and knowledge. The third thing we asked for was to ensure staff continuity and stability. The government coalition accepted our comment and extended the necessary length of work experience of those to whom this law is to apply from three to four years. And then there's the fourth point, as it turns out, most problematic, and that's the suggestion that there's only one type of deputy. We are not satisfied with the solution proposed by the government coalition, but because in all other cases we have achieved the enforcement of our demands, so we are prepared to respect this agreement. We really don't need two types of deputy. We do not need deputies whose sole purpose is to represent the minister at government meetings or official events. At first, we wanted one type of deputy. But we had an idea that was logical, which would work best, and that's for the minister to bring in his deputies, even if they were people who worked elsewhere than in the public sector, as it has been so far, and these deputies would run the entrusted part of the ministry. This model is proven, it combines quite well with the Ministry's political management with professional competence and we do not see why we should change this model in such a fundamental way. However, I note that the government coalition of me incomprehensible reasons insists on two types of deputys, and I also note that, despite the fact that we do not like it and do not agree, we are prepared to adopt this law as a whole - and in view of the fact that all of our other requirements have been accepted - to move forward and finally vote in favour of the law. So I say that the government has fulfilled three of our four essential conditions, has respected the agreement, and we have no problem keeping our word on our part. This is important for me to say this statement before I speak further, because I want to draw attention to it, and my colleagues know that we have tabled this outside the framework of this agreement, as we have already announced in those negotiations, several amendments which should lead to further improvements in this law and which are tabled by a separate amendment, which is the Parliament's press of 1195. We, firstly, really want to ensure that people outside the government have the opportunity to work for the Czech state, and therefore we propose that in the first round, and this is important, in the first round, people from the private sphere or from public institutions can report to the tender, with respect to the condition that they pass the administrative exam and have the appropriate practice. Ladies and gentlemen, when you think about this proposal, imagine an auditor in a private firm why, after four years of practice, he should be worse than an auditor who works in a state institution. So we propose that in the first round, the selection procedures for the lower management positions - the department head, the department director - should open up to people from the private sphere as well. Secondly, we propose in this amendment that officials' education can be provided by universities. Not automatically, of course, but back to college after they get an accreditation from the Ministry of the Interior. It will be the cheapest, most efficient, best quality, because universities have enough experience and have adequate staff. Thirdly, we want to reduce in proportion the amount of disproportionately high sales on termination of employment for an indefinite period of about half the time that is now being proposed. Once again, when you think about this amendment, imagine a person entering the state administration after graduating from college at some age of 25 working nine years, leaving the government at 34 years old, and the state guarantees that he will be able to pay for a year if he can't find a place and then pay him 12 times a month's salary. This really seems unnecessary and excessive to us, and we would be here to reduce this outlet. For example, in this particular case, after nine years of practice in half, i.e. six times. Fourth, we propose to exempt a valid administrative education from the State Institute of International Relations in Moscow. Fifthly, we suggest we move the data so-called. systemization of administrative posts by one month - instead of 30 November on 31 December, so that it is time-realistic to do everything by 1 January. And we also propose, sixthly, to release the mandatory presence of the union in the administrative exam. Ladies and gentlemen, although these amendments were not part of the condition for us to agree to the overall agreement, I would ask you to get to know them carefully again, because especially the proposal to open up a public service to people from the private sphere and the academic sector is something that would really improve the state administration in the future, which is undoubtedly a good step. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that civil democrats will keep their say and support a version of the service law that corresponds to the agreement between us as a right-wing opposition and a government coalition. If you also consider the further preparation of our other proposals that we are putting forward, this will undoubtedly be another step towards adopting an acceptable or quite good Civil Service Act that will serve our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u7	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Klán's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you both once again with personal observations on the present draft Civil Service Act, as well as the opinion of the KSČM MEP on its deliberations. You know, when I was writing this performance, I was wondering how to recapture it here, whether it was again the subject of the history of service laws in the Czech Republic from 1992 until now, or whether it was directly a criticism of the current draft from the Ministry of the Interior. I've decided to take the other option, the shorter one, so I won't stay here too long. 'Cause when there was a second reading earlier, I'd like to give you an idea of where there was a mistake, and who's responsible for it, to the present day. However, let me start by pointing out that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, from the very beginning, when this parliamentary version of the Civil Service Act is being discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies, has harshly criticised the legislative and procedural procedure of such an important material. From the very beginning, we say that this law should have been a government proposal and not a proposal from the MPs. A long time ago, an impact analysis of regulations could have been carried out, both internal and external inter-ministerial commentary proceedings could have taken place, and many other things to avoid where we are at present, as the citizen of the Czech Republic perceives these skirmishes, which took place here over the summer months, very negatively. When this parliamentary bill on the Civil Service began to be discussed in January of this year, even the petitioners probably had no idea where the whole thing was going to go. In January, we were discussing only a few papers where there was almost nothing, and it was already announced that the government would prepare a comprehensive amendment to the parliamentary proposal. That didn't do any good. This amendment and its preparation lasted very long, until the end of May of this year, when the Constitutional Committee first met on this issue, it was 29 May. And we received that comprehensive amendment the day before the meeting. So you can imagine how it must have been read. And just instead of a proper commentary procedure, we met at various seminars, dinners, breakfasts, the last time I said séances, we called on different spirits, including the spirit of Law 218/2002, it was a big scarecrow, which is basically a scarecrow to the present day. But that was not the only spirit, there was still the spirit of the law from the then right-wing coalition of Petr Nečas, when this novel was prepared by then vice-premier Karolína Peake. And there was a service law from Jiří Rusnok's workshop. So that was a lot of service laws. And how to create a really functioning service law was quite a challenge. And where did we go? Who knows? Which one of you will answer me? I'll answer it myself. To a dead end, when the right-wing opposition resented the instrument of the General Directorate of State Service and demanded that it be released from the law because, according to its views, it is a threat to democracy. There is also an institution in Europe of the Directorate-General, such as France, where there is a partial system, in the UK or Poland. The paradox is that the right-wing bill of service from the last parliamentary term drew inspiration in the UK. So I don't know where there's a kind of threat to democracy by the Directorate-General. We said yes, it's an office for the authorities. No doubt. But if it's supposed to exist, let it be under the Office of the Government, for example. And so that this Directorate-General does not have an extra number of officials, but would, for example, be drawn only from the limit of the Office of the Government and the ministries. We also proposed an insurance policy against the fear that officials would rule here, for example, the Directorate-General of State Services, in addition to the Director and his representative, would constitute the College of Personalists of 15 members who are nominated according to the principle of proportional representation of the Members' Club in the Chamber of Deputies for a period of 5 years. However, this request has not been taken into account and, under pressure from the right-wing opposition, the fear coalition has retreated from the concept of the Directorate-General. It should be noted here that if it had not given way, Law 211/2002 would have started to apply and nothing would have happened at all. It would go completely further, only someone would have to appoint a CEO, in the budget would have to find 5 billion for the various benefits of officials, with which the 2002 Act was precisely envisaged. So instead of this Directorate-General, which will not exist, and the authority of this office passes under the agreement of that coalition of fear with the right-wing opposition under the Ministry of the Interior, a super-ministership is created, which has never been here before in the history of Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic. This will include the security forces, the General Inspection of the Security Corps and now the entire state administration and the entire civil service. Former Interior Minister Ivan Langer would undoubtedly be pleased if he could run this great ministry. It's gonna be very interesting since New Year's. Given that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is not part of the quasi-negotiated agreement that the coalition of fear with the right-wing opposition has concluded, we do not feel bound by any agreements, and therefore we will put forward several amendments that will reflect our position and in our view a certain way improve the comprehensive amendment tabled, I do not even know how much more complex amendment it is, which is a shame, because in this way we are reducing the legislative process here in some way. I will introduce these amendments to you at the very end of my speech. I will now give you a little comment on our basic observations and comments on the Service Act. In our view, it is necessary for the law in Section 2 (2) to be amended. 1 by means that the current point (j) shall be referred to as point (k) and the new text (j) shall read as follows: and other officials whose status is governed by a special law. If anyone doesn't know what § 2 means, it regulates who the law applies to and who it doesn't apply to. And we want it not to apply to the Supreme Audit Office. I know many of my opponents have said it's not the administration. Okay, I accept it, it's not the administration, but his role is defined in the Constitution itself in the fifth, and the SAO has its law. In addition, according to Section 5 of this comprehensive amendment, where services are listed in taxatively, namely letter n, which is the preparation and execution of administrative acts, including control, and letter q, I think for this reason the SAO is to fall under the law. Moreover, when I found out that Mr Zavadil's amendment clearly declares which authorities produce this service, which is precisely what the SAO is, the law is supposed to apply to him. That is why we want the independence of this office to be maintained. Therefore, we demand that Section 2 be explicitly mentioned. We also require that other heads of administration be removed from the scope of this Act, we will still discuss § 2, if you want independent regulators elected or appointed by the Government or the President of the Republic. In this case, these are the heads of the following offices: State Office for Nuclear Safety, Czech Office for Agricultural and Cadastral, Czech Mining Office, Industrial Property Office and Administration of State Material Reserves. If, for example, an exception is granted to the Czech Statistical Office or the Energy Regulatory Office, it is logical, in our opinion, that the service law should not apply to other heads and representatives of these heads, if they are listed in the organizational scheme. [[16.50 hours]] It is these central authorities that define the law of competence. And if these officials of these central government bodies are elected functions, and if those exceptions are provided for by most administrations, it would be logical that the law should not apply to these other heads. Now to the eternal theme of the political deputy. According to the bill - that is the name of a deputy member of the government - § 173. We demand that it be made clear what agenda these political representatives will be carrying out. For example, to state that a deputy member of the government must always be present at committees, committees in Parliament, i.e. in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. That would be logical, because at least they would be in charge of some agenda, and they wouldn't just be the "waiters," as someone has mentioned several times. Otherwise, this function is completely useless and it's really a trade fair for friends, that's perfectly logical. It is worth considering whether it is necessary to have two political representatives, because if this comprehensive amendment takes an example in Germany, where they have two political representatives, then I think that one political deputy is enough for our country, and it is perfectly fine only by the size of the state. Section 149 - Special provision for a special premium. In paragraph 2, the maximum amount of this special premium is clearly set at, for example, 25 per cent of the annual sum of the highest wage rate, as indicated for example in Section 151. Otherwise, in my opinion, this will be due to the government, as set out in the rules for determining the specific amount of the special premium. If the amount of the special premium is not fixed taxably in this law, this instrument can replace the outrageous rewards that have been associated with us for a long time, and in the last parliamentary term it was almost daily that someone worked 26 hours a day, and the day has 24 hours a day, and various other outrageous rewards. This paragraph here can become an apple of the contention of the Civil Service Act itself. Now § 201 - so-called exemption from the presumption of education, paragraph 1. A former employee who, in the course of his/her work in employment - now listen carefully - has long proven himself/herself, even though he/she did not fulfil for the required activities the presumption of education under the legislation on the salaries of civil servants, may be accepted into the service and/or appointed as a place of service at which he/she will perform a service similar to that of his/her type of work in employment, even if he/she does not meet the training provided for in points (c) to (e) of paragraph 7 of paragraph 2. I would have modified this paragraph in a certain way. I don't know, and from the logic of the matter, I don't even understand who's going to evaluate the employee that he's proven himself in the long run. I still don't know what the word "long term" means. What's the time stamp? It's kind of rubbery. We can all say that. Is it a year, six months, five years, ten years? I don't know. That's why I'm taxing the minimum of employment in that particular position. [[time]] I will now introduce you to the various amendments. I mentioned two already, this concerns the Supreme Audit Office and other central government bodies. As regards § 17, I have held many negotiations with dependent regulators, whether the Czech Telecommunications Office or the Energy Regulatory Office, and they require in Section 17 to amend the paragraph as follows: Then at the end of the paragraph where you have written a proposal for systemization, the Secretary of State - period submits. In the case of the systemization of the Office of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, the Czech Telecommunications Office, the Energy Regulatory Office, the Office for the Protection of Competition, the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, the Czech Statistical Office or the State Office for Nuclear Safety, the design of the systemization is prepared by the Head of the Service Office in cooperation with the Deputy Minister for Civil Service. The proposal for a systemization shall be submitted to the Government of the Head of the Service Office through the Minister of the Interior. All these independent regulators are concerned about maintaining their independence. I'm not gonna read the whole amendment. Anyone who is interested will find it in the system and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for the various House documents. Now to § 173 - Deputy Prime Minister. According to my amendment, a period is inserted after the words 'government meeting' and the words 'and represent it to' are deleted. The deleted words must be replaced by the following text: In addition, a member of the government must always represent a member of the Committees and Commissions in order for the political deputy at least to be here, because it has happened to us many times that the expert deputy, who came to the committee meeting and was not there by the minister, was unable to answer our political questions. And if this instrument is really to be a political deputy, then we demand clear powers, that it should always be present at the meetings of those committees, unless, of course, the Minister's personal participation is required. In addition to § 173 - number number two, I replace number one with just one political deputy. That's enough for us, I think, because we have a minister and his deputy. Why would we have two of his deputies? Then I have to ask myself, if there were two of them, what would the minister be doing there? As regards Section 201, I have come up with two variants of my amendment, when the word "long-term' is deleted and replaced by the words "in the last ten years since the entry into force of this law', so that the period for which the official was in employment is clearly fixed in a tax way. The second option I also presented is only in those years and it is written a little bit differently, where the condition is written at the end of that paragraph 1 and it says that this exemption applies only to existing employees who have been continuously employed in at least the last five years in the given position for which they are to be accepted. I will see which amendment will interest you more, or whether it will interest you at all, and whether, of course, the petitioners will accept this. I believe I have explained enough to you the KSČM's position on the current version of the Service Act. In our opinion, from 1 January, when this parliamentary proposal comes into effect, there will be an interesting chaos and confusion, when, first of all, from the very beginning, although there is Law 218/2002, or, of course, the last one, which he prepared - as some say here - the Minister without a job, but he is not a minister without a job, he is just a minister without a ministry. He prepared a comprehensive amendment, which also stood at the Institute of the Directorate-General of State Services, as was the case in the 2002 Law. And now everything goes to the Home Office. In addition, as was expected with the implementation of the entire half year, since July, when the Institute of Directorate General was to be built, to appoint the Director General, to make a tender, and so it was counted, and it was all wasted. But that is not our concern, because, as I said before, we are not bound by any positional or quasi-negotiation, it doesn't matter what we call it, but it was a great concession to the coalition of fear that gave way to the right-wing opposition. These games will not participate in the KSČM, because if the coalition of fear in everything, in this case, the right-wing opposition is retreating under pressure that it is a threat to democracy, then this, ladies and gentlemen, can be the next law that will again threaten democracy. And the right-wing opposition will once again lay down some conditions, and that it will block the law in its third reading, and we will build it here forever. It's a very dangerous instrument. As I have already said, the KSČM is not bound by any agreement at all, so our third-reading vote will depend on the amendments adopted. But I can already tell you that the position on our bill is very, very restraining and, at the moment, directly negative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u9	I thank my colleague Klán. Good afternoon, honourable Members. Allow me to do some organizational things first. My colleague Pfléger has a replacement card number 1. She canceled her apology from today's meeting, Mrs Halíková, who is at the meeting. On the contrary, Mr Matěj Fichtner has asked for his apology since 16.40 and Minister Věra Jourová. Mr Pavel Šrámek also asked for an apology from 16 a.m. and from 17 p.m. Vice-President Bartošek. That's all of the organizational stuff. I will now ask my colleague Korte to take the floor. Ms. Jana Hnyková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I highly appreciate that the government coalition and the right-wing opposition were able to agree on a compromise form of service law. It is an important law that will affect the form of government in future years. Of course, as a compromise, it cannot be an ideal form. This can't be a compromise. After all, it is a creation of human activity, and man is a vessel of imperfection and imperfection cannot create perfection. If the law is at least good, it will show practice. I think that in the future, we're going to go back to him, and we're going to be improving him with gradual steps, and there's no reason we shouldn't come to that improvement right away. In this respect, my two amendments go. The first amendment is actually an old-fashioned proposal. I have already applied it to the previous version of this law, which was identical in its form. It concerns a reduction in higher education which is not recognised for the needs of the public service in § 7 para. 4, where I added also High School of National Security Corps, respectively. some of her faculties. I explained my proposal in detail in the last second reading. I set an illustrative example of the titles of individual thesis. I've discussed two works in detail. I think I have shown enough that these schools have provided education incompatible with the needs of a democratic state. I will not repeat these arguments in extenso, interested people can track them in the screen record. I will stress only the most important thing. Paragraph 7 (a) shall not apply. 4 for the qualification of higher education for the needs of this law does not recognise the discharge of universities of political and security former Soviet Union with the exception of MGIMO, which I have my doubts about. On the other hand, only schools in socialist Czechoslovakia exclude political schools. Ladies and gentlemen, this asymmetry is illogical, unreasonable, because it is meaningless. That's the kind of school we have here. It was the University of National Security, which was established by the legal measures of the Federal Assembly of the Czechoslovak Republic in 1973, or at the height of standardisation. It had originally three faculties, the first - the Faculty of State Security, the second - Faculty of Public Security, third - Faculty of State Border Protection, later added fourth in Bratislava, Faculty of Investigation. Of this, in particular, she of the first and third faculties, state security and state border protection - I also do not make any illusions about the other two, but I am generous and I leave them aside - obviously their purpose was only to strengthen the repressive apparatus of the Communist totalitarian regime. What they taught there were the titles of the thesis. If there is an interest and if it is declared, I can read the work here, I have about a dozen, we will spend here a pleasant uplifting September. But they had to teach something else, for example, to kidnap people, beat them up, and unconsciously throw them into the woods, as they did to Ivan Medek or dissident Petr Pacák, to burn people's fingers, as they did to Vlasta Třešňák, and then forced him to emigrate. I could keep going. Those people must have learned somewhere. I don't know if they taught it at this school, but it's obvious that these schools didn't provide education usable, usable and desirable in a democratic state. This was also confirmed by the Constitutional Court when its founding number 225/1995 Coll. He said: "The Acting Measures of the Federal Assembly No. 107/1973 Coll., on the establishment of the University of SNB, became an expression of others, respectively. other value and content claims on workers in the Ministry of the Interior, than those that could have been implemented by a proper, global and universal legal study.' It is a finding that justifies why graduates of these schools, although they have the title JUDr, cannot be included on the list of legal associates, so they cannot become lawyers. They cannot work in justice, but is it desirable to admit them to the highest positions in the state administration of a democratic state? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but I don't see any logic in that. We're not protecting agents here, we're not protecting any coworkers who might have been victims. Here we protect active members of the StB who were tools and executors of repression. The proposal itself, please, and I insist, is not discriminatory. Graduates of these schools can work in government in lower positions where secondary qualifications are required, and after all, they had a quarter of a century to graduate from a normal school. If they have done so, they can also enter the positions of higher education. So much for my first proposal. My second proposal concerns what my colleague Fiala has partially touched here. Section 33 deals with an obstacle to admission to the service of a civil servant or the performance of a service, which lists functions which are incompatible. In paragraph 2, under the heading. (e), (f) - I only focus on this group - they are professional soldiers and members of the Security Corps, or those who are employed by a member of the Security Corps or a professional soldier, cannot work in the civil service. But, and this is a positive novelty to this proposal, they can participate directly in the selection process. I quote in paragraph 3: "If, on the basis of the results of the selection procedure, a person is chosen to take up the service referred to in paragraph 2, he shall act without delay in order to remove the obstacle referred to in paragraph 2.' I stress: it will immediately take legal action to remove the obstacle. [[17.10 hours]] I've been thinking about what a legal act this is. As regards the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members No. 361/2013 Sb., he doesn't know any institute for example interruption of service. He's got the Institute of Advances. In § 28 it calculates different types of advances, in § 29 there is one of the advances that would theoretically be considered in this case, the conditions are defined. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 1 - a member who is posted for service (a) to another organisational component of the State, legal or natural person, etc., shall be included in the advance. End of quote. I stress: which is sent. It means that a superior, that is, a ministerial official, will send this member to work elsewhere outside his own congregation, but it is not that the member could ask to be sent there himself. So this institute is not usable and another possible way in which the legal act required may look like it is that the member applies for termination of his service if he wants to work in service under this law. In the case of soldiers under Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on Professional Soldiers, there is an institute of interruption of service. Section 11 defines the conditions under which, in what circumstances, etc., for example, if a professional soldier is elected to the function of a vacant representative, but no drawer which would be applicable to our needs is here. Thus, once again, the only possible legal act of a professional soldier, if he wants to work in the civil service, is to terminate the service of a soldier. And here we are at the nucleus. We have two groups of civil servants who will have to work in one workplace doing the same job in the same position, but the majority will be honored by the amount of x, while the minority will be 2x. It is quite obvious that this cannot benefit interpersonal relations because it is clearly discrimination against the majority. By the way, it's not a new situation. For example, according to Government Decree No 258/1999 Coll., on the bodies of the state administration in which professional soldiers perform defensive tasks, the professional soldiers served not only in the army but also as part of the civil central authorities of the state administration. They were civilized in 2003, so former professional soldiers are now not only employees of the civil administration section of the Ministry of Defence, but also work in the National Security Office, the State Administration of Material Reserves, but also at the Ministry of Health. And they're getting double pay everywhere, maybe for the same job they've done before on a uniform salary. According to the 2000 figures, 120 soldiers were employed by civil authorities. I, frankly, doubt there would be fewer of them today. For the sake of clarity, I am of the opinion that pensions as a principle are correct and useful and should be maintained. Their purpose is to motivate more experienced members and soldiers to remain in the service longer, as the service depends on the number of years served and there is a form of compensation for the difficult possibilities of applying at a later age. There is, however, the question here is whether the limits of entitlement to the service after 15 years are not put too low, because then these people are actually leaving at the top of their physical and mental forces. And that's wrong. But this is more of an issue that should be addressed by other laws, especially the service laws from which I quote. However, in my opinion, this should be set strictly alternatively. Either work in the private sector, then with debts, or continuation of work for the state in another function, for example at another office, etc., but then without service. For using both advantages at once, ladies and gentlemen, working for the state, especially under this law, is advantageous, and using both benefits at once is unfair, even claiming that it is immoral. I suspect there will be a storm of resistance, but I just point out that the same adjustment that I propose in my amendment, i.e. For example, the Federal Republic of Germany has the obligation to suspend the payment of benefits during the period of service of a civil servant. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will consider my suggestions. I hope you will find that they are logical, useful and useful, and that you will support them in the third reading. Both of my proposals are included in the system, and I will sign up for them in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u11	Thank you, Mr Daniel Korte. Mrs Jana Hnyková will now be prepared, Mr Marek Černoch will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u12	Thank you and have a good afternoon, everyone. I promise not to justify my amendment in such detail, but I dare to present it to you, because it is an old-fashioned amendment that has not been taken into account in the comprehensive amendment to the Service Act and the Dawn of Direct Democracy movement wants to prevent new servitudes from coming out of civil servants, and I must repeat from my previous speech. And I want to say that none of us know if we will ever end up in the public administration, and we cannot be covered by this law, too, and we certainly wouldn't like it. State staff under the current text may be transferred for a period strictly necessary for a different service performance for 180 days per calendar year and may, with its consent, extend that period for 180 days. Such a long time is completely unacceptable to us. We propose to shorten this period to 60 days in a calendar year and another 60 days with the approval of the employee compared to the current 180 days in a calendar year and we propose to make this amendment in § 47 para. 1 when number 180 is replaced by number 60. The proposed amendment would read precisely as follows: "The national staff member may be transferred for a period strictly necessary, which must be determined in advance, but for a maximum period of 60 days in a calendar year, to another official office or to another organisational department of the Service Office, even without his consent. With the consent of a civil servant, the period of transfer may be extended for a maximum period of 60 days.' I will return to the explanatory report and repeat: As already described in the reasoning of the proposal, this is a significant deterioration in the position of a civil servant compared to Act No.361/2003 Coll., on the service of members of the security forces. [[17.20 hours]] This is contrary, and I recall again, with the opinion of the RHSD plenary session of 30 June 2014, which states, inter alia, that the amendment to the Civil Service Act should not contain more stringent provisions on the obligations and limitations of civil servants than those of members of the armed forces in the Act on the service of members of the security forces. Members of the Security Councils are in a completely different position from future civil servants. In addition, obligations and restrictions shall be compensated for by the members. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support our amendment following repeated hearing of such serious information and will approve this proposal at third reading. I will sign up for my amendment in a detailed debate and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u13	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková, for her performance. My colleague, Černoch, checked out. Before I give the floor to my colleague Plíšek, I am merely stating an apology from today's meeting since 5:30 p.m. Minister Daniel Herman. Mr Martin Plíšek has now asked for the floor, Mr Podivínský will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u14	Mr Vice-President, Madam Members, let me also briefly comment in the general debate on the draft Staff Law as a participant in the negotiations of the government coalition with the opposition parties. And it is not quite often customary from the mouth of the opposition Member, I really appreciate the approach of the government coalition and the legislation of the Ministry of the Interior, which has been able to prepare a new text of the law, which is acceptable to TOP 09 as a whole in less than three weeks. At the same time, I want to update three amendments here. The TOP 09 at one of the last meetings of all the parliamentary parties came up with an idea that is common among certain officials and officials in the European Commission, and that is the compulsory rotation of certain officials between the various sections and between the various authorities. My first amendment says that they would rotate the state secretaries appointed under this proposal for a period of five years. This means that one person could not act as Secretary of State twice in a row. It would, of course, only be at the ministries and government offices, where there is also the office of state secretaries. This means that this is my first amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. My second amendment also concerns the rotation of some officials, the rotation of senior officials. This means that it would not concern all civil servants, but only those in certain positions - namely the Heads of Departments, the Heads of the Union, and it would also concern the Section's Deputy Head of Management - who are in charge of public procurement decisions, grant policies, that is to say, decision-making on state budget subsidies or European funds, and are also in charge of audit. These activities are good so that one official does not perform for many years. We also see a certain anti-corruption character in this way that these officials should exchange in these general activities, which is the same as with the Secretary of State I propose that, after five years, officials in these higher positions, who decide on public procurement, subsidies and conduct audits, so that there is a rotation of these officials, because they actually decide on the spending of small public budgets in billions, and often there can be a risk of corruption or clientelistic negotiations. And my third amendment, which I would like to refer to in detail in the debate, concerns the exclusion provisions of Section 2 of the Act. They say who's not covered by the Service Act. In addition to a member of the Board of the Czech Telecommunications Office, I would also like to add the Chairman of the Board of the Czech Telecommunications Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u15	I thank my colleague Martin Plíšek. Mr Tomáš Podivínský will now take the floor, Mrs Věra Kolářová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, as a colleague of Plíšek, I would like to introduce you very briefly to three amendments which are very brief. The first one concerns the Czech Statistical Office, when I want to extend the scope of possible, I stress the professional candidates who could participate in the selection procedures for the high functions of the Czech Statistical Office as Director of the Section, Director of the Department or Head of the Department. The second amendment concerns the State Office for Nuclear Safety, where I think it is necessary to ensure greater impartiality and independence of this office. I will be in my amendment when, in a detailed debate on all three, more specifically, in more detail, I will propose the exclusion of the President of the State Nuclear Safety Authority and the inspectors of this Office from the scope of the Staff Law. The third amendment concerns mainly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, respectively, employees who return from foreign posting back to the Czech Republic and would be subject to very strict, significantly stricter conditions, where without their own consent they could, for example, be transferred to another work in another central body of the state administration, which means not only outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but also outside Prague, but also for two years. This would mean moving, moving families, and it would also be a very significant intervention in the privacy of these civil servants and would be significantly disadvantaged, handicapped compared to other civil servants. In brief, then, I will come back to this in more detail in the detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u17	I thank Mr Weird for his speech. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová will take the floor, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil will prepare himself. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the legislative process of the draft new service law lasted a number of months. We can ask whether it was standard or non-standard. But he certainly brought one thing: Coalition began to negotiate with the opposition, negotiations took place in a dignified and material atmosphere. The rules of the game were given at the beginning. The opposition has raised its four demands that if they are granted or agreed, it will not raise new demands and support the bill at third reading. I consider this to be a very important moment for the future. If the opposition and the coalition meet over a bill, the opposition criticizes something, let it say it at the beginning and approve the law after agreement at third reading and does not make new demands. It was also agreed that if the opposition found a loophole in the new comprehensive amendment, it would submit amendments, but it would support the law at third reading if they were not adopted. [[17.30 hours]] Therefore, let me mention my amendments. The first point concerns entities not covered by the law. We propose to include the President or the President of the State Nuclear Safety Office. This applies to Section 2. The second point of my amendment concerns § 149, which is a special provision on a personal surcharge when - I will quote - in paragraph 1. 2: National employees may also be reduced or withdrawn by a personal supplement due to a reduction in the amount of the necessary resources due to an increase in the pay rates. However, the sum of the salary and the personal surcharge must not fall. - I propose that this paragraph be withdrawn from the law for this reason: A personal surcharge is granted to employees when they perform extraordinary tasks. The rates of remuneration and increase respectively apply to all employees. Imagine a situation where there will be an increase in salary rates after negotiations with the unions, but there will not be enough funds, so personal surcharges will be reduced. This will affect the most busy and hardworking employees. We consider this a demotivating moment. The Supreme Court also noted that a personal supplement cannot be withdrawn or reduced in the event of a lack of funds. I know that I mentioned at the outset that the amendments that we are going to be reading today need not be supported by the coalition. Nevertheless, I hope that the reasons I have put forward will lead you to support my amendment. I said that the coalition's negotiations with the opposition had clear rules from the beginning. There was an agreement, and this opened the way to the approval of the Service Act and a new phase in the functioning of the state administration. Time will tell if we're going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, the last one entered into the general debate, will take the floor. In a detailed debate, I have two other Members more enrolled. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u20	Mr President, one Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to the seven amendments that I am presenting to you and which I think it is necessary to adopt in order to supplement the Civil Service Act so that there are not some mistakes that have occurred there, and some things that we may have forgotten. Firstly, I would like to say that the first amendment is the National Security Authority. This law does not apply to employees included in the Security Corps, General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, Military Police and Military Defence Intelligence. I would like to say that according to § 2 para. 1 point 8 of Act No.2/1969 Coll., on the establishment of ministries and other central government bodies, the National Security Office is another central body of the state administration, when its member is not a member of the Government of the Czech Republic, and in the case of this office it is an administrative office, a central administrative office. According to Article 79 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, paragraph 2 which is the constitutional basis for the legal regulation of the state service is that the legal situation of civil servants in ministries and other administrative offices is governed by the law, and it is clear from this provision that all civil servants in ministries and other civil servants prepared by the Civil Service Act must be covered. If this amendment is approved, it will also be necessary to amend the provisions of Section 136 of Law 412/2005, on the protection of classified information and on security competence, in the draft Act on the amendment of laws relating to the adoption of the Civil Service Act, which is print number 242. The other amendment concerns rather a legislative technical matter, namely that in Section 3, we mention "the administrative office and other institutions'. The Administrative Office for the purposes of this Act shall be the Ministry and another administrative office if it is established by law and is expressly designated by law as an administrative office or body of state administration. And another institution of this law is an institution which is regulated by another law if it carries out activities pursuant to Section 5. So I think that's where the other institutions need to be filled in. The reasoning is clear: a change in the heading of Section 3 and the addition of paragraph 2 to this provision is proposed in order to establish the conformity of other specific laws under which the regime of the Civil Service Act is also to be applied in other institutions. Although in the case of these other institutions, it is neither the administrative authorities nor the state administration. This procedure is based on the draft law on the amendment of laws relating to the adoption of the Civil Service Act, which is print number 242. For example, it is the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, the Agency for Enterprise Support and Investment CzechInvest and the Czech Technical Agency. Another amendment concerns the inclusion of a civil servant in the service with regard to his related and similar relations. This is the definition of a close person. At the end of § 43, a new paragraph would need to be added. 5 as amended by: (5) For the purposes of this law, a close relative is in a number of direct, sibling and husband, a partner. Other persons in relation to family or similar persons shall be regarded as close to each other if the other reasonably feels that the harm suffered by one of them is self-inflicted. - What's the reason? In Article 43, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The concept of a close person is used in the application of the Civil Service Act, which governs the classification of a civil servant in the civil service with regard to his related and similar relations. The new Civil Code does not define how, and does not regulate what, in fact, the concept of a person close to it is. Therefore, the concept of a person close to the Civil Service Act needs to be explicitly adapted so that the law can be applied. Another amendment - part of the sixth draft Civil Service Act, title in parentheses of the sixth draft Civil Service Act. This heading, from part of the sixth draft Civil Service Act, is to be stated in this text. Quote: Part VI. Compensation for damage, occupational injury, occupational disease and unwarranted enrichment - I underline and unwarranted enrichment. The Civil Service Act must also include, in addition to the rules governing the liability of the Service Office for an accident at work or occupational disease, legislation on unjust enrichment. It is therefore necessary to adjust the title of the sixth draft Civil Service Act. The next amendment already concerns the legislation of unjust enrichment, and that is that § 125 will be inserted under the present section 126, including the title in this text: § 126 Unwarranted enrichment - what it is. If a civil servant acquires unwarranted enrichment at the expense of a service office or service office at the expense of a civil servant, he must surrender. Secondly, an unjustified enrichment is the benefit obtained by carrying out the performance without legal grounds or by fulfilling an invalid legal act. Third, the reimbursement of amounts wrongly paid may, however, be requested by the Office of Officials only if the civil servant knew or had to assume from circumstances that they were amounts wrongly determined or wrongly paid within a period of three years from their payment. The numerical indication of other provisions of the Civil Service Act, starting with the present section 126, needs to be renumbered. [[17.40 hours]] And just to justify it. The draft Civil Service Act does not contain the legislation of unjust enrichment. It is necessary to add to the Civil Service Act the modification of this important part of the legal situation of civil servants. In fact, a similar legislation on unjust enrichment also contains Article 213 of Law No. 361/2003 Coll., on the service of members of the Security Councils, and nota bene legislation pursuant to para. 3 expresses a similar adjustment to the provisions of Section 331 of the Labour Code. So for these reasons, I believe that this is how it needs to be supplemented. The next amendment is the procedure for compensation for damage and unjustified enrichment, where I propose that Article 159 (2) (b) of the EC Treaty be amended accordingly. 1 for the present point (m) was added to the new point (n) - n as a popsicle - and stated in the following wording: " (n) compensation for damage and unwarranted enrichment'. The reasons for this are that, in the regulatory arrangements to be followed by the Civil Service Act, substantial matters relating to the legal situation of civil servants are to be decided in the civil service proceedings. However, it was left out in an exhaustive list, which contains § 159 para. 1 of the Civil Service Act, that in the proceedings in civil service matters, the decision will also be to compensate for damage and unwarranted enrichment. That really was left out there. If no supplement is proposed, there will be a substantial gap in legal regulation in matters relating to compensation for damage and unwarranted enrichment, and the service authorities will not know in what legal regime they should decide on matters of compensation for damage and unwarranted enrichment. Thus, if the Civil Service Act is not supplemented, neither will it be decided in proceedings under the Civil Service Act, which must be considered a serious error in matters of compensation for damage or unjustified enrichment. I think the last amendment is quite one of the key ones. We have all witnessed the President's speech here, which, of course, accidentally spoke of Section 174. We know that this is Section 173, which concerns the Deputys. I would suggest that we make such an adjustment: "§ 173 Deputy Prime Minister. The Deputy of a member of the Government shall be a representative of a member of the Government, with the exception of the personal rights or obligations of a member of the Government. The place of Deputy Prime Minister shall not be a stage of proceedings in the administrative arrangement of the Administrative Office. With regard to its competence, there may be no more than two Deputy Ministers of the Government and no more than one Deputy Head of the Office of the Government.' - What did I read? I propose here that it actually be transferred under § 173 § 190, which is based on legislation, respectively. of a standard approved by the government of Miloš Zeman and which had this provision in its Section 190, which actually applies because it has no effectiveness since 1 January, but in its essence it has been approved by both chambers, so it actually applies. So I suggest that a constitutional complaint may indeed be avoided, because this is a standard that has been approved, which is valid, and I would like to support it. These are all the amendments I've taken the liberty of reading to you. And, of course, during the next program, I will apply for their implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u21	Thank you, Mr Zavadil. Now my colleagues wanted to prepare me for a complication, but she solved herself. With the factual remark of Mr Klán in the general debate and the first one against those who have been enrolled in the general debate, the rapporteur who has the right to do so from the Rules of Procedure will speak. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, allow me to respond by your means to Mr Zabadil concerning Section 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 National Security Bureau. I'm already here at my last performance, if you've listened well to me, Mr. Ambassador, saying the same thing you say. However, I do not know whether your coalition partners, respectively. At present, the Ministry of Interior has explained that the National Security Office is working in a different regime. Although, according to the law of jurisdiction, it's the administration. So logically, the law should apply to him. However, he's in a different mode. That's one thing. And so if the law doesn't apply to the National Security Office, after the amendment of the law of competence, we'll remove it from the law of competence - and it won't be the central body of the state administration - and let's put it in place, for example. under the law of service in the security forces. It will be so united and maybe it will be easier and more transparent. We're gonna keep throwing all kinds of things around like this. And you can see for yourself that when coalition representatives are already giving such amendments, I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u23	I thank Mr Klán. I don't see anyone else logged in to the general... [[Ambassador Chvojka still reporting.]] Please, the rapporteur in the general debate. I ask my colleague Chvojka to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to briefly justify two amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. The one I formally subscribe to is the comprehensive amendment in which the agreement is enshrined not only by coalition parties, but also by agreement with part of the opposition. So this is essentially the complex amendment that he referred to, for example. Today, President Zeman. The second amendment is such a small amendment to the comprehensive amendment, where there was still a need to fine-tune some things on the big comprehensive amendment. I would just like to ask - and I do not know now whether this is necessary in the general debate or in the detailed one, if I repeat it. I would like this comprehensive amendment to be taken as the basis for the discussion and, where appropriate, the submission of further amendments. And then I would like to draw attention to something that has been brought to my attention by legislation - all the amendments that have been read into the original press, which went through the third reading, are not relevant. It means that that's what we're here for, that new ones are serving today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u25	Thank you, rapporteur. I am to see this as a procedural proposal that you want to vote on the fact that the comprehensive amendment that came out of the working group is the basis for the discussion for which individual proposals are submitted. [[The rapporteur, Mr Chvojka, agrees.]] We will vote on this procedural proposal without debate. I'm going to ask you for a new registration because I've signed you all out to find out the status of the present and not complicate the situation for the vote. [[Some Members come to the hall.]] When the number of entries is settled, I will begin voting on this procedural proposal, which, I think, is not controversial because there is a general consensus across the Chamber of Deputies. I think that there is enough already submitted Members. I've started voting number three. I ask who is in favour of this comprehensive amendment being the basis for the second reading. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 3, 96 for 95 present. The motion was accepted. Thus, by this vote, we have separated the general debate and the debate from each other in detail. The rapporteur will therefore be the first to speak in the general debate. [[Newsletter Chvojka off microphone: In a detailed debate.]] And then logged in as they are in order, plus a colleague of Birke and a colleague of Petrů. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u26	Thank you once more for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to apply briefly to the two proposed amendments. Under number 1187, there is a large complex amendment in the system, which anchors the political agreement of coalition parties with a part of the opposition, and under number 1197 there is still a small amendment to the big amendment, where some other things had to be adjusted. So Amendment 1187 and Amendment 1197. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u27	Thank you. Now, first, I'm going to read the apology of the Minister of Justice of Helena Válková at 18 o'clock. The President of the Úsvit Radim Fiala Club will perform with priority rights in front of his colleague Klánek. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, I will not speak for long. I will draw up the amendment that we announced at today's press conference, which cancels the political deputy. I will ask my fellow Member from the legislation to do this on the screen, because the version of the comprehensive amendment is so much that no one knows it. Today, Mr. President here said it's Section 174. In my opinion, this is Section 173. I want to make sure it's § 173 again. Yes, I get a report from the legislation that this is Section 173. So my amendment has already been duly justified by the President here today. I'm not gonna justify it anymore. I just want to read a brief explanatory report, but I want to say for those who would like to seek some consistency, some synergy between Castle and the Dawn movement, so I have to say that the political views of the Dawn movement and the President's view of the Service Law are known for a long time and there has certainly been no negotiations, no synergies or any consistency. It's just Mr. President's pure opinions and just the pure views of the Dawn movement. The amendment is quite simple. One. Section 173 is deleted. - Allow me to make a brief statement, which must be included in the reading of each amendment. By means of Section 173, the position of political deputy minister is de facto introduced into the Czech rule of law. The Minister may appoint two Deputy Ministers and their Cabinets who are not subject to the Service Act. Everyone works as the Minister's political nominees. This amendment repeals the above paragraph for the following reasons. Firstly, it is not appropriate for new expenditure related to the activities of ministries to be incurred in the context of the rising government debt and the search for internal savings in ministries. Secondly, it is not appropriate for the wording of the Civil Service Act to contain a paragraph that is out of line with the spirit and meaning of this legal standard. In the work environment, which will be regulated by the new wording of the Civil Service Act, they should not be engaged by the Deputys of a member of the Government, their activities do not fall under that law. As I said before, there is no point in commenting on this over the long term, because everything has already been said on this subject today. Just as the President will say what the Dawn movement will do if this paragraph passes and is approved. We will join the constitutional lawsuit on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u29	I thank Mr Radim Fial. Now in a detailed debate, Mr Jan Klán. A colleague of Daniel Korte will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u30	Thanks again for the word. Mr Vice-President, I hope for the last time today. I sign up for my amendments, which are conducted in the system as House documents No. 1050, 1051, 1052, 1053, 1177, 1178 and 1202. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u31	I thank my colleague Klán. Now, Mr Daniel Korte, Mrs Jana Hnyková, will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I have announced, I am reporting to my amendments, the first of which, concerning the non-recognition of education achieved at SNB University, is listed in the system under number 1184, the second which excludes the co-operation of the civil servant's service and the payment of the income allowance, is under number 1190. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u33	Thank you, Mr Korte. The words will be taken by Mrs Hnyková. Mr. Ambassador Chvojka will be ready. However, the rapporteur has already spoken. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up in a detailed debate on the amendment that is inserted into the system under number 1146. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u35	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. My colleague Chvojka spoke. Now, then, Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. A colleague of Podivínský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Members, allow me to sign up for the three amendments that are included in the system under the numbers 1204, 1205 and 1206. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u37	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. Mr Tomáš Podivínský now. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u38	Mr Vice-President, Government, Colleagues, as I have announced, the first amendment concerns the Czech Statistical Office, in two options, when in the first variant it is Section 55 and Section 57. I propose that the modification of the terms of the tendering procedures be supplemented by a new paragraph 7 being inserted into both of these provisions, in the following wording: "The special act may lay down the conditions for participation in the selection procedure by way of derogation for another administrative authority." In selection procedures, the participation of academic staff or other natural persons carrying out similar professional activities, the content of which corresponds to the relevant field of service, shall be limited within selected rounds. These restrictions are inappropriate under the conditions of the Czech Statistical Office, which require mainly high expertise of managers in the field of statistics. In order to ensure a high level of professional activity, this requires that a range of potential professional candidates be expanded accordingly. Following this change, it will then be necessary to amend the law on the amendment of laws in connection with the adoption of the Civil Service Act, or our House Press 242, in the following way: to amend the professional requirements for the occupation of a post of service presented when in Part 17 would be in Act No. 89/1995 Coll., on the State Statistical Service, as amended, inserted a new provision of Section 6a in the present provision, which would read: "Professional requirements for the superior's post of service. In the field of state statistical services, the selection procedure in accordance with the Civil Service Act at the post of service (a) the Director of the Section may be attended by a natural person who has carried out at least four years of activity in the field of the corresponding service to which he or she is reporting or similar professional activity over the past six years, (b) the Director of the Department may participate by a natural person who has performed at least three years of activity in the field of the corresponding service to which he or she is reporting or similar professional activity, and (c) the Head of Department may participate by a natural person who has carried out at least two years of activity in the field of the corresponding service to which he or she is reporting or similar professional activity in the past four years.'; Alternatively, for the Czech Statistical Office, then I propose variant 2. Article 55 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: 3 when the text of the provision is proposed in point (c) to insert the words "or research" after the word "academic" and to insert the words "high school or in a public research institution" after the words "in an enlarged population." The proposal provides for a declared requirement for the passability of state administration and non-state sector and, in particular, for the Czech Statistical Office, external experts in the field of statistics are indispensable. Therefore, in order to ensure a high level of professional activity of the Czech Statistical Office, it is not possible to prioritize the practice in the public administration over experience in the field of statistics for the selection of the director of the section. In addition, Article 55 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty does not apply. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (g) then I propose to insert the words "or research" after the word "academic," to release the word "leader" and to insert the words "or in a public research institution" after the words "in a university." [[18.00 hours]] In Article 55, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (h) then I propose to insert the words 'or research' behind the word 'academic' and to release the words 'which governs other employees'. Article 57 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: 3 then I propose to insert a letter into the text of this provision. (b) the word "or" and new characters. (c) in the wording "academic or researcher who is in the field of the corresponding service to which he is reporting and who is directing other employees" and further insert in the same provision the words "high school or public research institution" after the words "large-scale municipalities" shall be inserted in the same provision. Article 57 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the (g) I propose to insert the words "or research" behind the word "academic" and to insert the words "or in a public research institution" after the words "in a university." The second amendment is already considerably shorter, it concerns the State Office for Nuclear Safety, when § 2 para. 1 I propose extending the exemption of the Civil Service Act to the President and Inspectors of the State Office for Nuclear Safety, by way of letter. (j) " (j) the President and Inspector of the State Nuclear Safety Authority." The exclusion of the President of the SÚJB from the personal scope of the Civil Service Act would, in my opinion, contribute to the position of the SÚJB as an independent regulator, as required also in Council Directive 2009/71/Euratom as well as in the forthcoming EU Nuclear Safety Directive, and would also create a systemic solution to the position of regulators in the legal order. Article 17 (2) (a) 3 in the third sentence, maintain as a related modification the words "or the State Office for Nuclear Safety'. Article 19 (1) (a) of CRR 5 I propose to maintain as a related modification the word "or the State Office for Nuclear Safety." The independence and impartiality of the SÚJB is supported not only by restrictions on government intervention in the systemization, but also by restrictions on the possibilities of intervention directly into the organisational structure of the Office, and therefore I propose to include the SÚJB among the authorities whose organisational structure is approved directly by whoever is in charge of this office, who is in charge of this office. And the third amendment is the proposal concerning, in particular, the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when I propose that paragraph 4 be deleted in Section 67, without compensation. So Section 67 would then have only the first three paragraphs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u39	My colleague, I will interrupt you and ask the sněmovna for peace. Noise levels are high. It is not a reference to the press that is in the system, and I would like to make sure that both the screen recording and those who follow the proposals from the legislation are accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u40	Thank you again, Mr Vice-President. Once again, I would like to reiterate that this is § 67, when it would be completely and without compensation released. 4 on the ground that this provision for no reason introduces disproportionately harder arrangements than those laid down in the Labour Code for employees who are sent to perform a foreign service, when it relates to the transfer of work to another place, and that is possible only with the approval of the employee. The General Section 47 of the Civil Service Act allowing the transfer of an employee without his consent for a maximum period of 180 days, and paragraph 4 of paragraph 67 of the Service Act would affect employees who return from secondment by being able to be transferred to another administrative office for up to two years without their consent, would be forced to accept a lower pay grade and, in the case of central administrative offices which are not in Prague, would have to change their residence, thus significantly affecting their family life. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph 4 of paragraph 67 of this paragraph, staff seconded to a foreign service would be in a worse position than all other employees covered by the general provisions of Section 47 and therefore, in view of the constitutionally guaranteed principle of equality in rights, this paragraph 4 of paragraph 67 should therefore be deleted. Thank you for your attention and please support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u41	Thank you, Mr Weird. The words will be taken by Mrs Kovářová, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am reporting for my amendment, which is listed in the system under number 1180. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Mr Ondráček will take the floor, Mr Zavadil will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am applying to the amendment, which is listed under number 1193 in the system. And a justification that I would say briefly. These are paragraphs 55 to 57, where we are concerned with reducing individual ranks of security forces members who can apply in individual competitions. It is a kind of logical setting of the link with the rank of professional soldiers or other persons who can apply to the individual functions presented in the selection procedures. The matter was discussed on the Constitutional Legal Committee, where we intend to eliminate the disproportion between members of the security forces and soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic. The amendment was prepared together with colleagues from the Ministry of Interior. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u45	I thank Mr Ondráček. Mr Jaroslav Zavadil now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I sign up for the amendments in the system, which are listed under number 1192. These are seven amendments to six documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Václav Snopek will now take the floor, Mr Petr Fiala will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u48	Thank you, Mr President. With my speeches, I report to the amendment that is introduced into the system under number 1207. This is a way of settling possible civil servants' litigations. The current proposal addresses the system only through administrative courts and I am of the opinion that civil matters should therefore be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u49	Thank you, Mr Snopek. Now, Mr Petr Fiala, Mr Marek Benda, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I am signing up for the amendment, which I justified in the general debate, which is inserted into the system under number 1195.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marek Benda, now. A colleague Jan Birke will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u52	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apply to Amendment 1198, which is set out in the system. My colleague Vilímec wanted to bring him in, but since he's not here today, that's what I'm doing. I'm gonna try to find a correspondent somewhere to give it to him one day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u53	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Jan Birke, a colleague of Jiří Petrů will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to House document 1203 on the proposal for press 71. It is a recommendation to remove the Institute for the Expert Examination of Causes of Accidents from the scope of the upcoming Civil Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u55	Thank you, Mr Birke. Now, Mr Jiří Petrů, the last one ready for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u56	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to read the amendment to the comprehensive amendment to the Staff Law proposed in Section 70 at the end of the text of paragraph 1 to add the words - I quote: 'or the performance of the duties of Member, Senator, Member of the European Parliament, Member of the Government, Deputy Member of the Government or vacant Member of the Council'. [[18.10 hours]] A brief statement of reasons. The comprehensive amendment is adverse to civil servants who choose to serve as a Member or a Senator or to perform a vacancy in the council of the municipality or region. It means that with such employees, they will be able to terminate their service after six months. In the comprehensive amendment adopted as the basis for today's discussion, Paragraph 70 of paragraph 1 states - again, I quote: "The State staff member shall be assigned to his original place of service after the resignation of the reason for the change of service under Paragraph 47, 48, 63, 64 or 69. Similarly, this applies to the termination of a non-service assignment, suspension of a service due to military exercise or emergency service.'; The proposed amendment proposes that, in a similar way, this be possible for civil servants who have been elected Members, Senators, Members of the European Parliament, to serve as a member of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister or as vacant members of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-002-001.u57	I thank Mr Jiří Petrů and ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. There were no proposals to vote at second reading or proposals to be put to the vote before the start of the third reading. This means that we have exhausted today's meeting day. I'm interrupting the meeting by 10. 9. 2014 within 10 hours when the third reading of this bill will begin. Have a good evening and goodbye.
