ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u1	24. Members of Vojtěch Filip, Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová, Stanislav Grospič and Vojtěch Adam's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 328/1999 Coll., on Civil Cards, as amended /German press 234/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 234/1. I now ask that Mr Vojtěch Filip present the motion in favour of the appellants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you for the first time in this parliamentary term, but for the third time in fact, to the problem that arose after the adoption of the amendment to the Civil Cards Act after 2010, respectively. after 2011. It is a matter that concerns those who have been limited to their rights to qualify for rights and those who do not have these rights or acquire them - and now we have judgments on it - in a very strange way. Those who grow up and are affected by a mental disorder or an inherent defect and cannot express themselves are declared entitled by the court at 18 years of age and, at the same time, the court decides in the second paragraph of the resolution that they do not represent them, but may represent their parent, who, in his own way, is responsible for their actions - if he ever finds out about them. So these people who have acquired rights in this way - and I could serve the specific judgment of the District Court in České Budějovice, when the mother, Mrs. S, represents my son I.S., to not name names, however, when she finds out. What's the problem? The problem is that we created this by not marking it as a citizen's license, a kind of white horse. Because if someone signs a contract and the third party doesn't know, the contract is valid, because he really has the verdict that he's qualified for legal action. That's what's real now. Moreover, there have, of course, been some litigation since then. One lawsuit was even presented in the media 14 days ago, and it has an international element because we put such a white horse into a trade agreement with a third party who is a legal person in the Federal Republic of Germany, so we will certainly have an international dispute on this matter soon. That is only why I am seeking to support a matter which, in my opinion, is quite clear and supported - I supported it here in 2011 - 80 district courts, which were addressed, all the regional courts, supported by the state prosecutor, the notary chamber. We insisted that this is not a question of disrespect for those who are limited to legal acts due to mental disorders or birth defects, but that it is a question of protecting those third parties, because the State cannot then ensure that there is no excess that can have far-reaching financial, property, but also for example. health consequences. So in this respect, I believe that I have said the most important thing in addition to the explanatory report, and I ask you to consider how we will treat this proposal this time. I believe that there is a reason for which Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, should, in particular, remedy the mistake that has become the Minister of the Interior, Radek John, who has advocated, I would say, in a rather senseless way, against the will of the judicial system, against the will of the judicial system, the prosecutors and the police, which, in my view, harms not only the citizens of the Czech Republic, the interests of the Czech Republic abroad, which can be demonstrated today by the judicial disputes that are not, unfortunately, still final, but which will soon reach legal power, and then may cause us to do so by the European Court of Human Rights or by the European Court of Justice. The text of the law is quite simple, i.e. I don't think it's a big deal. The person who feels that - that's different from the proposal we had earlier - that's what it says on the card application. [[13.20 hours]] That's the Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 in transitional provisions, when it is essentially supplemented, under what conditions it is done. And the original text, that is, what is added to Act No. 328/1999 and in addition to other laws, the limitation of jurisdiction by a court decision, including custody information to the extent: name, if applicable name, surname, birth number, date of birth or registered office, if the guardian is appointed by the local authority, or the prohibition of residence imposed by a court decision. In Section 75, points (c) and (d) are added and the original points are referred to as (e) and (f). Effectiveness in order to prepare for this is proposed this time three months after the publication in the Collection of Laws. In this respect, therefore, I note that this is the third attempt to correct this either by mistake or by someone who wanted to prepare a white horse's state decision in civil and other relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I register two applications with priority rights, the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club and the Vice-President of the ODS Club. I'm just gonna ask if I can invite the rapporteur back, or if you want to get off now. Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur, who is Mr Pavel Havíř. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present my report on this amendment to the law on the proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Zuzka-Bebarová Rujbrová, Stanislav Grospič and Vojtěch Adam for a law amending Act No. 328/1999 Coll., on Civil Cards, as amended. As the petitioner has already said, this amendment essentially responds to the previous amendment of this law, namely Act No. 424/2010 Coll., which fundamentally changed the scope of data entered in the ID card with effect from 1 January 2012. If the government's position, which you have at your disposal, aside from one of the fundamental arguments for rejecting this amendment from the government's point of view, is that this information is available to public authorities in the information systems of the public administration, I would rather focus on a few practical remarks on how this law could be applied and on what problems its practical applications may bring, which I have obtained on the basis of a discussion with public authorities. The amendment envisages and provides for the registration of residence bans and restrictions on nationality in the identity card. However, it does not define any other prerequisites for working in practice. If the document is to contain something, it is up to the citizen to request the said dates or changes in the document. This means that every obligation at this time is mentioned in Section 14 of the Act, which specifies the obligations of the citizen. However, the amendment does not provide for an obligation to apply for registration of mandatory data, be it a prohibition of residence or a restriction of self-righteousness. It is therefore necessary to provide, as one of the obligations of Section 14, that a citizen is obliged to apply for a new document in the event that the said fact or change occurs - a prohibition of residence or restriction of rightfulness. While it is partly imposed in a transitional provision, it is only for those citizens who would have been concerned with that provision at the time of the amendment's entry into force. Follow-up obligations of citizens are no longer sufficiently specified. And now a few notes on the two data that should now appear in the civil documents. No stay. The amendment only provides for the prohibition of residence imposed by the court, not by the municipal authority in criminal proceedings. At the same time, it does not specify the extent to which information on the prohibition of residence is entered from the document, which concerns the municipality's residence ban and what is its temporal validity. The identity card is issued for a period of ten years, the residence bans laid down by a large majority are issued for a shorter period. It is therefore clear that that provision would only lead to an increase in the exchange of documents and thus to an increase in the cost of producing these documents. To limit self-righteousness. The amendment proposes registration in the document, where, in addition to the indication of the restriction of jurisdiction, there are other particulars of the guardian - the name, surname, birth number and the name and registered office of the entity. If we consider that the scope of the restriction of jurisdiction is not kept in any register and a citizen with limited jurisdiction must always document with the Office a judgment of limitation with its content, it would be more appropriate for the guardian to present, as has been so far, evidence of the provision by the guardian. That would be unnecessary to write down the identity of the guardian. Account must also be taken of the fact that during the period of validity of the document, the guardian may change several times, thereby changing the document itself. What is important from my point of view in the practical application of this law is, above all, the factual form of the identity card it has at this time. The ID card is basically in the form of a credit card. The possibility of writing data is very limited in this form and I think that even if we admit that it could happen, and it would probably have to happen, to write long written strings, because otherwise we would probably not fit into the format, so this fact itself is quite, in my opinion, a significant technical complication. Nevertheless, I believe, in accordance with the petitioner, that in particular information on the restriction of rightfulness is essential for its bearer, and for this reason I do not agree with the Government's position, which is clearly negative. I recommend, from my point of view, that this law be passed in the event of no approval pursuant to Section 90, to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am now opening a general debate. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Mrs Černochová and then Mr Tejc will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I read this draft and listened to the translator, I couldn't help but remember Vodňanský, Skoumal and Štibich and their picture inventory of Bedřich Bobš, especially the paintings of Queen Elizabeth is sitting with the tractorists and the painting of Zátiší with the ID card. I don't know why. But in any case, I would like to veto the procedure under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u7	Yes, I'm registering your veto. Now, please, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I will allow myself to go even further in my proposal on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party Club and allow myself to propose this bill to be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u9	Yes, we will vote on this proposal. Now, please, Mr Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree in principle that the law cannot be approved at first reading. The fact that he was vetoed is probably reasonable, because I cannot identify with everything that is stated in the law, and I could not vote in favour. This is, in particular, a question of a ban on residence, and there I think that the Government clearly demonstrates in its opinion the reasons why, in my view and in the view of the Government, this measure should not be re-established in the law. On the other hand, in the case of legality and data relating to it, I think that the Government's position does not state all the possibilities and facts, since it refers to the obligation for citizens to present a citizen's card only in relation to public authorities. I'm sure that's indisputable. It's true. But each of us has the right to make a deal with someone or not to make a deal. And each of us has the right to enter into a contract only with the one who proves the identity card, from which it is clear that it is the person we believe to be the person with whom we conclude the contract and, at the same time, the person who has full legal capacity to do what is said by the old terminology, i.e. self-righteousness. It is self-righteous and can conclude a valid contract. [[13.30 hours]] That is why I think, and I criticized it from this place as well as my colleagues from the KSČM at the time when the new regulation of civil documents was approved at the time, and we pointed out that it was this very information, but as well as the indication of whether the person concerned was married or single, it is essential, not for that person or for the State, but for all third parties entering into legal relations with him and concluding a contract with him. Because it's nice that you make an invalid contract, but you'll never get to the money that you and the person who didn't have a chance to make the contract again after you've been called into invalidity. That means it's legally solvable, yes, it is. But it's not really gonna be solvable in 99 percent anymore. And I guess there's no other way to agree that we could create a certain way of making white horses, because many of our fellow citizens are inventive. So that's why I dare ask not to reject the bill so that we can proceed to second reading. That doesn't automatically mean his approval. It is absolutely necessary for the Ministry of the Interior to deal with technical parameters, and maybe it will come up with another arrangement that we could draw up in the form of a comprehensive amendment or a new proposal for a government bill. Here I think the position of the Home Office will be important. But to advance the proposal to second reading and not reject it, because it is, in my opinion, meaningful. And if there is not a proposal from the Organising Committee to make this law also known to the Constitutional Legal Committee, then I would like to ask that, in the event that it is not rejected, the vote on this matter should also be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u11	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Since a motion to reject the proposal has been tabled in the general debate, I will put it to a vote. Initiating vote. Oh, I'm sorry, I forgot the final words. So please the plaintiff, if he's interested in taking the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't blame those who want to create these white horses that they're proposing rejection. I'm not surprised. And I do not defend myself at all and I assumed, which is why I did not say in my introductory words that there would be no procedure under § 90 para. 2 approved. I do not defend myself from the reasoning in the various committees and committees if we prepare enough appropriate conditions for this. I'm willing to put forward concrete proposals, concrete things, specific writings, where after 2011 the excesses that somebody here wanted to trigger have happened. And I say this quite deliberately, because I believe that this was the intention to damage a certain circle of people here, to damage even the name of the Czech Republic, because it could not, of course, just remain within the borders of our country. I will therefore also present the current judgments concerning the area of determination of self-righteousness and, at the same time, the determination of the guardian, which I consider to be an illogical step, which the court must take, because that is what the law is currently saying. Therefore, I do not understand why a person who is declared to be a court-martial should also be limited by the fact that he is appointed a guardian, either in the same judgment or in a different judgment. So that's the thing that's important. What bothered me, and I thank my colleague Tejc said he said it here, in the government's opinion. That they were focused on the fact that it's technically problematic to keep changing the ID. Please, when someone gets married, gets married, and when they get divorced, they also change their ID, because there will be vital figures that he's single, divorced, etc. What kind of argument is that? That's no argument at all that I keep my personal documents in order. In this respect, it seems to me that the opinion of who wrote it for the government, or when the government approved it, is a bit ridiculous or a mockery of what we are presenting here. As if they didn't know the views of the Municipal Court in Prague, for example, where the Chairman of the Administrative Chamber of the Municipal Court clearly pointed out the great problems they would face. And he's a guy who doesn't just teach it at the law school, he decides at the first stage of the administrative thing. I would like this House to be more reasonable than the House, which was here by 2013 before it was swept up by early elections and passed through the second reading, and I will be happy to discuss this with my colleagues together on the various committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u13	I, too, thank you and ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final words. It's not like that. I'm registering an application with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u14	I really don't want to delay, but I want to protest what's fallen here. Just trying to make sure that the data is really the least necessary for identification. Not as much as necessary to spy on the persons concerned. For example, divorced, married is no longer mandatory, as has been for many years, is no longer mandatory in the identity card. If I can show it, I don't have it anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-24-ps2013-019-04-015-024.u15	Thank you. We will therefore now consider the vote tabled in the first reading of the motion for rejection. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. [[Applications from the diaper for check-out.]] Okay, well, I'm canceling this vote. I declare it confusing. I'll check you all out, and please register with your cards again. I'm reopening the vote and asking who is in favour of rejecting the first reading, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 77, to which 139 are registered, for 32, against 91. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. By its decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I have registered here a motion for a hearing on the Constitutional Legal Committee. We will vote on individual proposals separately. We will now vote on the proposal for discussion of the Public Administration Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 78, to which 140 are registered, for 137, against one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will now vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 79, to which 140 are registered, for 136, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. This bill was ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm done discussing this point. We will now proceed to discuss item number
