ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u1	134. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Paragraph 134, which is to say that the replies to the written interpelations of Members with whom they have not given their consent, were placed on the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the House in a ranking that has not yet been exhausted. We will begin with an interview by Mrs Miroslava Němcová on the situation in the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, the Archive of Security Forces. This is the House Press 353, which was suspended last Thursday. I'll ask if there's a report from the MP. Yes. The opening words of Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a block of responses to the written interpelations that were raised by the various Members of the Chamber of Deputies to the Prime Minister or the members of the Government. I turned to the Prime Minister some time ago, for example, to the question that we are going to discuss now, the question of what is going on in the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. Perhaps some of you have seen from the media that the situation in this institution is very unhappy. There were unprecedented disputes, internal disputes that gradually decompose the organization. The heads of this institution were placed there and recalled by others in a way that ultimately proved illegal at least in a first instance dispute. I am now referring to the withdrawal of the current Minister of Culture, Mr Herman, who has been removed from the post of head of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. In the first instance, the court ruled that this appeal was unlawful. His successor, Mrs Foglová, caused at least a breakdown in the constitution when I put it in such a word, and I therefore turned to the Prime Minister to tell me how the government is looking at this situation and how much danger it considers the Constitution for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes to be. Let me just remind you that this constitution was created on the basis of the need of the then Chamber of Deputies, then to examine our past to the public, to learn everything that affected both the totalitarian regimes by which the Czech Republic went through in the 20th century, and to concentrate on knowing both methods and actors who are directly responsible for our country's being thrown into these two totalitarian regimes, namely the causes and persons who relate to totalitarianism in our country. That's why I think, based on what's going on there, on the breach, there's a risk that there's going to be limited access to researchers who have been completely free so far. They had access to those folders that had already been digitized, even those that had not yet been digitized. They could deal with their research efforts without limit. Now there is a risk that they will be implemented - it is usually called reorganisation when the real purpose of the matter is to be obscured - some reorganisation changes that at least prevent digitalisation. This process, which is essential to gather all the documents the Institute has so far, so that they are preserved in good form for all future generations. At the same time, to enable absolutely free research work. The Prime Minister replied to this interpelation in a way that I reject, because I have learned absolutely nothing about how the government intends to prevent documents about our past from being deliberately stored in the Archive of Security Forces, so that only some selected researchers can access them. This is what I consider to be the whole key to this matter - both to slow down digitization and to prevent those who are not chosen for some subjective reasons as the right persons who should be allowed access to these files, so that they will be prevented from doing so. Therefore, I would once again ask the Prime Minister to explain his approach and his future steps towards this matter, how the government wants to prevent access to archives from being compromised and, on the one hand, the people who are already being talked about being kicked out of the Institute are more than two dozen, with the fact that the new workplace, where digitised documents are to be transferred, i.e. to the Archive of the Security Forces, will not be as free access as it has been so far. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to explain to me what he will do in this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u3	Thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to respond very briefly to Mrs Němcová's speech, in which she responds to my written reply, which I sent to her for her interpelation. I must say, then, that if you had the opportunity to get to know my answer, then you know that I have tried to respond in detail and specifically to all the individual questions that the Member asked me in her written interview. [[9.10 hours]] I think it would be a waste of time for me to recapitulate my answers, which I sent to the lady in this matter. I merely want to note that the establishment of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes has been significantly politicised since the very beginning. It was the subject, the establishment of this constitution, the adoption of the law, the specific form of the law, was the subject of a dispute, and a significant dispute on the political scene. We've had this debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Finally, the right then passed the Act on the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes in the form it wanted. I was a member of the opposition party at the time. Social democracy was in opposition. We had a different view of the creation of the constitution, but in the end, the right pushed through the legislative anchoring of the constitution in exactly the form it sought. As Mrs Němcová is a member of the ODS, who was one of the main authors of the law, Mrs Němcová certainly knows that the Government has no influence on the functioning of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. The Constitution was defined in a separate law and was fully subordinate to the Board of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and the Government has no influence on the Council or on the composition of the Board. The Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has an influence on the composition of the Board and is the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which is able to elect members of the Board of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. Even in the election process, the government has no way of interfering. It is not, therefore, that this constitution is subordinate to the government through the Ministry of the Interior, as it is to the archives in the Czech Republic, which are part of the Ministry of the Interior, and are therefore subordinate to the government, but this constitution was a special law that the right-wing parties enforced under the Senate. The Senate therefore has exclusive competence in the choice of the Board, and the Board then has exclusive competence in the appointment of the Director of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, and it is the Director of the Institute which has exclusive competence in relation to its structure. So much so as to be clear from the point of view of competence, but I am convinced that the Member knows. Thus, the government does not intervene and does not have the opportunity to intervene in the functioning of the Constitution, and there is clear political responsibility of the Council towards the Senate. And the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic should be the body that evaluates the functioning of the Council and the functioning of the Council. This does not, of course, mean that there is no debate in the public space and on other public institutions as to whether the constitution works the way it should, whether it works within the law, whether it fulfils the purpose it has to perform. If the Member asked for my opinion, I am mine. expressed his opinion by voting here yesterday at the House of Deputies, when I rejected the proposals to reduce the State budget to the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, i.e. to withdraw the funds intended for the functioning of this Institute. I think that you know that the government has also allowed some minor strengthening of the budget of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, and this small increase in its budget has remained part of the budget even after yesterday's vote by the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies for that, because this will not mean any complication in terms of the running and functioning of the Constitution for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. I really want to stress that the questions asked by the honourable Member have been very honest in answering them. I do not share the concern of the honourable Member that the Constitution is in decline, that the Institute is unable to perform the functions in respect of which it was set up, but unfortunately the constitution was politicised in the way it was created. At the moment it is connected to the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and unfortunately it is strongly reflected in the discussions on the composition of the Council on the functioning of the Constitution. I think that this is not happy, and I would consider it a much better solution if the Institute were part of the standard institutions that are being set up for this purpose and did not have a special position and was not directly connected with the Chamber, which is necessarily designed politically, which is, of course, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. But in the past, this concept has been enforced, I respect that. I want to assure the Member that the government is not going to complicate the life of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes in any way. We're ready to cooperate, we're ready to cooperate. I personally support mine. cooperation of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes with similar institutions abroad. As Prime Minister, I have also met with representatives of associations that associate similar institutions with the collection of documents and proofs of the effect of totalitarian regimes in the 20th century, and I believe that it is necessary for such institutions to function professionally, to work in accordance with laws and to map complex history in the 20th century, whether it was a period of the Nazi regime and the Nazi occupation of the Czech Republic, or whether it was a period after 1948, that is, the period of the communist regime in Czechoslovakia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I open the debate and ask who wants to join the debate. Mrs. Němcová. After that, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u6	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I will confirm that the establishment of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes was accompanied by a very heated debate. I remember very well how part of the left-wing spectrum wanted to prevent the creation of this constitution, how we were convinced that researching our past was necessary to understand what had happened and who had created structures that had prevented free and democratic developments in our country during the communist totalitarian regime for 40 years. I remember this very well, Prime Minister, that it was also part of social democracy and gradually added the next steps that this institution wanted to challenge. I remember the reservations of the current Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek to this institution. Of course, the establishment of this institution was necessarily a major political conflict. We were interested as an ODS in uncovering our entire totalitarian past, and there were parties that didn't have that interest. The conflict of these two interests has caused great political tensions, and I must say that even after all the years and after all the peripetia that are linked to this constitution, I am very glad that it has finally succeeded in pushing through and that at least part of the documents that were to be digitised should have been made available for future generations, we should have known what was going on in our country, that part of these documents is saved and processed as well. I would just like to add, and this results from an interesting article by Daniel Kaiser, published on October 25 in Echo, when he writes that after seven years of scanning, he literally writes for his life, digitized about 20 percent of StB archives, and it can be assumed that by doing so, or in that way, important materials, roughly half of them are digitized. However, the pace of digitization under the circumstances is an essential variable. In a few months, the Constitutional Court's verdict may fall on the Supreme Court's initiative, which, in the name of personal data protection, can severely restrict access to the archives of StB, today provided to all. It's a state bordering on anarchy. The catch is on what political conditions it will change. If digitalisation is carried to the Archive of Security Forces and at the same time the state gets another tool to select researchers to release to the archives of StB, we can say that open archives are the past, writes Daniel Kaiser and compares exactly what you also, Prime Minister, spoke about, the state of similar institutions in post-communist countries. [[9.20 hours]] In particular, Poland is picking up in this context. You had the Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz visiting here last week or the week before last. You told us here in the House what you discussed with her. I, under the circumstances, when you well know the state of the constitution, how valuable it is and how it is necessary to understand our totalitarian past, would like to ask you whether you also discussed with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland why their constitution works, why it conveys all documents to all researchers without choice, and why Poland is interested in knowing their past thoroughly, learning from it, making it available to young generations who were not alive at that time, so that no one can tell them in the future that it was somehow different, because there will be documents available here. I wonder, Prime Minister, if you have also spoken to the President of the Government of the Republic of Poland on this subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u7	Thank you. The Prime Minister, after whom Mr Fiedler is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u8	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the last question of Mrs Němcová is concerned, Mrs Ewa Kopacz and I were not discussing institutions of this type, which, of course, does not preclude us from discussing the matter at any time in the future, but it was not part of our agenda and it was not the subject of our negotiations, although we also touched on the totalitarian past, because we were talking about the next January, the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, the International Day of Holocaust Victims, and undoubtedly the examination of the Holocaust is linked to the documentation of the period of action of totalitarian regimes here in the territory of today's Czech Republic. So we did not discuss the archive directly, but we touched on the issue at least in connection with our intention to remember with dignity at the end of January next year the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camp in Auschwitz. As far as the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes is concerned, I must say that the government is really interested in making the Institute a renowned independent scientific institution that will have a reputation not only with the Czech professional public but also with the professional public abroad. I want to confirm that the government is not preparing and will not implement any steps that would prevent or complicate processes such as digitization or disclosure of information on the functioning of totalitarian regimes in Czechoslovakia in the 20th century. As regards the question of the speed of digitisation, I also tried to answer the Member in response to her interpelation, because there is indeed a difference if digitalisation is being carried out so-called. microfiche, which is part of archive material. There is a different pace when you have to digitize archivals that have only been preserved in paper form. The pace there is naturally slower. But I'm really not an expert in archiving, I'm not an expert in digitization. This is where I rely on the evidence I had prepared from my co-workers at the Office of the Government on this matter. I just want to say that the government is certainly not interested in taking steps to complicate the functioning of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. I don't think there's any reason. That it is necessary for us to look at our open-eyed past, to try to describe it objectively, so that the objective description, the true description of the past, is also reflected in the education of our children, so that we do not forget what happened in the 20th century, because the experience is unique on the one hand, on the other hand it is a warning. And of course, if we don't remember some things, if we don't realize some things, we can also be doomed to experience them again in some different new mutations. I also want to assure the Member that I do not really have any political interest in this in any way disrupting the functioning of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, simply because I represent a political party that has been banned mostly during totalitarian regimes, representing a political party that has tens and hundreds of political prisoners, whether under the Nazi occupation or then under the Communist regime, and after all, the activities of these people and the fates of these people should be mapped, should be documented, their writings should be digitized, so as not to be lost and present for future researchers. I, of course, also recorded from the perspective of the media discussion about how the constitution works, but I feel that the scientific community, the community of experts and specialists involved in this area, that is, the archiving of the past, is very small, and the smaller the community, the sharper it is, there are opinion disputes. There are undoubtedly different groups of opinion, there are different groups of people who differ according to who they sympathize with, who they do not sympathize with, and I think it is extremely important that we, as politicians, maintain some distance and, as politicians, maintain some perspective over some of the disputes that are going on in this community. Because, in my opinion, it should be important for us to create and maintain systemic assumptions for objective mapping, for objective archiving, for the continuation of the digitalisation process, for economic conditions to be created here. That may be the last comment to be made by Mrs Němcová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Fiedler and then Minister Herman are now in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I would simply briefly evaluate or respond to the Prime Minister's speech. Prime Minister, through Mr President, don't be angry with me, that was a lot of unnecessary words and a few specific messages, your answer. I'd like to comment on what you said here, of course. Before that, I know the interpellation of Mrs Němcová to you and your response. I have come to know these documents, and my amendment, which I tabled, was based on the data that you made in this reply. That is why I am very concerned when you said here that you voted against this amendment yesterday. Since your reply said, there were clearly stated figures, how many employees are to be released from the Institute and transferred without compensation - not transferred, but to be released without compensation and elsewhere new jobs are to be created, and therefore I would very much like, even though this amendment was rejected, to know your answer, why you rejected this, the amendment, and to preserve the situation where the amount of wage remains the same when employees were released from the Institute. And the second question I'd like to ask. You said here that when this constitution came into being, that it was strongly under political influence, and you mentioned that he was essentially under political pressure, unfortunately, still and still, to this day and ever. So if you're inclined to change the definition of this constitution, that is, by a law that has been defined, if you would support the idea of redefining this, that we would incline to the Polish system that has been mentioned here today, which is given to us as an example, as an example of a well-functioning institution. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u11	Thank you. Minister Herman is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u12	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, this question, as you understand, concerns me very personally. So I'm going to allow myself a little recapitulation of the entire state. When I won the tender in 2010, along with the ten candidates from which I was selected for the Institute, I came to an institution that was very much destabilized. I succeeded during the three years that were allowed to me out of the five, for this time my mandate was determined at the beginning, so I managed to stabilize the institution. The digitization that we are talking about has been very good and the archive administration of the Ministry of the Interior, which is actually the highest supervisory authority, has never had significant comments on this process. [[9.30 hours]] About 25 million pages have been digitized. This corresponds to the number that has been raised here. It's hard to estimate, about 20 percent of digitized materials, because imagine that in the Archive of the Security Forces, if we took the papers and put them together like this, about 17 km of archives and about 5 km of microfiche. That means it's a considerable volume of material. According to Law No. 181/2007 Sb., which is a special law for the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and the Archive of Security Forces, in 2030 the Archive of Security Forces is to go to the National Archives with this whole fund, of course. That is why Law 181 clearly states that whoever is to carry out the digitalisation of these materials is the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. It is precisely for one of the digitized copies to remain available to researchers of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes even after the Archive of Security Forces passes under the National Archives. This fact has been challenged from the very beginning by some specific persons who did not conceal themselves by having an interest in reducing this activity. Since the 2012 Senate elections, as the Prime Minister has described precisely the mechanism that the Senate is indeed the institution that has exclusive competence over the composition of the Constitutional Council, after the 2012 Senate elections, the Board of the Institute has been elected, which has begun to put me under very hard pressure as the director at the time to proceed in violation of Act 181. This pressure has been driven most strongly by the chairman of this council, Dr. Benešová. When I faced these pressures with arguments that, as director of a state institution, I could not violate the laws in force and under the laws in force, it is not possible to transfer the digitization which the law gives to the constitution elsewhere, so I was told: So seek other than legal ways. When I made sure I didn't hear correctly, this was confirmed to me, which, of course, I refused. Finally, the constant disputes, which essentially consisted of being tasked with an impossible number of tasks, that further and other tasks were constantly raised in impossible terms, which basically exhausted my team of colleagues, I was dismissed in the spring of last year. I must say that the whole situation is not entirely simple and politically clear or party-politically clearly divided. I've already talked about this here. Just as I perceived the very strong support from then Prime Minister Petr Nečas, I also perceived it from then and actually the current President of the Senate, Mr Milan Štěch. That means those things weren't guided on a party plane. I think it is very important what the Prime Minister said here that the Senate really has the authority of personnel. If I am informed, the Senate really has a very serious interest in calming down the situation in the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and wants to deal with the composition of the Institute Board within its powers. As you know, I, as Mrs Němcová has already been mentioned here, won the lawsuit in the first instance because I sued the constitution or the board because I was dismissed from the job illegally, which the court confirmed in the first instance. I am convinced that the current administration of the Institute has been introduced through illegitimate channels and that part of the members of today's Board are people who are violating their powers, and I will certainly try, as the Prime Minister said, as a member of the Government, to the extent that it is possible for the Institute to function in the right way. With regard to the funds raised in the state budget, I spoke to the Minister of Finance who told me that these funds would be tied up and that without the decision of the government, they would not be possible to use them so that it would not be possible to take advantage of these funds for the mass release of people who are uncomfortable to someone. Unfortunately, according to the information I have, the funds are intended to be released, and therefore to be paid out, and at the same time to recruit new workers. So these places are actually going to be financially dubbed. By binding these funds, this absolutely illegal position should be prevented, which I am, of course, pleased. This means that we should all strive to ensure that this institution, which is very much needed in the process of cleaning up historical memory, can function so that it is not constantly attracted by various disputes, whether conditional party-political or other interests, because there are indeed other competitive interests between different institutions. But I don't want to open it here, but unfortunately it also plays a role. And it certainly is our common responsibility for this state institution to be part of an overall mosaic of memory institutions as a reputable institution. I was behind the creation of the Platform for European Memory and Conscience, where the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes was one of the founding members. Unfortunately, the current situation in the Institute has caused the Institute to be excluded from this platform, or left before it was expelled, which is evidence of something. I therefore believe that an independent court, the continuation of my trial will be in January next year, will decide. I'm sure I'll respect the decision of this court. This will have some effect and it is then important to respect this decision. I would like to say one more word about what was going on here before yesterday's vote on an increase in the budget. I suppose some of you got text messages and e-mails about my person, where I was blamed by the current administration of the Institute, that I'm settling my own personal disputes here, that I have various revansist cravings and so on. We meet here for a year. I hope that in that year you could understand for yourself what my thinking was and whether I was or not a revanishist. If there's anything very distant in my mind, it's just any sort of account handling. And I don't understand the word forgiveness as weakness, but as an expression of strength. But, of course, the one to whom forgiveness is to be forgiven should also be pronounced and opened to some repentance. I don't see that on the side of the constitution at this point. However, I am prepared to be very factually and rationally involved in any activity that should help the Institute. Because when we look at the facts and figures, unfortunately, the scientific activity has fallen very much, the exhibitions are few, the publications are almost none. There was a massive layoff after my release. These are the facts that we should bear in mind, and try really calmly, without emotion, without any side ventilating intentions to make this institution, as I said, a reputable memory institution that we could rightly be proud of, and not ashamed of, because some of the moments that are currently around this institution are unfortunately approaching that second category more than the first one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u13	Thank you, Minister, and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. Mrs. Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u14	I am still reporting to the debate because the Prime Minister mentioned in his second speech the importance of all the documents available to the current Czech Republic. These documents bind to our totalitarian past, their importance for the education of future generations, for the work of educators, for the study of our modern history. In this context, I would like to ask the Prime Minister something else that may not be entirely related to the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, but certainly to the subject. I received information about the project Stories of Injustice, which devoted ten years to the education of primary and secondary school pupils in the field of modern Czechoslovak history, with emphasis on the period of communist Czechoslovakia. This project is at risk because this year the subsidy of the European Operational Fund administered by the Ministry of Education ends. This project was primarily financed from this particular project. No new grant was announced, i.e. an alternative, something that could follow up on this project if it ended and could facilitate the work of both educators and the education of students and pupils. I wonder, then, when you spoke about this, Prime Minister, whether you know the Unfair Stories project, whether you know about the fact that, for example, within the Moon of Film in Schools, people from this project organized 6 500 screenings of documentary films and discussions with memorials. Approximately 250,000 students thus learned the stories of active opponents and victims of communist injustice. 63 films were provided to schools over the past ten years from this very project. Along with them also methodological and information manuals. The Pedagogians have roughly participated in them in 2,100 schools. In five years of the project 112 teams from primary and secondary schools were involved from where we live. Students have already awarded the Sixth Story of Injustice award this year. Our revolution stores information and photos of 57 classes into the Internet map application. More than 3,000 signatories of 57 classes have joined the Memorandum against Memory Loss. I give these figures so that we are aware that the education of our students and pupils is really information about modern history, an area that is not easy to run. It seems strange to me that we must use money for this key type of education, which is not invested primarily by the government itself, but is mainly drawn from various grants and projects of European money. I would therefore like to make sure that the government remembers this area of teaching modern history, information about the totalitarian communist regime, the preparation of aids for educators so that this education can continue without any difficulty. I want to know, then, when the Prime Minister says that he is giving hands from the USSR, that he is not actually responsible for anything, although he knows well, and the Minister of Culture has mentioned that the council was re-elected in 2012, when the Senate had absolutely most of the Senators under the CSSD, so there is no way that he could take this political responsibility out of himself, but when he does it, when he simply wants to interpret it that way and thinks that we are going to force this answer, I would like to know the answer to what the real priority of the government in education is, and in particular the specific answer to the question of what will be next with the Stories of Injustice project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u15	Thank you. Mrs Semelová is also reporting for the debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u16	Thank you. Good morning. I would just like to say that I agree with Mrs Němcová that the teaching of modern history at our schools is at a very bad level and that it should certainly contribute to improving and increasing the objectivity of history teaching. Unfortunately, I can no longer agree that the program contributes to this The stories of injustice, which are a very disorientation form of teaching history, but maybe it would be a good idea to really continue the program and make the stories of injustice out of this new society, which is here, it means to show the stories of injustice that are happening now, here, over the 25 years, when people are out of work, when people are on the street because they don't have the right to live, when people who don't have medicine, and so on, when they're beggars. So I think this should continue, and in 25 years, there's a whole bunch of injustice stories!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u17	Thank you. I've had a lot of tickets come to me, so I'd read them, and then I'll give you my word. For today's meeting, Mr Jandák apologizes for health reasons; for the morning's meeting, the Minister of Defence apologizes from today; from 9 to 11 for working reasons, Mr Urban apologizes. Today's day from 10 to 12 for working reasons of the seminar is apologized by Mr Berkovec. Furthermore, from 13:00 p.m. today and tomorrow from day to day, Mr Zemánek apologizes for reasons of work. From 9 o'clock on medical grounds, Mr Kořenek apologizes. Today from 12:30 a.m. to 3:30 a.m., I apologize for taking part in the pension committee. Mr Koskuba states his apology, who apologizes from the whole day except for an interval of 10.30 to 14.30 when he will be present at the hearing. Thank you. And now I will give the floor to Mrs Němcová, and then Minister Herman is signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u18	Only a short gloss, although one always wonders if there is any point in losing Mrs Semelová's performance. But after all, I can't forgive myself for even a brief remark. First of all. I trembled in the ground when the lady said she agreed with me. It makes you think something's catastrophically wrong. Secondly, I must say that I know her rhetoric as a coffee maker. Just in every situation where we come across what was happening in Czechoslovakia at the time of the totalitarian regime, which Mrs Semelová defends with words - for example, in the murder of Dr Milada Horáková, that she had actually asked for it almost herself, because she confirmed all the accusations that were prepared against her then by the Soviet advisors, and our Urválek and all the other comrades of the general prosecutors raised with the help of the workers of the fabric "put them down, shoot them and kill them!". I understand that Mrs Semelová needs to reverse anything, so she will reverse in a way that she has transferred to us here, but never in the thinking people who know what kind of marasm we lived in at a time when her party was privileged from the Constitution without restriction, i.e. totalitarianism, and what kind of marasm in non-freedom our country was exposed to and what all this meant for the fates of hundreds of thousands of citizens of Czechoslovakia at that time and what it notes us today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u19	Thank you. Minister Herman is also registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to respond to the performance of my colleague Semelová. I suppose you're familiar with the term chuckle. The term chucpe means, for example, when I take it into Nazi reality, that the Nazis executed the parents of a little child, who were then deported with the argument that he was an orphan. That reminds me of the lady's speech. I would just like to say a few numbers here. At the time of their 40-year reign, the Communists executed 248 people, among them mentioned by Dr. Milada Horáková. At the borders on barbed wire, by which they wrapped our republic, virtually. Southwest border, killed about 760 people. The last one was shot in the summer of 1989 in Sumava, Watchtower. 8,500 people were beaten to death without trial in prison without any convictions. Very nice about this atmosphere speaks very nice theatre play Price Slaps, which I could see this weekend in Uherské Hradiště and talks about torture by electric boots from some of the investigators at the time. And unfortunately, this has also been resolved by eternal justice. 23,000 rehabilitation sentences after 1989 talk about how many people were unjustly condemned during the Communist government. I agree that even today everything is not okay, that there are really people out of work, there are some on the street. These are serious problems that need to be addressed. But if anyone wants to compare thousands of dead and hundreds of thousands of unjust judgments, I really can't call it anything other than what I said - chuchpe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u21	Thank you, Minister, and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. Mrs. Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u22	I am only applying because I will propose to the Chamber of Deputies to vote on my proposal, which I will say, that I do not agree with the Prime Minister's reply to my interpelation. And I want to justify this by saying that a number of questions are still very serious to answer, and just when the House supports me in this disagreement, there will be room for these questions to be answered. I'll read them here just in case. There are 15 of them, and I think they should really explain to us what is happening in the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. Firstly, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he knows who and when decided to increase the budget of chapter No. 355 Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes beyond the medium term perspective. Secondly, for what purpose there has been an increase in the budget by even 44 functional posts for the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and for what purpose for the Archive of Security Forces. Thirdly, as justified by this increase by the Constitution and the Archive. Fourthly, I want to ask whether the Prime Minister himself knew or whether the Minister of Finance knew about the planned dismissals by the USSR. Fifth, whether you knew that the planned changes were not properly discussed at the Constitutional Council or submitted to the Constitutional Departments. Sixth, whether you know how many employment disputes have already been lost by the Institute or the Archive of Security Forces in court and how much money they had to pay their former employees. Seven, if you know that they have sat down within a specified period after losing labour disputes within the meaning of the relevant legal standards of the harming commission of both institutions. See if you know who they called guilty of violating the Labour Code. For the eighth time, how many other labour disputes or other legal disputes are being waged against the Constitution or the Archive. Ninthly, why the Archive of Security Forces wants to illegally acquire the staff of the Institute's digitalisation under its control and does not deal with activities that it has an obligation to carry out, such as the processing and making available of archive funds. Ten, if you can indicate how many jobs are currently held by the Security Services Archive. How much, and this has been mentioned here, is managed by the archival - or I would no longer ask you this question. 11th time, how much longer will it probably take to process these funds. For the 12th time, how is it possible to search documents and information for compliance with Act No. 262/2011 Coll., on participating resistance and resistance to communism, in these additions, especially the department of former Public Security? For the thirteenth, which are not included in the Autonomous Information System of the Archive of the Security Components from the records of the documents and archives taken from the Provencies of Public Security. For the fourteenth time, I would ask you to introduce monthly statistics on the processing of expert opinions from April 2013 until now, which have been sent within the meaning of Law No. 262/2011 Coll., and a justification for why there are fewer and fewer. The 15th, last question is: I request the publication which was approved by both the Board of the Constitution and the Director of the institution for 2013 and 2014 and has not yet been published by the Institute. Since these are important questions, they relate directly to the subject which is the content of my interpelation today, I therefore propose a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies that the Chamber of Deputies does not agree with the Prime Minister's reply, and I will request that these answers be supplemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u23	Thank you, Madame. I ask whether anyone else is still reporting to the debate on this point. Mr. Fiedler, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u24	One more very short time. I've asked the Prime Minister here some questions he's obviously not interested in answering. I just think that, Prime Minister, through the President, you yourself give the seriousness and level of these interventions that you have criticised for the participation of Members. So if you would like the Members' participation in the interventions to increase, I think you should also listen more to the questions that fall in the debate. I also listened to the questions raised by Mrs Němcová here. I think it is worth the answers, and I call on us to support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u25	Thank you. Once again, I ask if anyone wants to join the debate. I see no one, in which case I am done with the debate, and I have a request for withdrawal. So I'm gonna sign you all out, and I'm gonna call the gong from the front door of my colleague and colleague. [[A brief pause for Members to come.]] Given that we are not a quorum, I will do this by interrupting the House of Deputies for 10 minutes and asking the club presidents to ensure that Members are present at the hearing so that we are able to be heard. We'll continue at 10.08 hours. [[Voices from the O.R. that the presence has increased.]] 67 Members are needed for quorum, 61 Members are required. We are not a quorum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Given that the number of Members present has stabilized to 81, I am of the opinion that we are in a position to settle. Before we vote, I would also ask Mrs Němcová to reiterate her position on this point on which I will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will just tell those who have not been here that I have asked the House for a resolution that the House does not agree with the Prime Minister's reply to my interpelation concerning the situation in the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. I have read 15 additional questions that I will not read again, it makes no sense, you will find them in the screen record that I want the Prime Minister to answer, and it is precisely to answer these 15 other questions that can be used when we say no now and there is room for further debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u28	Thank you. Before we vote, Mr Schwarzenberg, President Schwarzenberg, has a replacement vote card for number 12. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the disagreeable position of Mrs Němcová. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 157, for proposal 35, against 39. [[100 Members present]] The motion was denied. We will therefore proceed to another written interview with the Prime Minister. Mrs Miroslava Němcová again has this interview, and it is about leaking information by wiretapping and information from investigative files into the media. Interpelation together with response shall be submitted as a printing of 364. This hearing was suspended last Thursday. I am opening the debate to which Mrs Miroslava Němcová is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u29	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this interview was interrupted last week, but it was interrupted once before, at the stage when we opened the debate. I've had an entrance performance here on wiretapping leaks. I have communicated the basic thesis of my interpelation, i.e. that I consider it unsustainable, that there are repeatedly massive and targeted wiretaps, even recently private calls, and that this violates untouchable privacy, which is one of the fundamental rights of citizens, especially if crime is not committed. I mentioned here that Lenka Bradáčová, the Chief Attorney General of Prague, also commented on the wiretapping. I have received the Prime Minister's reply, which probably shows a fact that makes sense to talk about here, because whether some media and some journalists publish wiretaps is one thing. The second thing is where these wiretaps come from. If, in his reply, the Prime Minister notes that in 2012, the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps dealt with leaks in 204 cases and most of the leaks were investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic, i.e. 180 cases, if, in 2013, as the Prime Minister's reply shows, the inspection dealt with leaks in 157 cases and most of them were investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic, i.e. 142 of the 157, there is a topic to discuss. We are to discuss whether the Police of the Czech Republic has a system set up so that these leaks cannot occur so that the most important right, namely the right to a fair trial, to the integrity of privacy, is guaranteed here. In this respect, I cannot agree that the Prime Minister has provided me with the statistics, then he also writes that GIBS is carefully discussing every fact that he is saving thoroughly, but I did not find any conclusions on what GIBS came up with and what the government of the Czech Republic can do. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to inform the House and clarify and extend them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u30	Thank you, Madame. The Prime Minister is about to answer. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u31	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already acted in the first part of my response to my written response to Mrs Němcová's interpelation. I can only confirm that illegal disclosure of the facts relevant in criminal proceedings is unacceptable, as this, among other things, calls into question the principles of a fair trial. The problem with wiretapping is a serious problem, and the question is whether there is any experience from other countries that have a democratic rule of law, how can we limit leaks into the media at some stage in the conduct of criminal proceedings that count on wiretapping as evidence. I believe that we cannot do without the use of wiretaps as evidence for criminal proceedings, given the need to combat crime, a criminal activity that is in a number of cases in a very sophisticated form. The question is, of course, the extent of the wiretapped wiretaps and the fact that these wiretappings are not charged to third parties who are not involved in any serious crime, but also if these wiretappings are leaked within some phase of criminal proceedings, their rights are violated. I think that's probably the worst case that could happen. This means that the use of this evidence, the use of the wiretap, does not merely explain the crime and punish the perpetrator, but actually leads to some externality, which is the fact that it affects citizens' rights and, after all, their rights to privacy and to the preservation of dignity. What is, of course, even more complicated is whether all the information that is published in criminal proceedings and has an impact on the rights and dignity of those who are mentioned in these eavesdroppings, how the matter will then be taken into account in a situation where the persons concerned are not found guilty of serious crime and are, for example, guilty of serious crime. in the course of legal proceedings, all suspicions are removed and they are exempt. If Mrs Němcová spoke here about the number of investigations conducted by the General Inspection of the Armed Forces, GIBS, against the Police of the Czech Republic, then, of course, the statistics show a certain discrepancy between the number of these investigations in the individual security forces. But I think that the discrepancy is given in principle objectively by the fact that the police are concerned with the activities involved in the investigation to a large extent. So here is also statistically the greatest potential to leak information. I am not aware that there has been any deterioration in the current trend in the last ten months, and I am not aware that we have seen any cases of this type in the last ten months, which would need to be referred to here, directly on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, in the debate we are having. I would like to assure Mrs Němcová that, on the basis of the opinion of the Minister of the Interior, which, after all, the Minister of the Interior applied in the form of an initiative for the operation of the General Inspection of the Armed Security Forces, this matter is paid due attention to GIBS, and naturally all the initiatives that will come in such a matter, and, after all, any initiatives relating to the possible criminal activity of security forces members, are impartially and independently investigated and investigated by GIBS. I think that as far as this category of crime is concerned, it might be worth it if this area and the statistics, which would be specially targeted at the area of information leaks, and possibly. leaking information from files, wiretaps, so it would probably be possible for the relevant parliamentary commission, which supervises the General Inspection of the Security Corps, to provide more detailed information on trends in the light of the detection of this crime, i.e. how the number of offences detected in this context is changing. I think that this could be the subject of negotiations for both a permanent commission to monitor the use of wiretapping and telecommunications traffic records, so, of course, an incentive for the commission that is in charge of the operation of the General Inspection of Security Corps here in the Chamber of Deputies. [[10.20 hours]] The government is ready to discuss any changes to legislation that would strengthen citizens' rights to protect their privacy. So we are not defending ourselves from this discussion at an expert level, and if there is agreement on the political scene to move forward with legislative protection, I think that is also the possible direction of our further considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u32	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies that have arrived. From 9 to 10.15, Vice-President Jermanová apologizes from today's meeting, and from 14.30 he apologizes from today's meeting, Mr Petr Fiala. Today from the afternoon meeting, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil apologizes and on 11. 12. For work reasons, Mr Roman Kubíček apologizes. Also, Vice-President Jermanová has a replacement voting card number 13. We will continue the debate and I ask who else is reporting to the debate on this point. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u33	Hello, Mr President, government, colleagues, colleagues. I think that Mrs Němcová did not ask so much about the number of police leaks, but how such wiretapping or leaks can be prevented. The problem with my practice over 23 years with the Police of the Czech Republic is that there is a system error. If a police authority decides to wire or record, about 15 to 20 people know about it. Then it's very difficult to check which of the 20 people leaked that information before the wire was wired, or who leaked the information when the wire is already being wired and working. The Police of the Czech Republic, following a change of view of the investigation, left the procedural autonomy of the investigator and was created so called. The police authority - the police authority will process the record, submit it to their superiors, recommend and approve it, then go to the prosecutor's office, and the court that allows or agrees and orders such an act, but there are always three or four other people involved. If you add it together: police authority, operation - let's say two, investigator - let's say one, recommends - one, we're four, approves - one, that's five, someone who keeps a journal of classified information - six, secretary - seven. We're going to the D.A.'s office. State's Attorney -- eight, the one who keeps the diary -- nine, the writer -- ten. Same thing in court - 11, 12, 13. Then it goes to the department of specialized activities, which these things provide for the Police of the Czech Republic and other security forces, there we get to 14, 15, 16. And no one knows how far that number goes. So let's go back to the possibility that such an act be carried out by a process-tested or independent investigator who was responsible for what he was doing and was in contact with his state's attorney, who is supervising, and then we can get to the limit of that number, say, four to five people. And it's to find out where it's coming from with four or five people who are getting to know it, or 25 or 20, of course, the number is somewhere else. The leaks of classified information have occurred, occur, and maybe it will be, because the problem is in the system, and that's how we set up the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm asking... Mr. Ambassador Klučka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u35	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I think it is my duty here to respond to some of the things that are related to the work of the Permanent Parliamentary Commission for the Control of the General Inspection of the Security Corps. I could give you a few suggestions when we were asked to investigate, investigate the leak of information relating to wiretaps, which we did, and basically I don't know the case where we'd come to a specific conclusion as to who caused the wiretaps. From the statement of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, which works under the authority of prosecutors, we always believe that the law has not been broken. The last case of a possible leak, not a wiretap, but a leak from the current days. This is the problem of the condition and the condition of mobile phones working with the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps. This information has become a media sensation with the support of some other people and has essentially caused a significant security risk to this institution. We don't care. I think that we will also follow this case to such conclusions, as there is criminal proceedings concerning the possible leak of this information in connection with the security risk related to the Security Strategy document of the General Inspection of Security Corps. I mean, even though the Commission of the Act on the General Inspection of the Security Corps is only carrying out control, it is not defined by anything, what the control means, what the control is, that this Commission has not yet received at this point in time from the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies - here I assume that it is Section 47 and subsequent - by order. This is simply a problem relating to two laws - the Act on General Inspection and the Act on Rules of Procedure. I was talking about this at the last amendment to the Rules of Procedure, that there is even a problem with the Supervisory Commission. This paragraph needs to be addressed in such a way that we are absolutely clear about what we can do in the control body and what we cannot do. However, I want to reassure my colleague through the President, we are paying great attention to this area of information leaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u36	I thank you, Congressman, and I ask who else is reporting for the debate. Mrs. Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u37	Thank you again for the floor. I have already thanked the Prime Minister in the debate that took place a few weeks ago because his position in the sense that privacy protection, protection of individual rights stand as a fundamental pillar of a democratic society, and I felt that he shared my position, and for that I thanked him. I did not feel that we were going against each other, that we were looking at this question in a completely different way. I want to thank my colleague Klučka now because I know that the work of the Commission is not easy at all, although I am not a member of it, but I know from my colleagues for the Civil Democratic Parties who are on this committee or who is on this committee how difficult it is there. [[10.30 hours]] Of course, when we say here on the microphone that, although the inspections of this commission are underway, we are dealing with individual suggestions and cases, and we control the general inspection, and we find that we will never get the person who either leaked information or wired someone, it is very frustrating to ourselves that, as legislators, who have at least some area of control through this institution, they will eventually come to a bitter conclusion and say to themselves: we have never learned to expose the culprit. And now I don't mean it at all against each other, I relate to myself. This is simply a sign that something is not right, that it is not meant to be this way, that it must be - and I thank the Prime Minister for the proposal - a reasonable discussion has been held about what can be changed so that we do not hear a similar statement in a month or six months here again. So I wouldn't want to put the situation politically, something dramatic right now. I just think it would be right for both the members of the BIS review board and the government to actually find a way in the debate, what steps can be taken, what steps are acceptable and what can we do to prevent leaks of information or wiretaps from destructing the democratic system in our country. That's the first thing. So I intercede for some impulse from this commission or government to come and make a suggestion on the table. Secondly, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he was talking about the last ten months, where he does not have any information about the situation getting any worse, that is, the average figures that he wrote to me in 2012, in 2013, that perhaps there is no deterioration, so I would still ask him to give me, say, a quarter of a year's notice of what really happened in that year, in 2014, what is the situation in this area of wiretapping, what happened in the Police of the Czech Republic, what is GIBS doing, how they stood up to this issue, because I think Parliament will certainly have to be more active on this matter. It is impossible to tolerate the current state of affairs. Therefore, in order to close my word, I will not ask the House to disagree with the Prime Minister's reply, because I think there is a reasonable way to take that correction together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u38	Thank you. Another party to the debate is the Prime Minister with priority rights. Mr Chalupa will then be prepared and then Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u39	Thank you. Němcová Members, I would just like to confirm that I will prepare a written answer to the questions that she asked at the end of the last point, which concerned the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, because these were new questions beyond the original written interpelation that was discussed here, and I would also like to promise that once the relevant data for 2014 are available, I would also provide them in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u40	Thank you. Please contact Mr Chalupa's microphone and prepare Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u41	Good morning, Prime Minister, dear colleagues. As a member of the GIBS Audit Committee, I want to follow up on my previous speakers, and I really want to confirm that GIBS, or the GIBS Parliamentary Control Commission, is dealing with the situation. I want to say for myself that this does not, in my opinion, apply only to wiretaps, but it will have to be what has essentially been discussed here - look at GIBS as a system, i.e. both in terms of legislation and in terms of functionality. It also has to do with the fact that I would like to intercede for the House to support the activities of the Commission to strengthen its equipment, perhaps even its competences, so that it is not a toothless commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u42	Thank you. Now, please get to Mr. Gabal's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that this debate has taken place across the coalition and the opposition. I would consider it very important that Parliament's or government land be found to debate the whole problem - for two reasons. Firstly, the likelihood of leakage is growing as the number of mobile phones and their involvement in the crime of ordinary and organized crime, and international in particular. Secondly, what we cannot do is monitor electronic communication. I would say that, in terms of the ability to treat the process legally and to control it, we are in a deep hindrance to the development of the situation not only in the international dimension, where we have seen huge problems now, which are, but I think also in the domestic dimension. Second thing. My impression - the impression, please - is that the legal treatment of wiretapping is one thing that is being controlled, and the other is the legal regulation of their use in judicial practice. There is so narrowing the space that, in my opinion - and it is a hypothesis - there may be situations where frustrated police officers or whoever else, when they see that the information doesn't get to the trial stage, there are controlled leaks of the information, because they just feel it's safe to say it's important. And the third thing. Personally, I think that there is an increasing need for a share of those activities that are not actually heading towards legal assessment and are safety-prevention. And there's a lot to talk about so we can get in touch with reality, because I don't think we really have any contact there. I would ask the Prime Minister if the government would take any initiative on this matter and we could talk about it, how to simply stand up to this agenda in an organizational and legislative manner, get in, participate in it. My personal opinion is that I am not afraid of the growing share of monitoring and wiretapping, provided that they are regulated and controlled by Parliament, that is, they have a kind of democratic environment in which they are implemented. And that the risks are growing safe or criminally, it's just understandable. Thank you. I'm over the clock. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u44	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mr Klučka. After that, Mr Ondráček will be prepared. I know you're gestured at me here, that you want a factual remark, but I think we can maintain order without a problem. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u45	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I thank my colleague for allowing the performance, it won't be long. I have forgotten in my prejudice only to the Audit Committee of the General Inspection of the Security Corps that there are two other bodies that can deal directly with this, and this is how the control commission of the BIS, not the GIBS, but the BIS, also the monitoring commission for wiretaps and the use of operational techniques by the Czech police.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u46	Ambassador, I'm so sorry, but he won't give it to me. There aren't many of us here, and yet there's noise. Please, a noose on the left if you have something to say to do in the lobby, because we listen to the contributions of people who are at the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u47	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Because I'm also a member of the wiretap committee, and unfortunately, Daniel Korte is not here at the moment, who is the chairman, so he could also say that this situation is being dealt very intensively with by the commission. And sometimes we come across things that are unfathomable about, for example, the communication of statistical wiretapping issues to those that have been carried out, and there is an obligation to inform the person who has been bugged that he has been bugged. After very difficult discussions, we got to some statistics concerning the Ministry of the Interior and today we are completely hopeless with the statistics of the Ministry of Justice. These are the problems that make it difficult for us to bring these matters to an end and to identify exactly the space in which we could then clearly point out to the person who has committed this matter. Now I'm talking about elopements. [[10.40 hours]] When it comes to setting up a wiretap, I must say that even at the level of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, it is already known, and it is in a report that is, I think, even published, a drop. It's going down gradually. It can be said that this is not because there is also a decrease in crime, but that it is already very much considered in which cases of wiretapping as evidence to deploy. And that's quite an optimistic report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u48	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Ondráček's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u49	Thank you again. Colleagues, I must agree with my colleague Gabal, who said that some of the police officers are experiencing or may become frustrated, and then a controlled leak of information that they obtain from the investigation files, or possibly. From wiretaps. Such a situation may occur, and I think it may occur in some cases. It is, of course, the problem of criminal proceedings that is being conducted and the evidence that is being provided in the course of criminal proceedings, and then, of course, what is the further handling of such information with prosecutors and judges. However, we should be aware that the preparatory proceedings for criminal proceedings are not public, and if we were to find out that classified information, which is currently wired and is always at least reserved, will only be seen by a limited number of people, so we would be much better aware of where such a leak could be from. I still remember the anti-corruption police when I had to send every record not only to my superiors, but also to my superiors in the Republic corps, that is to say to the Deputys, possibly. Director of such a department, and only they have agreed what I can issue for the material and which I can distribute in relation to suspects or persons with whom we have conducted criminal proceedings. And if a fairly wide range of people know that information, it's always the problem that information can leak. Please note that the preparatory procedure for criminal proceedings is to be non-public or private under the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that the circle of persons conducting such proceedings should be as narrow as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u50	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. It's not like that. To be sure, I will ask Mrs Němcová whether she wants to vote in agreement or not. We don't have to vote. Thank you. We will now proceed to another interpelation and that is the interrupted interpellation, which was intermediated by Mrs Němcová to the Prime Minister on the negotiation of credit agreements. This discussion has been suspended in the general debate, and we will continue there. Please, Madame, I'm sure you want to join the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u51	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I don't know if we're going to be able to negotiate this interview or whether it's going to be interrupted. I will try to be brief, however, for my colleagues and colleagues I must remind you that in this interpelation I am dealing with problems related to the questionable practices of some companies that negotiate credit agreements when purchasing used cars in cars and allegedly miscalculate the annual percentage rate of costs, the RPSN in a nutshell is called. According to the information communicated by the former Director of the Czech Trade Inspection for Eastern Bohemia, Jiří Pěkný, who practically revealed these, not a single inspectorate of the Czech Trade Inspection has correctly assessed the calculations of the annual percentage rate of costs. He then contacted the Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek, who, I think, also had some interviews with Mr Pěkný in the media. I quote from his letter to Minister Mládek: "We have reasonable concerns that compensation for consumers who have been so damaged can reach CZK 6 billion. I would like you to create a control group where the Ministry of Finance would be involved, because I suspect that some employees of the Ministry of Industry and Trade could also participate in this illegal conduct outside the directors and central inspection of the Czech Trade Inspection. I would like to participate in the functioning of this control group so that this case, which has no equivalent, is exposed and the guilty are punished." I have now quoted Mr. Jiří pěkný from a letter from the former Director of the Czech Trade Inspection for Eastern Bohemia. However, the result of his initiative was not what we would expect that immediately the ministries would begin to examine the state of affairs, whether there had been an error, is the calculation correctly, is not well, the inspection of the Czech Trade Inspection is being done correctly or not, simply what would logically occur. It was said that the only response was the removal of Director pěkný from his post, allegedly because he accused his colleagues of incompetence or corruption without any thorough investigation in the matter itself. The Prime Minister replied to me, I would almost say that in a broad way, but this answer was, I think it is also written there, and if not, I believe that the Czech Trade Inspection has formulated it, and therefore, from this one point of view, a matter which is very serious was considered, and it would be desirable for the opinions of people who are not directly involved, which is certainly the Czech Trade Inspection. This could be one of the opinions, but not the only opinion. Then the second thing to mention is that the Prime Minister prepared an answer to this interpelation, or a team of his co-workers, his office, which was in some form mediated, and that led Mr. former Director Jiří pěkný to file a criminal complaint against the Prime Minister stating that his response to this interpelation should have touched the interest of this very person. I am now opening up this subject. I would like the Prime Minister not only to use the arguments of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority as an institution that is attacked from the wrong procedure in his reply, not just for me, but for the Chamber of Deputies, but to explain his personal position to me and to inform me of the role played by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, namely the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Mládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u52	Thank you. I see the Prime Minister is getting up and going to the microphone. Prime Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I have also received a rather extensive submission from Mr Jiří pěkný concerning the conditions, perhaps the alleged conditions, to the Czech Trade Inspection. I have forwarded the entire submission to the D.A. so that the D.A. has this information at its disposal and can possibly verify whether the accusations and the information given by Mr. Pěkný in the submission delivered to the Office of the Government, whether they are relevant and not constitute a suspicion of any criminal activity. I would like to add my intervention to the fact that I have, therefore, forwarded the information provided by Mr Pěkný Office of the Government to the State Attorney's Office. As far as my answer is concerned, as it is formulated, the answer is formulated from a legal point of view. I believe that it could not have been otherwise formulated, that is, it is formulated on the basis of the legal situation in force, it is formulated on the basis of the real activities of the Czech Trade Inspection, which have been carried out, and it is formulated on the basis of the opinion of the management of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority on the grounds of Mr Ing's appeal. Jiří pěkný from the post of Director of the East Bohemian Inspectorate of this inspection. The reasons I learned after questioning the Ministry of Industry and Trade as Prime Minister were also mentioned in my reply. [[10.50 hours]] As regards the substance of the matter of controls, in particular the issue of miscalculation of the annual rate of consumer credit costs in the case of the sale of used vehicles in cars, I would like to say that the RPSN rate is only one of many data which the Czech Trade Inspection controls in its supervisory activity. The calculation of the RPSN is complex. In the present case, the Czech Commercial Inspection has been found that credit providers, contrary to the applicable legislation, do not include a certain type of fee, namely the fee for the conclusion of the contract, counted against the principal of the consumer credit, in the formula used to calculate the annual percentage rate of costs, resulting in distortion of the actual amount of the annual percentage rate of costs. However, in a number of controlled cases, which were controlled by the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, such a practice was not carried out by credit providers. In these cases, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority assessed the calculation of the annual percentage rate of costs correctly, i.e. it was not an area phenomenon for all credit providers, but it was a phenomenon for some credit providers. I would also like to add that even in such specific cases as the case of the failure to take account of the fee for the conclusion of the contract in the calculation of the RPSN rate, the practice of the Czech Trade Inspection has been unified. Thus, according to the information I have received from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it should no longer be possible for the Czech Trade Inspection to proceed in any way differently to assess the data it obtains from its control. I would simply like to reject the claim that there is therefore some obligation of the State to the extent of perhaps CZK 6 billion, which should be spent to compensate consumers. On the basis of the legal situation in force, I note that possible compensation for consumers is a matter of private law concerning the contractual relationship between the consumer and the credit provider. And I would also like to say, and I think this is also very important, to point out that if the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, by not revealing some of the infringements of consumer credit providers, did not violate generally binding regulations and did not proceed even in violation of the principles of public authority. And here I have to say that one of the basic conditions of liability for damage is not fulfilled. So from a legal point of view, I don't think there's such a commitment here and that it's really a matter of event. the damage must be dealt with in a private relationship. So much very briefly to interpel Mrs Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u54	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of the next logged in, and that is Mrs Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u55	Thank you for the floor. I think that, in my question, both I and the President have described roughly what is going on here in their answer. The Czech Trade Inspection Authority did not have a unified methodology to control the annual average cost rate. In a number of cases, therefore, consumers were damaged. It can be deduced from this that the Czech Trade Inspection has progressed in one place in another and in another place in another way. I don't want to argue whether the legal situation of the matter is based on the state's obligation to compensate the damaged consumers, because it is certainly a complex legal issue that there is no room for, but even I didn't pay that much attention to the question, the legal responsibility. However, the resigned director of the Czech Trade Inspection states in his text that he thinks that the responsibility of the state is for this because in some cases the Czech Trade Inspection carried out the control and agreed that the consumers were so damaged, and in this he sees the responsibility of the state, or the Czech Trade Inspection is therefore an institution of the state. The second thing I feel very important about is that from your answer, Prime Minister, I would like to quote the following: Mr Jiří pěkný's request for inclusion - that is, in your answer - for inclusion in the consumer credit control group has been granted. In other words, he asked because he saw that something was wrong, he asked that a monitoring committee be formed, he wanted to be a member of it, he was granted. He was Pěkný member of a working group set up during the Czech Trade Inspection for the purpose of improving coordination and overall performance of supervision of consumer credit provision. The result of this group's work is material that significantly contributes to unifying the interpretation of consumer credit issues. And I would therefore like to know if according to your answer, as prepared by the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, engineer Jiří Pěkný professional work has contributed to remedying a matter which was definitely not okay - why was he then fired from work?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u56	Thank you. The Prime Minister is about to answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u57	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, I would really like to mention one more important fact. The purpose of the inspections carried out by the Czech Trade Inspection Authority in the field of consumer credit was to determine whether the audited entity properly complied with the obligations laid down by the legislation. The inspection report shall record the findings containing the findings indicating the shortcomings and indications of the legislation that have been infringed, including the supporting documents on which those audit findings are based. It should be noted that the control protocol was thus not verified that the conduct of the audited persons is in accordance with the legislation. Because if we applied such an opinion, it would actually mean that if the supervisory authority, and I have to say any supervisory authority, at that point in time, does not reveal the infringement of the controlled person, so that it is actually not an infringement. This is what I think would be a very dangerous premise, which would actually mean that any control by state authorities that would not reveal all errors in any case would actually amnesty the errors that were not identified during the check. I think that this cannot really be done from this point of view and this interpretation cannot be taken into account for the evaluation of the checks carried out by the Czech Trade Inspection Authority. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] As regards the reasons for Mr pěkný's removal from his post as Director of the East Bohemian Inspectorate of the Czech Trade Inspection, I must say that the Central Director of the Czech Trade Inspection has already commented on this in a press release of 19 June this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u58	Prime Minister, I'm so sorry, I don't want to keep you, but it's really loud in here, and I think it's pointless. Especially some of the crowds here are talking out loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u59	If I am based on the opinion of the Director of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, the reason for Mr pěkný's dismissal from his office was the dissatisfaction of the Central Director of the Czech Trade Inspection with the manner, appearance, negotiations and working communications of the Director who was summoned, both with him and with the other directors of the Regional Inspectorates. That is the answer I received to my question in the direction of the reasons after Mr pěkný was removed from his post as Director of the Czech Trade Inspection Inspectorate of East Bohemia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u60	Thank you and again please to the microphone of Mrs. Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u61	Thank you for the floor. What could they possibly have written to you, Mr President? That he was fired because he was bothering them and he saw under their fingers? They told you he was fired because he couldn't communicate, because I don't know how much to make it sound good and look good on paper. Unfortunately, we have a minute. I therefore propose to the Chamber of Deputies a resolution that does not agree with the Prime Minister's reply to this interpelation, stating that he himself adds that he has filed a criminal report on this matter. The penalty notice shall be filed against him. This thing will have a sequel. The House should deal with her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u62	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I am opening the vote on Mrs Němcová's proposal, which is to disagree with the Prime Minister's response to the interpelation. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 158, to which 129 are registered, for 28. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. This concludes the block of written interpelations and I am declaring a five-minute break for operational reasons. Thank you. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 11.00 to 11.00.]] Ladies and gentlemen, five minutes have passed, we will continue our negotiations. We should now focus on the firmly classified paragraph 58, which is the House press 134, the agreement on the ratification agreement between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic at second reading. We would then discuss the remaining items from the first and second reading block, or the items from the report block, proposals and others according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Let me remind you that at 12:30 we have a fixed block of polling points, points 98, 99, 100 and 101. It's round two. We're discussing paragraph 135 this afternoon, which is oral questioning. Before I give room to the speakers who will submit amendments to the approved agenda of the 23rd meeting, allow me to read the apologies that have come to my desk. It is Mr Novotný's apology for today's work, and it is also Mrs Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová's apology for today's meeting from 11.30 to 14 a.m. and from 18 a.m. to the end of the day. It is also an excuse for Mr Vácha, who apologizes for today's work-related negotiations, and it is also an apology for Mrs Lorencová, who apologizes for today's family-based negotiations. So we've done the formalities, and I'm asking if there are proposals for changes to the agenda. Yes, I'm registering Mr. Volný's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I may be annoying about this, but I realize the seriousness of the situation. I would very much like to ask you to include a point in today's meeting, it is the approval of the ratification of the Treaty, the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on improving international compliance with tax regulations and taking into account the laws of the United States of America on information and their notification generally known as FATCA. I would like to put this point on this morning after a firmly placed point by the Minister of Education. Unfortunately, I was vetoed yesterday and I would like to ask too many of our opponents if they could withdraw their veto on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u64	If you could at least give me the number of the point or the House press, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u65	It's a 311 House press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u66	Thank you. Another enrollment, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u67	Thank you for the floor. I wouldn't have got off if Mr Freeman hadn't said "unfortunately it was vetoed yesterday." So it looks like the opposition is holding back the proper negotiations here. The fact is, unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance neglected deadlines. Unfortunately, the Treasury forgot to cut the deadline. Since we could damage Czech financial houses, we do not want to do so, and although the Ministry of Finance is not working, we will not veto it. But I would like to make it clear why we are dealing with this in a process-free way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u68	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u69	Thank you. Good morning. On behalf of the ODS club, I would like to say that we withdraw the veto proposal after agreement with colleagues... with the club representative for YES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u70	Thank you. Now, Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u71	Please, I must respond through Madam President to my colleague Kalousek. Yes, I'm sorry about that word. I know why it was vetoed yesterday. I am aware of this and, on the contrary, I want to thank and appreciate the willingness of the opposition to both shorten and discuss. I'm sorry for my word, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u72	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u73	Thank you for the floor. I would like to propose that today we also include the House Press 144, the Energy Act, on the basis of the fixed points, so I assume that if a fellow Volný's proposal is passed, that would be the third point in today's negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u74	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else has a motion to change the agenda. It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the vote on individual proposals. Before we do, I'll ask you to lower the noise level. It's really hard to drive from here, and any suggestion can be distorted. Mr. Sklenák's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u75	I'm sorry. The House's energy bill is correctly 351.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-11-ps2013-023-07-001-134.u76	I'm fixing it. Thank you and we will now proceed to the vote. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby if some of them are there. We will now vote on Mr Volný's proposal, and this is the inclusion of the 311 press on today's day after the fixed points, i.e. the agreement already mentioned between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. Initiating vote. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] Okay, I declare this vote misguided. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to rejoin your cards. And now the vote is in session. I ask who is in favour of Mr Volný's proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 160, to which 117 are registered, of which 87 are in favour. I'm stating that the proposal has been approved. We will now proceed to the vote on Mr Sklenák's proposal, and that is the classification of the press 351, the Energy Act, after the already firmly placed points, that is to say, point No. 3 of today's meeting. Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 161, to which 122 are registered, for 102. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. So we will now proceed according to the revised agenda. The point we're going to be dealing with is
