ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u1	Member's promise Colleagues and colleagues, we will proceed to the pledge of new Members for Kateřina Konečná, Stanislav Polčák and Jiří Pospíšil, whose parliamentary mandate has expired. First, I will ask the Vice-President of the mandate and immunity committee of Mr Jan Chvojka to introduce us to the steps he has taken, and then he has read the Constitution prescribed a promise that the new Members will put in my hands. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon. Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members of the Government, allow me to inform you that on 20 June 2014, the mandate of a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Mr Jiří Pospíšil, has expired, by a statement made at the 10th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On the same day, the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was established by law to Mr Vladislav Vilímc. On 1 July 2014, Ms Kateřina, a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Konečná and final mandate of Mr Stanislav Polčák expired at the time of their mandate as Members of the European Parliament, which both Members received on 1 July 2014. In accordance with the provisions of Section 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the start of the post, which is legally incompatible with the exercise of the mandate of a Member of the national Parliament, both Members have informed the President of the Chamber of Deputies in writing. On the same day, the mandate of Mr Leo Luzar and Mr Martin Plíšek of the Chamber of Deputies was established by law. At today's meeting, the mandate and immunity committee adopted resolution number 70, stating that on 20 July 2014 the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic had expired, Dr. Jiří Pospíšil, born 24 November 1975, in the manner of the messenger of the provisions of Sections 3 and 6 respectively. (c) Law No Vilímc Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, and at the same time stated that on 20 June 2014, the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Mr. At today's meeting, the mandate and immunity committee adopted Resolution 71 stating that on 1 July 2014, a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Ms Kateřina Konečná, born 20 January 1981, expired in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. (f) Law No 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, and at the same time stated that on 1 July 2014, the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Mr. Engineer Leo Luzar, born 6 December 1964, arose. At today's meeting, the mandate and immunity committee adopted Resolution 72 stating that on 1 July 2014 the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Dr. Stanislav Polčák, born 21 February 1980, expired in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 (b). (f) Law No 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, and at the same time stated that on 1 July 2014 the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies was established to Mr Mgr Martin Plíšek, born 11 November 1974. In accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, Members Vladislav Vilímec, Leo Luzar and Martin Plíšek shall take a parliamentary oath. I ask the Members to appear before the Chamber of Deputies and, at the same time, I ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies to accept the promise of these new Members. Please, ladies and gentlemen, stand up. [[Everyone in their benches has risen. The appointments came before the President of the Chamber of Deputies.]] I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her Constitution and laws. I promise on my honor that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience. [[The new Members make a vow by saying the word 'I promise' and by handshaking the President of the House. Then they sign the promise.]] Gentlemen, congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u3	So let me welcome Mr Luzar and Mr Plíšek and Mr Vilímec among us and wish them every success in the parliamentary work. Mr Kalousek votes with card number 15. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. This is not the case, so we can begin the vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 1. Registered 173, 168, no one opposed. This proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that we have designated Ms Hnyková and Mrs Zelienková as the verifiers of the 12th meeting. I would like to inform you that, before the opening of the meeting, these Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend. Mrs Adamová within 16 o'clock for personal reasons, Mrs Bohdalová - foreign travel, Mr Böhnisch - personal reasons, Mrs Černochová - personal reasons, Mrs Fischerová - medical reasons, Mr Gabal - without reason, Mr Holeček - personal reasons, Mr Horáček - personal reasons, Mr Janulík - personal reasons, Mr Klaška - family reasons, Mr Kolovratník - personal reasons, Mr Nekl - health reasons, Mrs Němcová - without reason, Mr Novotný - working reasons, Mr Ondráček - personal reasons, Mr Pavera - personal reasons, Mr Pilný - working reasons, Mr Pražák - working reasons, and Mr Vyzula - family reasons. I have an apology here from the members of the government from the Minister of Health, but that is what I see in full force here, so I assume that the apology does not apply. [[14.10 hours]] We would therefore now proceed to the establishment of the agenda for the 12th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. I would like to remind you that pursuant to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is therefore not possible to propose an amendment or addition to the programme and the approved programme cannot be extended either. However, before we vote, I have an announcement here with priority rights, namely the Prime Minister, to whom I will give the floor. Please, Prime Minister. After that, Mr Kalousek will appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, since we cannot change the agenda for this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we can only vote in favour of this proposal or against it, if necessary abstain, let me give you some good reasons to vote in favour of this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am very pleased that at this moment I can present the positive proposals put forward by the Government of the Czech Republic at this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which was convened at the request of coalition MPs. The proposals that we propose, if approved, will clearly help families with children, will clearly help the elderly. They will stabilise the revenue of the state budget and create conditions for us to draw funds from the European Union. All these measures, as the government puts them forward, support our economy, promote economic growth, and thus create new jobs. What I would like to highlight at the beginning of the debate that awaits us and which will undoubtedly be interesting in this Chamber of Deputies. Unlike the various previous packages and groups of laws and sets of measures that have been put forward by various governments in recent years, we are presenting our proposal on time. These are changes that should start to apply from 1 January next year, these are changes related to the preparation of the State Budget Act, but we do not submit them in September or November, as it used to be in previous years. I am pleased that we have enough time at the moment to allow Parliament to discuss these proposals and to approve them. The government certainly does not want such important laws as the Value Added Tax Act or the Income Tax Act to be amended in December, just before the new calendar year begins. We do not wish to introduce citizens into uncertainty and we do not wish to introduce business entities into uncertainty. Therefore, the Government is submitting these proposals after five months of operation. We have clearly set our priorities, the proposals have been prepared on time by individual ministries, and at this point Parliament has sufficient room to discuss them. Although some of the proposals that we are putting forward show that we are averting serious damage that would otherwise threaten the Czech Republic, we have not succumbed to the temptation of past governments to facilitate our journey, we have not succumbed to the temptation to shorten our time limits for discussing these bills, for example, by pretending that we need to declare a state of legislative emergency, as tried by some of our right-wing predecessors. The proposals are ready in time and we have enough room to discuss them. At the same time, I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that there is a high likelihood that these proposals will be approved by the Senate, and I have also noted no serious reservations from the President of the Republic. There is therefore a great chance that when the Chamber of Deputies gives its consent to these proposals, the Senate, or the President of the Republic, will also give their consent to them, and the time of their discussions will be reduced significantly in order to be approved sufficiently in advance before the end of this year. That's remark number one. We put forward proposals in time, at the first moment when the new government could have done so after its accession. Let me also introduce you to the content of these proposals. It is constantly and very often mentioned in the media especially about the Civil Service Act. Perhaps citizens could be mistaken to believe that the government does not actually have and does not see any more important problems than the regulation of the conditions of civil servants. This is an important point in the agenda of this meeting, but it is certainly not the only objective that the Czech Government is pursuing. The proposal we are proposing is changing a number of things, and I am convinced that it is changing them towards the better. The first point I would like to stop at concerns the provision of healthcare. The proposal, which is at the first reading of this meeting, will cancel the fees for the recipe and fees in the ambulances from 1 January next year, from 1 January 2015. I would like to remind you that this promise has been made in recent years by a number of political parties. A number of political parties have promised that the fees imposed by the Government of Topolánkův in 2008 would be partially or completely abolished. We are fulfilling this commitment, which is contained in the Government's programming declaration. I would also like to remind you that, on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, hospital fees have not been paid since 1 January this year, and the government has agreed not to reintroduce them. We put forward a proposal to abolish the fees, as we put it, very responsibly, because we first secured revenue for the health care system. As you know, this Chamber of Deputies has already approved in good time the law which increased the payments for state insured persons, so that we can compensate for the failure in the health care system, which will be caused by reducing the contribution of patients in the form of payment of fees. This means that we are acting responsibly - first we have secured funds for the health care system, and only when these funds are secured, including the draft State Budget Act for next year, we are abolishing the fees from 1 January next year. The second important point concerning this meeting is the reduction in value added tax. Ladies and gentlemen, you are hearing very well - a reduction in value added tax. That's a thing that's been new to this House for years. The previous governments have always approached almost every draft State Budget Act only with proposals for increasing value added tax. In recent years, when the government didn't run out of money, it was unable to prepare the budget, so it took money from its citizens and in a way that no one can defend itself in our country, by making past governments more expensive than anything that is taxed on value added tax, whether it was food, whether it was medicine, or it was housing, transport, water and sewerage, or, for example, tickets to the theatre. The value added tax has grown steadily and it has occurred, for example, that drug taxation has increased from 5 to 15 percent in recent years. Our government proposes that for three sensitive items, which are drugs, books and irreplaceable child food, we reduce the value added tax rate from 15 to 10 per cent, starting on 1 January next year. The third proposal and the third amendment that we are making concern families with more children. We propose that a new birth rate be provided for the second child in the Czech Republic, and at the same time - which I consider even more important - we propose that the family group that are entitled to the birth rate should be extended. In recent years, a circle of people and families with children who were entitled to some form of aid from the state has been constantly narrowed down, and especially working families with children have paid for this, and the middle classes in particular have paid for it. [[14.20 hours]] The aim of the Government's proposal is to support, to a greater extent, the working families with children, by expanding their families who are entitled to child benefits. The fact that we are introducing a child to another child of CZK 10,000 is undoubtedly factual evidence that the government wants to finally make a pro-family policy. A policy that will be focused on supporting families who have decided to have children. Not that we will punish these families, not that we will raise taxes for these families, but we want to look for ways to help and support them. Another important change, which is part of this package, is the question that has plagued a number of working pensioners in recent years. The nonNečasův government took their tax credit from one day to the next. With this proposal, we are returning the tax reduction for working pensioners from January 1st next year, as promised in the government programme. As far as tax arrangements are concerned, I would like to mention one more which is also very important. We gradually increase the discount on children's tax. Again, the support that goes to working families with children. In order not to name all the changes, I want to focus on the ones I think are the most important. The proposal that we are proposing also limits the abuse of the social benefit that is paid as a supplement to housing. The proposal responds to the unsatisfactory situation created in our country after the so-called Social Reform of Drabka. At the time when the social benefits were transferred from municipalities to labour offices, the abuse of social benefits intended to promote housing was widespread. The authorities couldn't face it because they were staffed undersized, and the previous governments didn't care. The result of the fact that the previous governments did not care and that no one has made legislative changes is the state we have today. In the Czech Republic we have several thousand so-called social hostels that benefit and in many cases benefit purely business from the system of benefits as set up. Tens of thousands of crowns are collected for accommodation that has no parameters at all, which have no dignity at all, when benefits from several persons are merged. That's what we're trying to stop. We want to prevent this social looting and this fraud by presenting an appropriate amendment to the law. What I think is also important, and it is a positive report, is the return of green diesel as support for our farmers. I would like to remind you that this increases the competitiveness of our farmers, because in the surrounding countries they have a chance to achieve similar support. In the Czech Republic, it was gradually reduced until it was finally abolished by the last government, and we are trying to correct the situation with regard to farmers. A large part of the debate, honourable Members, which is before us, will undoubtedly touch the issue of the Civil Service Act. No doubt it's a serious subject. It will cover about 65,000 state employees who, according to the latest calculations, will fall under the new Civil Service Act. It will affect their position in employment, their qualifications, their security and their remuneration. This is undoubtedly an important subject for these people, but it is also an important subject for all of us. The Civil Service Act is a big debt. We promised more than ten years ago as the Czech Republic when we joined the European Union, so we promised that we would have a Civil Service Act. The law is still not fully effective. Ten years after joining the European Union! It is evident that all previous governments have signed up for their part in not having this law. Its further delay is no longer possible. It is not possible to repeat what has been repeated here in recent years: lack of will, inability to prepare the proposal well, inability to secure funds. Those were all the reasons why the law wasn't passed. Our government has a goal, and it is one of the key objectives that we have set in the programme for the Civil Service Act in our country to finally apply. Since January 1st next year. The situation is not that we can afford to postpone the proposal further. And I'll tell you why. We are now in the preparation phase for drawing funds from the European Union. It is money that has been earmarked for the Czech Republic for the years 2014 to 2020. We have 2014 in the middle and it is clear that this year from the new financial perspective, we will not be able to draw any funds out of the new budget. Just because the draw is not ready in the Czech Republic. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the government is taking steps very quickly and intensively to prepare and start using money from new European funds in the Czech Republic from the beginning of next year. But in order for this to happen, we need to have an effective and valid Civil Service Act. Since January 1st next year. If that doesn't happen, it'll be an obstacle that can't be overcome. I know there's gonna be an effort to relativize this commitment. I know there's gonna be an effort to say, look - and where's it written in black and white that the law has to apply? I just want to remind you of our past experience, and believe me, I wouldn't want to repeat it. There was the government of Petr Nečas, who also promised the European Commission that it would enforce an effective Civil Service Act. She's never done it. The government was trying to find other solutions to postpone the solution. As a result, the Czech Republic was suspended from drawing from the vast majority of European funds during Nečasův' government. We got a stopwatch and for several months the draw was completely stopped. We pay a very cruel price for this. We paid it last year by losing more than ten billion of European funds. We'll pay for it this year. And unfortunately, the government can't do much about it, because the delays that have happened can't be caught up in the short term. That means we already have one very sad and tragic experience here when the last Nečasův government ignored the need to adopt the Civil Service Act. This mistake can no longer be repeated by the Czech Republic because it would have serious economic consequences for us. It's more than 500 billion crowns. It is the money that can be used for investment, to modernise the economy, to support municipalities, cities and regions. They can be used to improve public services, to create new jobs. The government's aim is for us to have a Civil Service Act in January next year, and the government's aim is for us to start announcing first calls for European funds at the beginning of next year. Those are the main reasons that lead us to overstep the Civil Service Act. I don't want to talk about those other goals and motives, such as depoliticizing the government, strengthening the expertise of the state administration. That goes without saying. After all, all the other governments that were before us were talking about it, but none of them made it to the end. We cannot put it off and we want to bring it to the end so that the law will start to apply from January 1st next year. honourable Members, I would like to ask you for the Government of the Czech Republic to support the programme of this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The bills we propose will help citizens. The bills we propose will stabilise the state budget. The proposals we are proposing will support the Czech economy in the coming years. It is undoubtedly good and right to vote for these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u5	Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr Kalousek is the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. The President of the ODS, Mr Fiala, will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, honourable Members. An extraordinary meeting has been convened on the basis of a proper request from the relevant number of Members, and there can certainly be no objection to the process of calling this meeting and of the fact that we are now meeting extremely. [[14.30 hours]] The Prime Minister has set out on a rather epic scale the reasons for the individual points of this extraordinary meeting and has justified the government's position to believe that it is necessary for them to be discussed at this extraordinary meeting. If you don't mind, I'm not gonna copy his performance because we're gonna comment on the individual points. The Prime Minister believes that the third VAT rate, the abolition of health fees, are things that will help the Czech Republic to help Czech citizens. The Minister of Finance believes that the abolition of health fees and the introduction of a third VAT rate are stupidity and error that the government miscounted. So whether the government is now presenting laws that are useful to citizens, or stupidity and error, we will rather leave to the regular internal coalition debate that we have been able to listen to in recent weeks, and what our opinion is, we will say at individual points. What I would like to stop at is the real reason for calling an emergency meeting, the negotiation of the Service Act. It's our second time this year. For the second time we have a service law at an emergency meeting, with the same reasoning as it is extremely important to discuss it here and now. Because if we don't discuss this here and now, we're facing massive sanctions, consequences. The hospital won't heal, the birds won't sing and the roses will fade. This is what we heard here in January when we were discussing the first reading of the Service Act, which we protested quite seriously and which government coalition with this justification passed an extraordinary meeting in January of this year. In order to follow four months, more than 120 days of discussion, which we didn't know too much about except that we knew you were fighting, but we didn't really know much about what you were arguing about. And after those four months, about 36 days ago, we put on the table the text of the second reading of this law, which has been marked since the first reading by the fact that it did not have a name in common with it. Ladies and gentlemen, after just four months, we got a whole new text on the table, like we weren't even here in January! I wouldn't have been able to explain to anyone sane why we were here in January. In January, we approved something here that was then postponed, and another four months, a whole new text, including the new law, was stumbled up in a way. What were we discussing back then in January at that first reading? It wasn't the Service Act. Perhaps an alibi of the Czech government to laugh at Czech laws and to assemble on the basis of a violation of the Illustration Act. But I'm sure it wasn't a service bill. Because what we put on the table 35 days ago had nothing to do with the January text, but nothing at all! Not even a name, ladies and gentlemen! Which is the funny thing. And the 30 days have passed when the committees have acted, and in the past days, or, rather, hours, we have been given a comprehensive amendment to this - to stick to traditional terms. Here I must appreciate that the title remains. The name hasn't changed, that's certainly a good move. But other than that, it's the third new text. The third new text of the bill, which you claim is essential for it to be discussed. We think so, too. Which you claim is essential for it to be effective from 1. 1. 2015, which I no longer think is a dogma, because much more than that efficiency, the European Union wants us to have a good and effective law. Just the process itself, so far I haven't talked about the content, only the process itself of discussing each literate clearly states that it simply can't be a quality law. In January, we had something here that then ceased to exist. Then we received a comprehensive amendment, which had neither a name in common with the January text, and now we have a comprehensive amendment to the comprehensive amendment, in which I assume that most of us are not yet able to navigate because we only have a few hours on the table, and it is the third new text. And you want to declare it second reading! You have the ambition to discuss the second reading this week. And you have the ambition to approve the third reading next week. At a time when we're talking about nothing but a law that determines in a fundamental way the nature of the state's governance? This is not a Civil Service Act - only, it is a law on the nature of state governance. The law on whether we will have effective and professional government or whether we will concrete 25 lovers who believe that the efficiency of business lies in tax relief and state subsidies. And there is success and prosperity of the Czech economy, and there is success and prosperity of business. And we have to put these people in there and concrete them for 14 days to secure our subsidies. That's the most dangerous thing I've ever seen in 20 years of politics. Nevertheless, I insist that the Civil Service Act is needed and that we want it. And we'd like to reach it with a political consensus. Political consensus cannot be achieved in this way, and certainly not in an emergency meeting. I would therefore like to justify, by this speech, why we will not vote in favour of the extraordinary meeting programme, why I believe that we have quite enough time until the deadline for a proper meeting so that we can try to agree on what the draft should look like. And to assure you that if you want to go through with this emergency meeting, we won't let you! We have skis and training for that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u7	The President of the ODS, Mr Fiala, shall have the floor. After that, Minister Dienstbier is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here some of the representatives of the government coalition were concerned that the opposition, especially the Civil Democratic Party and the TOP 09, would be doing some obstructions. So far, I've come to the impression that whoever started the obstructions is Prime Minister Sobotka. Because otherwise, I didn't understand his opening act at all. Obviously, the Prime Minister wants to praise himself, he's been doing it a lot lately. He commended how he dealt with the opposition correctly, how they put all things to discussion in time, and how what the government coalition has prepared here will serve for the benefit of the citizens of this country, and how these proposals will actually help everyone. I would have taken the liberty of resisting on this general level. These proposals will not only help everyone, they will not help almost anyone, but mainly introduce new subsidies for the chosen ones, they will cement the state administration for the political opponents of the current coalition, cause further chaos and other inconspicuousness of the environment in which the citizens of the Czech Republic are moving. I agree with Prime Minister Sobotka's only thesis. He repeats the thesis often. In order not to have to listen to it all the time, I will tell you that I agree with it, and that is the claim that Petr Nečas' government ruled here between 2010 and 2013. That, Prime Minister, is true. We all know that, and you don't have to keep telling us that. Everything else you've said, but the truth isn't, or it's a very shifted vision of the world from your side. [[14.40 hours]] Let me give you an example. The subsidies for certain operational programmes by the European Union were not stopped at the time of Petr Nečas' government due to the absence of the Service Act, this is complete nonsense, but were stopped due to drawing errors or insufficient control mechanisms. The existence of the State Administration Act was not linked in any way. Likewise, the future drawdown of the European Structural Funds does not depend on whether we have a service law faster or slower, but depends on the fulfilment of the many conditions that we have received from the European Commission and which we must fulfil in order to sign a partnership agreement. And there is no state service law between these terms and ex ante consistency, so we have enough time to agree on it. We, as the opposition, offer the negotiations of a government coalition, and I think it would be better for everyone to adopt this law consensually and truly serve the citizens of this country. When I say that almost no matter what the government coalition is proposing here will help citizens, I should add that there are some things that are really useful and that we agree with. As an example, I would mention a tax discount for working pensioners. Although it is a little incomprehensible why you disagreed with our proposal, on the other hand, I understand when you want to limit their total income to CZK 850 000 per year, that you could not agree with it. Or a tax discount on another child and another child, that's one thing we're ready to support and consider reasonable. But most of the proposals you come up with, from green oil to flat-rate restrictions for businessmen to the third VAT rate and, of course, the whole so much discussed service law, these are things that do nothing good and that we cannot agree with. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that after these opening words, you have understood that even the ODS MP cannot support the agenda for this extraordinary meeting and that you have understood enough the reasons why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u9	Minister Dienstbier has the floor, followed by the Prime Minister. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u10	Mr President, Members, I must respond to the previous two speeches and disprove some -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u11	I'm sorry. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u12	- and disprove some of the myths that were said in these speeches. I think some of these notes were even completely cynical. First of all, it is said that the European Union is essentially not asking us to do anything. According to President Fiala, it is not even an ex ante consistency for the drawing of European funds and, in principle, nothing is happening. We've got plenty of time. Even today, President Kalousek demanded in the media that he want to see black and white, that someone wants us to see the Civil Service Act on January 1st next year, or that funds or funds would be threatened in any way. drawing up European funds. This requirement to see black and white that it is so, I can meet. We have yesterday's opinion from the European Commission, which calls for the commitment of the Czech Republic in relation to the civil service to be included in the Partnership Agreement. The commitment refers, on the one hand, to specific recommendations for the Czech Republic in relation to public administration and public service and, at the same time, to ex ante compliance under thematic objective number 11 for drawing European funds. The opinion also states that the Czech Republic undertakes to accelerate the effective implementation of the Civil Service Act, which will take effect on 1 January 2015, while all implementing regulations will be approved and effective by the end of 2014. This will be formally confirmed at the time of the approval of the operational programmes of the European Structural and Investment Funds. In order to translate this into Czech, if, at the time of the approval of operational programmes, which can be expected sometime in October, the Civil Service Act, within the meaning of the European Commission's recommendations formally binding and ex ante compliance, does not approve a single operational programme for drawing up European Structural and Investment Funds, will be approved by the European Commission. In other words, the Czech Republic will not draw a single crown or euro from these funds. That's so we know what we're talking about, and that there's no more cynical excuses to say that someone wants to see something black in white and that otherwise we have plenty of time. President Kalousek has complained here that we already have a third comprehensive amendment or God knows how many. We have one single comprehensive amendment. This was supplemented by some partial amendments in the constitutional committee, which did not fundamentally change the text as a whole, and if President Kalousek says that they do not orient themselves in it, that they do not know what is there, I would like to say that we have held a number of consultations with the opposition Members, I would stress the many-hour consultations, the last two were held on 17 June and 24 June before the constitutional committee was held. All the proposals that were voted on by the Constitutional Committee were discussed in advance with the opposition, at the same time all its amendments, which had been tabled until then, and even some of them, although partially, were accepted, were discussed with the opposition, even with the support of government legislation, which amended these proposals in order to be formally in order and not to disturb the legislative quality of the law as a whole. So if the opposition wants to say that it didn't have information that there was an unknown document being submitted here that it didn't have time to prepare for, it was cynicism again, because I would remind the last term of election, when the representatives of the ODS and the TOP 09 at the time when they were ruling, at the last moment before the vote, they were reading a completely new text of the laws that were being put to the vote, and they themselves didn't know what they were voting on at the time. I think that our position on the opposition, the time that we have put at its disposal, and the cooperation in the discussion and formulation of amendments are absolutely incomparable to what we have experienced here in the past. And when different times were mentioned here, how long the opposition was supposed to prepare for the present service law, the comprehensive amendment, we made it available at the end of May, about 45 days before the beginning of this meeting. I'm just here to talk nonsense, but it's true information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u13	The Prime Minister, President Kalousek after him, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u14	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I think that the government should listen to what the opposition says. This is part of parliamentary culture, and it is part of the functioning of parliamentary democracy. So I listened to what President Kalousek said, and I listened to what President Fiala said. And I also think that the government should think about those words of the opposition, because very often the opposition can draw attention to real problems that maybe the Prime Minister or the Minister won't notice. So the role of the opposition is absolutely necessary in parliamentary democracy. But I do not think that the opposition that has spoken until now, that means ODS and TOP 09, should advise the government how to do this with drawing funds from the European Union. Because if you could do that, if it worked for you, then how is it possible that the Czech Republic is the worst of all? How is it that we are the last of all the Member States of the European Union when it worked so perfectly for you and your advice led to what ultimately led to? If all this was so perfect after the three years of ODS government that President Fiala here spoke of, how is it possible that we lost 10 billion crowns last year? [[14.50 hours]] The most money from all Member States of the European Union fell to our Czech Republic after three years of government ODS and TOP 09. How is it possible that the good advice you are giving us here today, undoubtedly in the interest of the state, good advice from the ODS and the TOP 09, how is it that your recipes have not worked in recent years? That we've worked our way into the absolute worst position we can have? This government came in February, and the first message we got is that this year we're in danger of losing another 20 billion. CZK from European funds. Last year, 10, 20 more this year. That's not a good result. And it's not a good result because you guys were closing your eyes to reality. You pretended that reality didn't exist, you did it your way, and you led it to where you led it. The Czech government refuses to close its eyes to reality. It is obvious that we need to explain with the European Commission the conditions for drawing funds from the European Union. And if we are already a small part away from the settlement of the Partnership Agreement, if the government has already approved individual operational programmes, then we will not move further from the point of view of drawing preparation without making it clear that the Civil Service Act will be in place. This is the barrier that stands in the way, and the barrier, like the other obstacles, must be removed by the government. If we don't do this, in a year's time, if we stand against each other like this in the Chamber of Deputies, you will rightly criticize the government for not having spent a penny of European funds simply because if the Civil Service Act doesn't apply, the government will fail. And I've been thinking... I've been wondering why you guys haven't done anything in the area of the Civil Service Act for seven years. And I didn't hear any answers here. I'd like to ask President Fiala to tell the ODS why you haven't done anything for seven years. And President Kalousek has to join us in explaining why the TOP 09 in the Civil Service Act for the time you ruled, so you haven't moved a finger. We came to the government and found nothing. No numbers, no calculations, no analysis, no prepared novels that we could use. There's nothing left of your government. One cannot blame this new government for coming forward with this proposal after five months. We don't have time. You wasted that time. You guys spent it for free. Seven years have been waiting, and now we need to pass the law quickly. You have butter on your head. Both ODS and TOP 09. You have a ton of butter on your head in connection with the Civil Service Act. I would ask you to take responsibility for the situation in which the Czech Republic is located. Please take responsibility and help us solve this problem for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u15	President Kalousek has the floor. After that, the chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Of course, Prime Minister. I think that every politician who has been here for some time must acknowledge his level of responsibility for this factual situation exactly the same as social democracy, which went through a senseless and dysfunctional law in 2002, which she herself was convinced was meaningless and dysfunctional, and that is why every year she proposed delaying its effectiveness. Coincidentally, it was the text that you were absolutely serious, with a deadly, serious face here in January, they voted for an emergency meeting. Even though you knew it was nonsense you'd never agree with, you let him out here for a so-called second reading to replace him with another text. Let's all take responsibility, but you, too, please. This was a cynical game. A cynical game in the interest of mocking the rendering law. It wasn't an effort to enforce the Service Act. First of all. Secondly, I originally volunteered because I do not want to extend the debate too much, we have said our position clearly, but in order to avoid misunderstandings, I have tried to clarify some of the remarks made by Minister Dienstbier. He said that what we're going through right now is disproportionate to what you said here, we had to go through in the last term. If I remember correctly, Minister, you didn't have to experience anything because you weren't here. But what is surprising information to me, I do not know how for you, is that most of your coworkers remember this period with nostalgia and love. Then you also said I was complaining. I wasn't complaining, please. I just sighed bitterly over the incompetence that the government coalition is dealing with, and I kind of laughed at the incompetence. That's a little different from complaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u17	Mr Stanjura has the floor, and he is the last to be logged in so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At first I wanted to respond to the speech of the Minister without portfolio, who clearly has nothing to do, so he is the shadow minister for local development, and he tells us how the Czech Republic negotiates with Brussels. I'd expect it from the secretary, not the minister... well, he really has nothing to do, so he's having fun like that in his spare time. About what the Prime Minister said about sharing the responsibility. I think that's the right line. But our principle is, and it applies and applies in 2002, when we didn't vote for the service law, and it applies today: no law is better than a bad law. It was the government of the ČSSD that approved it. It was a government - without the votes of the ODS members at the time. During the next, until 2007, we certainly did not rule, and your governments, you were even a member there, designed and voted to postpone efficiency. So if you're talking so dramaticly about the 12 years that the law isn't effective, then also apply to those flights when you were comfortable with it because you were aware that the law was wrong, and you didn't have the courage to make it effective. We have the junk, we know exactly who voted in 2002, who voted in 2004, and so on. They're public documents, so we don't have to convince ourselves. The Prime Minister says: we have failed to drain European money; you have your share. I'm sure it's true. But you're forgetting the beginning. Have we been able to draw since January 1, 2007, when you left the government? And we remind ourselves that we still call ourselves: programming period 2007 to 2013. How much was spent in 2007? How much have socialist governments prepared to do this before? Who invented that stupid system of 24 operating programs? You invented it. You're the one who pushed him. You did not negotiate good conditions for the Czech Republic. And I agree with you, we haven't been able to catch up and remove everything. That's right. Then, of course, it is true that even under our governments, in some operational programmes, both at central level, but also at regional level, it did not really work. There were criminals, some we caught, some we haven't caught yet. And that's everyone's responsibility. Not that simple. But we're... President Fiala did not talk about European funds and we did not want to discuss who set up the funds in 2006, 2005, 2004 who negotiated it. My colleague Kalousek and I announced yesterday that we were afraid of obstruction by the government coalition. And you laughed. But we were completely right to be afraid. President Sobotka has provoked an hour's debate here, then the Minister has joined, and we have been here for an hour, we could have had two second readings in a row. We just don't have that. We're going to make our specific suggestions here in such a nice political way. The Prime Minister says: we want to deal with the opposition. Even the minister here says: we have dealt with the opposition. So I say that our political party chairman didn't get an offer for a meeting, and I, as a member of the MP's club, didn't get an offer for a meeting. And if you're saying that this is a political negotiation by allowing our members to go to proper committee meetings, you're right. That's where our member of the ÚPV was, who took part in the meeting. The fact that we think the concept is wrong, that's just the truth. But I look forward to a detailed debate in point 6. And I'm particularly looking forward to those processors, because without that, it's brave. The Prime Minister, the President of the Chamber of Deputies and other senior officials of the ČSSD will write the law, and then someone will completely overwrite it. The courage must be appreciated that they were not afraid to rewrite the law to their prime minister and their chairman in a completely different way. [[15.00 hours]] But your idea that the negotiations will be so that at second reading you'll let us speak, condescendingly, calmly, let him speak for five, ten, fifteen hours, we'll somehow endure it, we'll be ready for the obstructions, then the debate will end and we'll vote and we'll go home... Well, it won't be. Firstly, it will not be, and secondly, it is not a negotiation. Again, I say that we are ready to negotiate if you want to act, we can actually act quite quickly and we are able to achieve the goal quite quickly. And it's nice of you to get something black and white from Brussels yesterday. And I don't know why they say it's cynical when someone says, "I'd like to ask." That's a cynical question too. But we do know from Minister Dienstbier that yesterday we have black and white from the European Commission. I am therefore interested in who is signed there, whether it will be there in a week or two, because we know that the European Commission is coming to order again, we can ask the Prime Minister when he promised the elected President of the European Commission today his support for the Czech Republic, why he did not negotiate something. Ask your colleagues in the European Parliament, today the President of the European Commission has been running around all the factions, promising everything that we have negotiated for the Czech Republic for Mr Juncker's support. Maybe it would be good, I don't know if we even tried it, I wonder if we even tried it, maybe we couldn't negotiate it, maybe we couldn't make N+2 N+3, which would certainly help the Czech Republic in drawing, and I note problematic drawing. It is not true that we have not prepared a draft service law. They did. We approved it in the government. The House's term of office ended when the government fell, that's all true. But it's not true that we didn't do anything about it and that we didn't care. The fact that political life ran somewhere else, and the terms were different, that just happens, doesn't really affect a person. Yet we have made it clear that we are prepared to support the law if you discuss it with us. If you don't, and you really want to concrete him for 14 years, then please, you can try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u19	Vice-President Filip reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would ask, through Mr President, that my colleague Stanjura not lie in front of this House. There are a lot of people who visited the European Court of Auditors, when the European Court of Auditors made it clear that the drawing up was caused by your bad policy, that you were unable to manage a single normal project, and that at least there had to be a negotiation of the SAO law, which you blocked again. You're the reason it didn't draw. In the last seven years of ODS government, TOP 09 has exhausted only 32.8 percent of possible money. You did this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-001-999.u21	I do not have any further request for a priority speech, so we will proceed to the vote on the proposal for a programme. As I said before, the House pursuant to § 54 para. 7 of the Act on Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the agenda referred to in the application, therefore it is not possible to propose amendments or additions, it is also not possible to extend and none of this has been mentioned. Therefore, I will ring the bell once again and we will vote on the proposal for a 12th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as it would have put forward in writing. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the proposal for a programme, as it was submitted, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 2. Registered 179, for 110, against 31, this proposal has been adopted and I note that the draft agenda of the 12th meeting has been approved. We will therefore proceed directly to the first item on the agenda of the meeting, which is:
