ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-009-01-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. On behalf of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, she convened this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, at the request of 61 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on 30 April 2014. I beg you all to sign up with your I.D. cards. I would like to inform you that the replacement cards and their numbers are valid as they were reported at the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, with the exception of Mr Fiala, who has his original card. I'll ask if there are any new or re-found voting cards. That's not true, so the list is valid. We should now set the verifiers for this meeting. I propose that the verifiers of this meeting be Members David Kádner and Jiří Petrů. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. Initiating vote. Please, who is in favour of these two colleagues being verifiers, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 1, registered 89, for 82, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that we have designated the verifiers of the 9th meeting as members of the Kádner and members of the Petr. I confirm that the apologies for today's meeting are consistent with the apologies that were made at the 8th meeting. We will now proceed to the programme of the 9th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. I merely recall that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can this approved programme be extended. I don't register any applications with priority rights. We will proceed to the vote and vote on the entire proposal for the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees with this program, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 2, there are 112 colleagues and colleagues registered, for 107, against no one. The agenda has been approved. At this stage, I'm not going to open a single point. I have two information for you, and I would like to ask you to listen carefully to the chairmen of the MPs in particular. At the end of this extraordinary meeting, when the system will be set up and the system will be changed at the eighth meeting, please all Members of Parliament's Clubs, plus the House's leadership, to meet and discuss the course of the 8th meeting. That's the first piece of information. So, after an emergency meeting, immediately afterwards, either up here or in the galleys, a meeting of club presidents. I was also asked to warn you that there is an exhibition in the Chamber of Deputies under the name Zahradnické and with them cooperating fields in the Czech Republic from the Association of Garden Communities. Floral decoration is part of the exhibition, I mean the decoration in the foyer. The exhibition itself is located in the usual premises, which means in the atrium. So much information. Now I'm opening point number
