ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws /German press 251/ - Second reading Under the authority of the Government, the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš will state the draft bill. Vice-President, I ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention this, and this reminds us of what is called. the rate amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. The subject of this rate amendment is in accordance with the coalition contract implementation so called. the second reduced rate of value added tax on medicines, books and irreplaceable child nutrition of 10 per cent. In the context of the introduction of this second reduced rate of tax, those provisions of the following laws will be abolished, which should have unified the VAT rates of 17,5 per cent. As a result, value added tax rates will not be harmonised from 1 January 2016. The effectiveness of the rate amendment to the Value Added Tax Act is proposed from 1 January 2015. The draft law was discussed at first reading on 17 July 2014 at the 12th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets. At the same time, the deadline for its committee hearing was reduced by ten days for this proposal. The material was discussed at the 12th meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 3 September 2014, and the Committee on Budgets in its resolution recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill be approved without comment. I would therefore like to ask you to discuss the rate amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets, and the committee resolution was delivered as a House press 251/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, the Minister here has basically already said that the Committee on Budgets has discussed this amendment of the law, however, in order to comply with the rapporteur's responsibilities, I will, after all, introduce you once again to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. After discussion, the Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the Government's bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws, House Press 251, approved this without comment. It empowers the rapporteur to introduce this to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have also done with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u5	Thank you, Mr Member, and I am opening a general debate to which I am currently registering three applications with priority rights. The first is Mr Kalousek, then Mr Okamura and Mr Fiala and also Mr Fiala from ODS. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of public debate on public budgets and tax policy, few of the government's proposals and its political parties are so openly convicted of hypocrisy as this proposal for an amendment to value added tax and a proposal to introduce a second reduced rate. In 2012, as part of the necessary consolidation of public budgets, the Nečasův government agreed, in addition to the dramatic savings on the expenditure side, to the revenue side, where the most significant strengthening on the income side, i.e. by raising taxes, was the increase of VAT by 1 per cent at the reduced rate and the basic rate, but without abandoning the final conclusion contained in the current legal order, it had not yet become effective, to reach the desired base of one rate. This step - I admit it was a controversial step, I do not know a government that would like to raise taxes - was one of the main arguments of the opposition, the opposition at the time, in the election campaign. Government parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies - which was, above all, a social democracy, dramatically criticised this step and promised citizens how to correct it immediately after it had the strength to do so. Even greater verbal ammunition was used by the then non-European ANO 2011 movement, which called this step extremely unhappy, almost equal to crime, and also promised citizens how to correct this step immediately. Also KDU-ČSL. All parties who did not bear government responsibility at the time protested against this move, called it a fundamental mistake, and promised that this mistake would be corrected after being entrusted with the trust of citizens. I thought it logical that immediately after your parties and movements received a mandate from the electorate, one of the first steps would be that step that you called a mistake to remove the error from the practical life of everyday consumption. That immediately, if nothing else, you would propose a reduction of both two rates by one point, because it was a step that you were subject to and still subject to maximum criticism in your own way. But what did not happen? You didn't do anything like that, you're leaving the rates at the critical rate, and you're opening the door even more to tax evasion, because each extra rate is room for further tax evasion and greater administrative complexity, essentially in three cosmetic items. Coalition bazaar, we're three sides, so we each say one item. The people's people believe that Europe's natality will save reduced VAT on child nutrition, so child food. [[16.00 hours]] We criticized drugs, so drugs, even though we realize that this item is not essential within the context of public budgets, because we are going to move the dominant amount from one pocket to another, and what does not get the state budget, this will relieve health insurance companies and at the end there are small ones. This means, from the point of view of the overall impact on consumers, it is again a marginal amount, albeit essential to someone, but I do not underestimate that, but it is a marginal amount in terms of the impact on public budgets. And, of course, books are not a dramatic matter either. Of course, the support of all these things can be dealt with on the expenditure side. Like green diesel, we could solve books with greater support for public libraries, and in the case of medicines, we have a whole range of instruments on the expense side. But since we talked about it, we criticized the need to do something about the VAT, so we did this cosmetics, but that's essential, those tens of billions, we left them in effect so that the consumer would continue to pay it, because we, those government parties, are criticizing it as a mistake, but when we deposit the money, we don't see it as such. So what was it, colleagues? If it really was a mistake, then make it right, because you have all the instruments, including the parliamentary majority, and return it back to the level from which we were then, at the time of the debt crisis, determined to increase it, and you promised to correct that mistake. Or maybe it wasn't a mistake, it's perfect for you. You can use it because you want to spend the money. That's the other problem that's bothering us. We've taken that step to reduce the deficit, and we've reduced it every year. I'm talking about a structural deficit. You want to spend that money, even though you're increasing the structural deficit. There is no greater evidence of hypocrisy in your pre-election rhetoric and your daily practice in budgetary policy today. You promised to correct errors, leave taxes in the amount and, in comparison with how individual laws should enter into force, whether it is income tax, or VAT tax, you are effectively increasing those taxes, because to the given dates when those laws should enter into force, citizens will pay higher taxes than they expect today, and you are not reducing the structural deficits that are far beyond the agreed standards and standards. You're raising expenses for this money. It's not without interest. When we look at the impact of the difference between the 17.5 percent rate that the effective rule of law still assumes today, and what you are proposing now, the difference in the impact on the government sector is roughly CZK 16 billion. In fact, it is even more because VAT is a shared tax, so the 16 billion are two thirds, the rest is shared by municipalities and regions, but it is 16 billion crowns. The number is extremely similar to the number with which the happy ministers took the resters from kramářův's villa or Letenské, I do not know where the minister discussed the budget with them. If the structural deficit had fallen by these 16 billion crowns, I would probably have kept quiet, even though there would have been legitimate discussion, which is better, but I would probably have kept quiet. But these 16 billion crowns were taken away by ministers not on responsible investments - that is, I am ahead of the debate on the state budget that awaits us - but on gifts, on operating expenses, on social benefits, on wages, on everything that we perceive as consumption that will never bring any effect. Same thing, and I'm not gonna go into the Income Tax Act anymore, so I'm gonna outrun it a little bit, 'cause it's the same thing. The same is the amendment to the Income Tax Act. If the laws in force had come into force, people would have paid 14 billion less on income tax. That's 2 billion less than what the ministers took away from Minister Babiš in their budget hearing. By 14 billion, the tax burden on the job could fall. You work hard to invent cursarbeites, work hard to invent selected support for the chosen at the expense of the others, but you will not make the planned reduction and discount of the job by 14 billion. And if you could at least reduce the structural deficit by that money, you could understand that. But this money was taken away by happy ministers from Letensky from the good finance minister, who has the money because the taxes are the way he criticized them. It's kind of a ridiculous comedy. Unfortunately, it's a practice. It is the practice of a completely irresponsible budget policy of this government, which, when no longer carries out the planned tax reduction and it still exists in that legal order. The thought was simple. After all the cost of overcoming the debt crisis, everyone could be rewarded with some relief. I would take it if the new political representation said no, it is still too early for relief, we must continue to consolidate public budgets. But denying last-minute citizens, taking the relief and instead of consolidating public budgets, it is already, ladies and gentlemen, cramming. And it's just the opposite of what that government verbally says about taxes, about how it saves, and about how it increases spending, that it only increases them to investments. It's not true, and we can easily prove it on specific numbers. Let me, therefore, make an update in the general debate on the amendment to which I will sign up in detail in the debate. The proposal is quite simple and it is based on considerations which I firmly believe, and now I am not talking about the level of rates, I am talking about the number of rates in VAT. I take the simple assumption that two rates are better than three rates and one rate is better than two rates. You propose and want to burden our tax system with a third rate or, if you like, a second reduced rate of VAT, which I really consider nonsense. I think that the rates are to remain two at worst, and I therefore propose all the items that allow the Sixth Directive of the European Union to shift to the second reduced, that is to empty the first reduced, and there would only be two rates. This also means food, as well as work with a high added value of human labour, whether it be restaurant facilities, hairdressers, repairs, etc., all those items that the Sixth Directive allows. Which we consider in that second step that one rate is better than two rates, so even if the Chamber of Deputies decided to support this proposal, the TOP 09 MEP will not vote in any form in favour of the proposals for the VAT Act, because our aim is one rate. And if your present law falls under the table, one VAT rate will come into effect, which I consider optimal in terms of tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u7	Thank you. I have here one factual comment by Mr Blažek. Mr Okamura, then with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u8	Thank you for the floor. Hello. First of all, I would not agree with Mr. Pre-Speaker Miroslav Kalousek, with all due respect, and that is his saying that we have witnessed the greatest hypocrisy of this coalition or government. They're bigger. For example, let us remember the decision of the government on Monday, when only and only so that one respectable lady in Europe can decide that a woman is the same as a man, so ministers for the ANO movement commit a generally binding law, that is, by the government's order, ten million people to certain behavior. [[16.10 hours]] And it was the rhetoric: we're not like politicians, the trades are for politicians. But the politicians, so criticized, did, for example, agreements of the kind that someone would take up one function and that someone else's function. Here we can make a completely hypocritical - and yet employers will cheat - agreement that ten million people for one lady, I repeat, although respectable, must behave in a certain way, and that is that the Minister of Finance is going to the government, says he is against it, but he votes in favour of it in the government. I don't know, I probably couldn't do it by saying different things, and the hand votes yes. This is a very interesting synchronization of the human body and I still have a lot to learn. But it's probably because I'm still politically thinking, and it probably wants to think differently until the new era. Talk and vote differently. I guess that's the way to the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u9	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u10	Very briefly. It's been a strange day. I'm all apologies from the left today, from the right. I'll apologize for misconception. I'll never apologize for the truth. But I have to tell you the truth here, Mr. Ambassador. Yes, there are greater hypocritical steps to this government, I'm sorry. But let's admit it's at least one of the biggest hypocritical steps.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u11	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Josef Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u12	Mr President, fellow Members, this is where hypocrisy began to be discussed. I'd keep doing that a little bit. Recently at the 25th ODS Congress, she warmed up in her program, how better it would be. I saw that election video coming out of that village, the Rhythm, if I'm putting it down right. And I would appeal, in that context, to the hypocrisy here, to colleagues who owe $6 million to social and health insurance to stand up to it in a manly way, not hypocritically, but face-to-face. Our Chairman Babiš gives his earnings for godly purposes. You're 16 MPs, I think 14 senators, that's 30 people. If you give 50,000 out of your salary, 30 times 50,000 is one and a half million, in four months you have this debt paid off. Then here you can apply to tax laws and scream here from this place to our Members. If you don't do it here, I'll take your manners as hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u13	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Mr Okamura. After that, Mr Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone on the right and on the left, we know that tax cuts in any area will help citizens and will only benefit the economy. That is why we support and support this government bill at first reading. But before the election, we heard promises from several parties that we have products or products that deserve not to tax at all. They include medicines, books, or products for the smallest children, which means baby food or diapers. With the exception of books, these are things whose consumption of citizens, I mean seniors or infants, cannot regulate in any way, and so maybe save. And if someone does, then there could be fatal consequences. I dare say this not only with regard to elderly and disabled, many of whom do not really have the power to decide on life and death, but also families with children, single mothers. Everyone can make sure that needs for children, clothing, shoes, and child food are more expensive than the same things in adults. In this respect, I always think of one designer shoemaker who, somewhere in the interview, said that the only case where people don't care about the price is children, because those shoes just have to be bought by parents. And it's the same with drugs. The difference between the production and sales price of pharmaceutical companies is up to a thousand percent. From this point of view, it is awful when businessmen parasite on sick children or sick old people, but business is a business. But the one who shouldn't parasite in such a business in my opinion is the state. He's supposed to help, not rob. Not to take from the pocket of those who cannot help themselves. And by the way, the state here doesn't forget to parasite people who are gambling addicts. Even there he is from human tragedies, from the tragedies of whole families, well-lived. When I look into history, the Roman emperor Vespasián reaped historical shame for taxing public toilets that day. His defense, and this slogan has stabilized in the future, that money does not stink, is still an example of clever but false sophistication. The reality is that where there is no morality, there is no justice, there is no justice, and such a society ends up in decline. Of course, money can stink, and it can be criminal. We should therefore find agreement here in the Chamber of Deputies on the fundamental priorities of the state and also on setting a certain moral standard for taxing, where the state is allowed to blacken the citizen and where it is to let him breathe freely. We should agree not on the third rate of tax, but on the zero rate for products whose consumption should not be punished by the State, but at the maximum price. I know you're gonna tell me that we're in the EU, and so on. But I'll try to explain further that things are different. And it certainly wouldn't hurt to get out of our current servile policy towards the European Union, when our politicians are basically jumping as others whistle, and then, of course, our position looks like it. Let us become at least small visionaries and start bringing bold long-term solutions and proposals. One of Europe's largest statesmen, Josef II. In times of shortage caused by speculators ordered mandatory purchase of surplus grain and then sold it back to ordinary people at the purchase price. It even allowed the cashless sale of grain to peasants, with the same amount of grain after harvest returning without interest. What, then, is the wisdom of his steps? In not contenting himself with giving out charity to the hungry, but trying to ensure that the people's livelihood was as cheap as possible and would not allow speculators to get their prices high. And he certainly didn't share any VAT on the prices. Of course, he tried to help selflessly anyone who was able and willing to make a living. And let's selflessly put that in quotes. By Josef II. He didn't blackmail the poor, his lands were richer, and even his rich were richer. I have to say, that's one of the reasons I'm here in the House. If I want to have a good time in our country, then I must allow others to have a good time, because only my success depends on them. That is why we in Dawn say in the long run: Let us make life better and cheaper for people. The route does not lead through high taxes, accompanied by high social welfare costs. The only way is to ensure that people are well off, preferably without politicians and officials. The current VAT system for food, for example, results in traders refusing to give unselling food to the needy because they would have to pay 15% of the VAT, as well as those who normally sell. This really lacks common sense. I hope that Minister Babiš, who is in this sector and knows it, will find a solution. Starting with gradual VAT cancellation at least for selected commodities is a good basis. The excuses to the European Union are a needlessly played song. After all, we all know here that there are countries in the European Union that can negotiate zero on selected products, either for historical reasons or for other reasons. The government commends pro-Europeanism and better communication with foreign partners. So, nice government, that's great, and now you have the opportunity to take advantage of your diplomatic achievements in all beneficial realities. And I believe that the Němec or the Francouz don't care whether we tax heart medication or baby diapers. With regard to our main government party of ČSSD, zero VAT on books and newspapers promised public voters last year the shadow minister of culture for ČSSD Mr Krejčí and zero taxes on drugs waved to voters before the election in front of the current Prime Minister Mr Sobotka, while former Social Democratic Commissioner Vladimír Špidla publicly said last year that the introduction of a zero rate on drugs should not be a problem. So we've heard promises. And where are the actions? Or is it the social democratic populism of the rudest grain again? [[16.20 hours]] That it can - I mean, not tax it - we know. With all due respect to winemakers, winemakers, unlike other producers of alcoholic beverages, have zero tax on alcohol. And the ex- Finance Minister, Mr. Kalousek, hasn't gambled in years. In this respect, Mr Kalousek did not really talk and work. He gave the billionaires, took the poor, and in this respect almost the entire Chamber of Deputies went to his hand. It is clear that gambling billionaires or winemakers have stronger levers than infants, but when gambling and alcohol have priority in the Czech Republic, try to look at it by supporting children or extending the lives of seniors by supporting more gamblers and alcohol drinkers. Perhaps the support of infants and the sick that úsvit seeks will come to you in a more favorable light. In any case, zero VAT on children's diapers, infant formulas, or medicines will not harm our country as well as untaxed gambling without control, spread throughout the Republic as a wet plague. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u15	Thank you, and another with priority rights is Mr Radim Fiala, followed by Mr Petr Fiala. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, fellow Members, I would just briefly reiterate what the position of the Úsvit movement on the bill proposal is. We generally do not support the third rate of tax, whether it is 10% or as much as you want, because of course it increases bureaucracy, administration, and every increase in administration and bureaucracy, and various exceptions means a mess in the tax system. Of course, from this point of view, this is not good for us. Furthermore, it cannot be said that this is a pro-growth solution to this matter. In our view, the pro-growth solution would be, for example, a reduction in both tax rates by one percentage point, which could at least increase demand. In our opinion, it is a step populist, a bit ill-conceived, but nevertheless social. It's a step towards people where I can imagine seniors wondering if they're gonna choose to buy food, medicine, or pay rent from the financial package they have. And we have to deal with this situation. This is also why the Dawn movement will support this draft VAT Act and 10% VAT on medicines, books and other commodities important to life. The other thing I want to draw attention to today is whether the government is aware of the risks I have been talking about here today. This means, if he realizes that there will be an increase in administration, bureaucracy, that there may even be a bigger mess in the tax system. And most importantly, if he realizes there's going to be a state budget cutout. If he does and he can handle it, I'm calm. Again, the Dawn movement will support this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with priority rights, Mr Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although Mr Hájek wanted to deny me the moral right to discuss VAT here because of the payment schedule of the Civil Democratic Party, which you know only because our funding is extremely open and transparent and that we are speaking about it openly in public and we are setting an example for other political parties and new movements whose funding we do not know so much about, I am still leaving the remark here, as you know, so I did not respond to it immediately, and I will try to return to the substance of the matter, and that is the value added tax, and to say a few comments on what the government has put forward here. [[Muffled laughter in the hall]] As well as the amendments that I tabled on behalf of the Citizen Democratic Party. If the government uses tax and tax systems to solve social policy, and that is clearly this example, it is a bad procedure. You can't do social policy with taxes. The tax system is not an instrument for social policy. You have other instruments designed for social policy, which are much more effective. And if you really want to help, and that is probably the intention of the third VAT rate, if you really want to help families with lower incomes, wouldn't it be necessary to do something better to promote employment? But these would not be the recipes that the socialist government is presenting or implementing here, such as raising a minimum wage, but, on the contrary, it would mean reducing the cost of work, reducing social security contributions, for employees to drop above average high labour costs, and the cost of work is above average. In order to improve the conditions for job creation and, where appropriate, to increase the scope for wage increases. The government is putting forward a proposal that introduces a new element in the system, another, third rate of value added tax, just for some sort of selected stuff, such as medicine, books and child food. What will that accomplish? It will achieve that our tax system, which is already very complicated and inconspicuous, will become even more complicated and even less transparent. Moreover, citizens and entrepreneurs, who have barely adapted to the latest changes, will have to face other changes. And the whole thing you're putting on here isn't the worst thing about the state budget losing 3.3 billion a year. CZK, but the worst is the impact on entrepreneurs, on taxpayers who incur new administrative costs, and once again their environment, which is already difficult enough. Of course, there will also be problems with the precise definition of the goods to be covered by the third rate. Overall, it is not even clear why there is a special rate for these goods and not for others. And, of course, the new value added tax rate, and this has already been said, will lead to an increased risk of tax evasion and, of course, to greater administrative demands in tax collection. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see from my words, and I think I said it pretty convincingly, this is the wrong way. We're offering you a better way. We have a better solution that we want to propose to the government and which would really make life easier for our citizens and which will not create conditions for the whole system to become even more complicated, bureaucratized and there are opportunities for easier tax evasion. The two options are contained in the two amendments by the Civil Democratic Party that I have tabled. The first amendment under 1357 proposes a reduction of both basic and reduced value added tax by 1%, i.e. to 14 % and 20 %. And this amendment, followed by the second amendment under number 1358, which we are proposing in the event that the first option is not successfully approved and the House feels that the VAT rate is to be the third rate proposed by the government, and we propose that instead of introducing a third rate of value added tax of 10 per cent, the rate of 15% will be abolished and only two rates of 10 per cent and 21 per cent remain. So if you support our first proposal, we'll reduce the basic reduction by 1%, if you don't support it, you'll support our second proposal, so we'll only have two rates of 10 and 21 percent. I think that sounds pretty good for the Social Democrats, too. [[16.30 hours]] From what I have said here, it is clear that what bothers us above all is the introduction of the third rate. We don't want the third rate because the system is extremely complicated, it makes it inconspicuous, and we don't see any advantage in it. Moreover, in our view, the government has very badly calculated who would benefit from this measure. Do you really think this measure will benefit low-income families? That's not true! To reduce VAT, as you propose, the country that buys most of the drugs will earn the most. Then, of course, rich people, because they have a higher consumption and a reduction in the taxation of consumption will save the most, and only in some other places will it help people with lower incomes. What I am saying only confirms that social policy really cannot be made by changes in taxes, but you must implement it with real social measures. Real social measures are not very good for Czech socialists, just as unfortunately the Minister of Finance cannot yet simplify and improve the tax system. If you already want to make a change by power, join the amendments that I have tabled on behalf of the Civil Democratic Party, because they will not complicate our tax system, preserve its simplicity, help people and improve it overall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u19	Thank you. I will ask you then, Mr President, to read the amendments in a detailed debate. I have one factual point here, Mr Sed. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Open and transparent management of the ODS. Those are the words of the Prime Minister. By your means, Mr President, I would like to ask the President of the ODS in Uherské Hradiště to respond to the call for social democracy to publish its costs for the election campaign for municipal elections, because there is non-transparency and non-openness. Thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u21	Thank you, and now with priority rights, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u22	Then we'll deal with our colleagues at Uherské Hradiště and I believe you'll be satisfied. I don't think there's any reason to hide our little costs, unlike you, for a communal campaign in any city, except the Uherské Hradiště, which is, many times I've been there, a real city well managed by the mayor of the ODS. But let me get back to the press. As part of the preparation for today's performance, I found, as you all can, colleagues and colleagues, a stenographic record of the 2012 debate, when unfortunately our government had to proceed to propose an increase of 1 per cent for three years of both rates. From 20 to 14 to 21 and 15. We designed it, we pushed it. We think that at that time it was a measure that was coerced and that we had to take. Try to find some of the Members' speeches. At random, Bohuslav Sobotka, Lubomír Zaorálek, Mr Rykala, Mr Šincl. From those sentences, and there's a lot of them, I've memorized and I'll remind you of one thing: no one who has a social sense can vote for 21 and 15. It's less than two years, even now, who wants to check it out and find it, so today you have the option, not today, but when the third reading is done, you can also confirm this proposal by voting. At the time, you were against the legitimate view, for which we criticized you - today you are in favour. What changed? Well, we switched benches, coalition and opposition. I think that one should have similar views in the opposition and in the coalition, although sometimes, and Mr Urban has experienced this on his own, if he keeps his opinion, then he is beaten and whacked and labeled and scandalized for it, etc. It's just for opening my show. Look at the performances, I do not want to read these very long speeches, because in particular both Mr Sobotka and Mr Zaorálek during the last parliamentary term were famous for the length of their speeches. I would like to remind you of a matter that is not mentioned, and that is the fact that the third rate will be introduced, which will bring great costs to hundreds of thousands of business entities. When you change the rate, they in the software have a base rate, a reduced rate, and then there have no VAT. At the moment we introduce the third rate, everyone who uses economic software will have to buy some upgrades. Somewhere it's going to cost thousands, somewhere it's going to cost tens of thousands, with the largest systems, it's going to cost hundreds of thousands. In the explanatory report and in the justification for the impact, there is one single sentence, such a subtle one - it will have an impact on the business sector, which will increase costs. But that someone would try to figure out what it would be, it wouldn't be. That is why we propose if you want to introduce e.g. the 10% reduction in the rate to be one reduction in the rate. This is the second amendment mentioned by our President, Petr Fiala. That's the basic reservation. Of course, the rate is policy. That is where the political parties differ, and in this political struggle is about what is right and what their voters think and what is beneficial for their voters. President Fiala has made it clear that this is not a good thing for voters, at least the Social Democrats, who speak of them as their constituents. I'll try to ask a question and ask for an answer. There are defined state budget outages, respectively. public budgets as a whole for the three items, if I may call it the three items proposed at the third rate. A total of 80 million children's nutrition. In theory, that means what those who buy should save. It's $3 billion for drugs, and it's $200 million for books. And since we're all saying that's the interest of voters and taxpayers, I'd be interested in a $3 billion item. How much will be saved by hospitals and health care facilities, which are mostly not VAT payers and for which it will undoubtedly be savings. At the same time, however, the government increases the payment for state insured persons, cancels the fees, so it actually covers the savings, and nothing else, other steps, even at this meeting we have the cancellation of fees, which the government itself estimates for the loss of CZK 4.5 to 5 billion per year. And look, this week was information that although the fee will be abolished, they will pay 30 crowns in the pharmacy, but that there will be a government proposal for every prescription to receive a pharmacy of 12 crowns from health insurance companies. So it's going to pay. It gives the impression that citizens won't pay for it. But they're going to pay it because they pay taxes, they pay social and health insurance, and this money will compensate for it. I remember the Minister of Health's interview in recent days that said "yes, that's true, we'll save it" - that's what you have on those billboards, even though it's not approved yet, but it's already on your billboards - and at the same time he said "but at the moment we're looking for ways to compensate" You don't have that on billboards anymore. So my question is, if it is, from the petitioners or the government, how much will the tax payer actually save out of 3 billion, who buys some medicine and pays either a supplement or a full price of drugs, and how much of 3 billion will be saved by hospitals and medical facilities. I believe that the second group, hospitals and social facilities, will save much more, but they will miss the money saved for example. in the cancellation of hospital stay fees. These are not opposition data, but ask LDN operators what caused your decision not to pay a hospital stay fee. Patients, instead of being in home care because families were motivated not to pay, stay in hospitals, LDNs are overcrowded and new patients are waiting afterwards. So this was the wrong move you took. So the saving of hospitals, which is in this measure, is lost on the other hand, e.g. by this measure of our government. [[16.40 hours]] And I want to remind you of the 2012 debate when we justified the VAT increase. It was linked to pension reform. At that time, estimates differed as to how much of the first pillar's blackout would be. As government politicians, we estimated between 6 billion and 8 billion, the left and the union estimated 20 billion and more. Okay, we're done. We're done with the numbers. We don't have to argue, we weren't right, neither were you. The reality was much more sober - the blackout is less than 1 billion a year and is still decreasing every year. On the other hand, though, for example. Many left MPs said that the state would not raise an extra koruna if VAT was raised, so last year VAT was collected by the two rates of 30 billion more, of which about two thirds ended up in the state budget, around 20 billion, and the other money ended up in the budgets of regions, cities and municipalities. This year, when I saw the figures in the first eight months, the prognosis is that it could be some 35 to 40 billion against 2012, i.e. the selection will be even higher than in 2013, and if we keep the rate of 21 and 15, there'll be some 40 billion more. This means that over the three years, taxpayers will pay 110 billion, the failure from the ongoing system through the introduction of the second pension pillar will be 1.5, let's say 2 billion over the three years, so the net balance for public budgets is plus 108 billion. If I come out of government numbers and the government says it's going to save 3 billion, respectively. 3.3 billion, if the law passes as it is, it won't be 110 or 105, but it'll be either 107 or 103 billion. Apparently, there's room for us to go back to those rates of 20 and 14, plus when those steps that have been accompanied in other areas have also been canceled. And I want to remind you that it was only supposed to be for three years, i.e. the last year, when the increased basic rate was to apply, was to be 2015. You're suggesting that this should be true for the entire term of office. You are referring to the fact that once you have more to choose from, there will be a time for debate. You'll have a chance to... I'd like you to give me some peace, Mr. Steering Meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u23	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to keep your voice down so that we understand what is being lectured from the counter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u24	So I'd just sum it up. In three years 100, maybe 105, maybe 110 billion to raise the rate by one percentage point. Against that is the proposal to raise it again in those three years, in the next year, 3.3 billion. I would like to call on those who have criticized it so strongly to maintain their opinion and to vote in favour of our first amendment of 20 and 14 percent, because the space clearly exists. One of the previous speakers mentioned that ministers paid 16 billion in the summer for visiting Letensky. And that's good. The economy is growing. And if we say - and I'm going to round up these numbers - that GDP growth is projected to be about 3 percent next year, which is roughly 120 billion, of which roughly a third will end up in the state tax increase budget, that is another 40 billion. We think the measure makes sense. We did not propose our political agenda, what we think well, i.e. one rate of 15 percent, because we are aware of political reality, but we have proposed a compromise proposal which, I believe, could gain support in the House. However, if you go back to it so politically prestigiously that no amendment can go through, if you deny the words of 2012, well, it can be, then, in particular, the Social Democrats will tell us one thing - you were right, we were wrong. Or they'll vote with us and we'll say yes, we agreed that 20 and 14 because the blackout from the second pillar is really minimal, it doesn't have the fatal impact on the state budget, as many have predicted, and there's room for all to cut taxes. And please remember those hundreds of thousands of business entities that will actually have to invest in software change. It's not just a change in parameters that every accountant has in a minute or two. And if you insist on 10 percent, we're still saying that 10 percent and two percent are better than having three rates, and then you can support our second amendment. And one more thing. At the moment you approve the introduction of the third rate, I guarantee you that for each VAT amendment, for each VAT amendment, a proposal will come to convert some items from the first reduced rate to the second reduced rate. By the way, there is already a red light on a government MP who is proposing this at this point. We will all be subject to lobbyist pressures and say, "This item should also be in those ten, why is it unfairly at 15?" And there will be a lot of good arguments from the individual payers who will be in the first reduced, in the 15%, who will convince us to lower it to 10. So I guarantee you that for every, even technical, amendment, when we need to implement some measures from Brussels, we will be debating which items will be transferred from the second to the third rate, and we will be exposed to lobbyist pressures and the shrink of good reasons. I myself wonder how the proposal to expand commodities at the second new reduced rate will be justified. And I note that this is not proposed by an opposition MP, but by the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u25	Thank you. Václav Votava, rapporteur, came forward with another priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond in a few notes to what has been going on here. First of all, a colleague of Kalousek, who I don't see here right now. What he said here was pure hypocrisy and a piece of demagogy. I've heard it before, of course, on the budget committee. And no wonder he's using this rhetoric, the election is coming up, so, of course, there's something to say, something to impress. I understand he has the welfare of the citizens at heart. Yeah, but did he also have the welfare of the citizens at heart when he was increasing the currently reduced VAT rate gradually from 5 percent to 15 percent today? At this rate, there are the most sensitive items, food, and other vital things that people need. So I don't know how he felt about the welfare of our citizens. What if the uniform rate was 17.5 percent? This would, of course, increase the reduced one further and thus further increase the cost of living of people with low incomes, but of all in essence. So I think there's a lot of hypocrisy. He was talking about some gifts worth CZK 16 billion. Well, I don't know if the gift is an increase in social services, whether the gift for firefighters is a paycheck, even for police officers to pay their salaries, even that's in the quotes of gifts, which Kalousek here likes to emphasize and say very much. We all know there's no way to drop the reduced rate. We all know this is a bearable first step that can be done. And I think a very important step -- a reduction in drug prices. I believe that a reduced rate will be reflected in the prices of drugs, because the price of drugs is, of course, regulated by SÚKL. Moreover, in combination with the abolition of health fees, I think that this is an important aid to our seniors, who, of course, take the most care, but not just to our seniors, but to all citizens. Maybe I'd stop by and see what was said here from the mouth of the ODS. I will no longer be here to evaluate their transparency or non-transparency, after all, to show what their accounts are and how they treat the state as well. That's what everybody understood. They want to improve after the congress, so let's see if that's the case. They were talking about how the third rate would increase the demands on administration, but of course it would increase the costs of entrepreneurs. I'd just like to remind them of the super gross wage. Total nonsense introduced by the ODS. And that, my friends, when entrepreneurs had to change the software, you made it easier for those entrepreneurs! Plus, you've put such a mess in the payroll area. [[16.50 hours]] Now maybe you'll be glad it'll change eventually. Total stupidity - super gross wages! I'm glad that this coalition came up with the way it did. The super gross wage will be abolished because taxing something that is not your income is a complete stupidity - an escape. I don't know a country where there's such a thing. Friends, if you want to criticize, look into your own ranks as well as what you did. So much for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u27	Thank you. I have two factual points here. The first is Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I originally did not want to perform, however, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets provoked me to do so. I don't know if he even knows what he's talking about. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] I don't think Kalousek was doing any demagogy here or any flattery. There was a crisis. Maybe you think we should let it go, which you would obviously do, and then reach for measures like not adding money to retirees, but taking it away from them, which has happened over and over again in some countries. I'm just waiting for the economy to cool down again, and for some reasons, it's that you're finally gonna stop screaming and hitting people in the head that economic policy significantly determines economic growth, the state, and not the environment in which we find ourselves. You've been operating on this place over and over again. I must admit, a greater part of the nation believed you and chose you. However, what the Prime Minister is saying here, I can't agree with that harshly. I don't know if you want to get five rates for citizens in a while. If you had asked an economist, through Mr President, he would have told you that anywhere in this way was moving rates to this extent and so selectively that it was an oversight of the tax system. He would tell you that there is usually no discount if it is not regulated prices. I hope that at least on the medication item there will be some discount to consumers, which means patients, which is commendable. In other cases, I'm not so sure. If you start being - thank you. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u29	Thank you for respecting time. I'll ask Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u30	Unlike František Laudát, I wanted to perform. I listened carefully to the speech of the chairman of the budget committee. You have not made a single argument against our Amendment 20 and 14 and this is certainly not a leap reduction. I understand the argument of jumping down, really. We're not suggesting anything like that. We are proposing one percentage point and I have given clear figures on how the 2013 budget and eight months 2014 budget are being implemented. Those are the facts that I'm sure we agree on. Every month, it's published by the Ministry of Finance, and every member of the Budget Committee gets it electronically, so we all have the same numbers. But when you talk about super gross wages, they're paradoxes. Mr President of the Committee on Budgets through the President, according to today's legislation on what date should supergross wages be abolished? As of 1 January 2015. What do you suggest? Retard. I mean, the supergross wage brought at least one thing for every employee to see how much the employer's job cost - the 34 percent, before 35, just couldn't be seen. And you can say it's nonsense that something I didn't get is taxed, but the key is how much you're left with. And at the next point, which we will discuss in a few minutes, you propose to postpone or cancel the fact that the employees should have stayed roughly 20 billion from 1 January 2015. More. That's what you're suggesting! Nothing else. So I think it interests every employee, what is the difference between the gross wage and how much the net wage is, because it affects us with our political decision - how much social and health insurance is paid, how much income tax is paid. You're 20 billion. for public budgets, I think it's 15 for the state budget, so that we don't take the floor, I'm talking about public budgets, you're proposing to cancel - this discount. And that's the debate where we say taxes go up, you say they're supposed to be the same, and we're right about both groups because it depends on what time. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you. I'll sign in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u31	Yes, thank you. Now, Mr Okamura with a point of fact and then Mr Votava with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to respond, but when I heard President Votava and his final words that taxing something that is not income is nonsense, I don't understand you at all. After all, the Dawn movement here in winter had a bill to pay VAT after the invoice was paid. And we'd even like to add to that, and we're gonna propose that law again in the fall, and we're gonna talk about it again, so whoever has the invoice pays so that they can put it in costs when they pay it so there's no tax blackout. So you're telling us that it's nonsense to tax something that no one has received, and yet you voted against it when we suggested that VAT be paid from paid invoices! This means that you support cheaters who owe and still claim VAT, and you are actually sinking decent entrepreneurs who are getting into secondary insolvency, and this creates unemployment! Mr President, I know it was an opposition argument or an argument with the ODS, but when we argue, please do not spoil water and drink wine. And when it is here in the Chamber of Deputies in the autumn, I hope that you will therefore allow citizens of the Czech Republic and a million tradesmen and entrepreneurs to pay VAT only actually from what they get paid for their work. We'll design it. I will remember your words, so I will remind you of them, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u33	Only through me. Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u34	What my colleague Okamura said, through you, is kind of "me about the car and you about the goat." We've gotten far. I just wanted to respond when we came across a super gross wage, and I apologize for calling it a little different, colleague Stanjur, through the President. I remember your colleague Tlustý, then your colleague, shadow minister, or whatever it was, running around with such a circle and saying that there would be a uniform tax of 15 percent. Then you recounted it, and you found out that it would be a major budget hole, so you put social security and health insurance on it. I guess that's how a super gross wage came into existence -- that stupidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u35	Thank you. In addition to the factual remark made by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u36	I'm not as good as the chairman of the budget committee. I wasn't here in 2007, so I can't respond to how the debate was going and what anyone suggested. I'm sorry, I'm really not capable of that. However, since that year, the Social Democrats have said that we have left 80 billion completely wrong. to our entrepreneurs and our citizens. They did, they didn't. They did. And now they say it was wrong. I don't know. Should we have taken their money? Would that be good? That's what you've been saying all along, that we should have left higher taxes. And you have avoided answering the question of when, according to today's legislation, super gross wages are to be abolished. And what are you defending today? You are simply saying the exact opposite of what will be discussed in the next item and what I assume will have the support of government Members, as was the case with the Committee on Budgets. If you say that a supergross wage is a completely bad thing - I don't want to use the pejorative terms you use - then you have a chance to cancel it from 1 January 2015. But that's not what you want. You don't want that! So what are you guys blaming us for? Both. That we put it in place and that we didn't cancel it, that we picked it up or lowered it. It doesn't matter. In principle, only the Social Democrats are right. When they're in opposition, 15 and 21 are wrong! And when they're in government, 15 and 21 is good, 'cause that's when it was ripping people off, and today it's gonna ruin the budget. But they're still the same rates, same taxes! And we're saying that it's been three years and that we think there's a situation for us to cancel after two years. But you've completely turned your mind, colleagues from the left. Friends I'm not telling you, that's what you call yourself inside a social democracy. I use the word "colleague" because I really leave it to your intra-party and very lively debate, which we often observe. That's what I'd really like to hear from President Votava if he wants to answer. Of course, I can only ask him politely. Since when is a super gross wage supposed to be canceled? And what does he suggest? And 15 and 21 was good or bad? It was wrong in 2012. In 2014, you say that's a good thing. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u37	Now I don't register any factual comment, I don't register anyone with priority rights. In that case, we will proceed to those who are duly enrolled in the debate, and the first is Mr Jiří Dolejš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u38	Thank you for them, Mr President. Have a good afternoon, everyone. I won't be too long, don't worry, but let me speak with the club's position on second reading, because when I listened to those cocky duelants, I still felt that both right and left are the same friends of the people who mean well and just can't agree on how to achieve the well-being for the citizen. And it would need to be considered in the context and, secondly, sometimes take a pencil in your hand to not only the citizen, but also you here when you vote on the variations that are being faked here to know what you are voting on. Because it's a good thing that I suspect, after about ten years, we approach what we have claimed in the long run, which means that indirect taxes, when they overexposed, do not do any good for the citizen. After ten years, we will finally reduce indirect tax, namely VAT. And the whole debate is about how. It must be said that we are now approving a law, which will be effective from 2015, so on the basis of this valid and effective law, a draft state budget should be built, and therefore, if we approve something fundamental here, a quick link here to Karmelitská, so that Minister Babiš can redo the state budget. I think that's the obvious thing. So it's about whether there's room in the budget for various minor adjustments and if there's even a sense of change, or if we hit the structure in a more substantial way, how to make it profitable, so that it's either fiscally neutral, or let's just admit that those who propose a more fundamental impact on the revenue side of the state budget should also tell and tell the citizens that if they don't beat it, they sharpened the axe on the expenditure side and that they want to cut and cut and cut! Not to mention that part of the VAT revenue was to be prepared for the reform of the pension system and that the reform of the pension system was somehow not done. What we will do to the pension committee and what proposal comes to dealing with the second pillar and how it will be designed, respectively. The third pillar, this is an open matter, but undoubtedly this money will not be used to compensate for the effects of those changes that were adopted in 2012. So that's the basic framework of our reasoning. And now, somehow, in medias res, to the merit of what we come up with. It was said here that, as far as income measures are concerned, tax reductions are, in fact, either an act of budgetary caution, that is, we will reduce taxes, but not enough to damage the budget. So that it will be fiscally neutral, but that it should have an impact to rationalise the economic environment. And let's just say that if we slightly adjust the rate, it obviously translates into a collection, but it doesn't translate into a price level, which is particularly interesting to the person on the street, because when we raise indirect taxes, prices usually increase, but when we lower indirect taxes, and especially slightly, those prices usually stay parked where they are, because the competitive pressure isn't so big that someone lowers prices because of it. So this is undoubtedly a very important factor in all these considerations. I do not know if I can take the floor of the Emeritus Minister and colleague Kalousek when he announced here that if the current adjustment does not remain valid and effective, that is, that there will not be one rate of 17.5 per cent left, so that it would be in favour of parking everything that allows the European directive at a reduced rate. I don't know if this is going to be read in a detailed debate, but let's say it's a major extension. I would also be positive about this, I would think about it, because it kind of conjures up to what we are proposing, although not so boldly, that 10% of the previous one before 2012 would have been so widely conceived, but let's just say how much money it would have been. It's made up, what about it? I didn't hear it in here. Others or others who have come up with certain innovations are formerly government colleagues in ODS who say that the three-year period of increase will be reduced by one percentage point a year earlier, because, after all, times are better and we do not need so much money into the budget by this way. There's my reservation that it doesn't affect the price level, think about it, but I kind of don't think that this step is that important for us to argue about it this way. A much bigger problem is the number of rates. I would have liked the second variant that he spoke of, I think, colleague Fiala, namely Fiala the second one, I think Petr, who said that we could go back not before 2012, but even further backwards, that is, where the rates were at 10 and 20 percent. I don't know how serious this is, but that, of course, once again means a bigger blackout in the tax return. When we looked at the government proposal, I must say that we certainly do not want to bring the bad news to people, that at least in the selected commodities on which the government coalition agreed, and that it was difficult to argue, so that in these selected commodities, for social reasons, it is clear that VAT will be reduced. But let's consider, colleagues, even friends, I don't care, I'm not quite that convenient, if the three rates really aren't "zu power." I wouldn't make this a fatal thing. Of the 28 European countries, there is indeed one rate, apart from Denmark I think, that would probably be good for my colleague Kalousek, but there will also be countries where there are three rates. I suspect France, Luxembourg, perhaps Ireland. They'll find each other. It's more of an exception, it's an administrative moloch, it's a problem, but I can handle it. That is why we are also more positive about what the coalition has brought, but it is a breadcrumb policy. And we're proposing that we essentially cancel the proposal at the third rate, and what's at the reduced rate up until now is a sakum picum, so don't spread it over my colleague Kalousek, so put up the 10% rate that was here until 2012. The proposal was quite simple, but since I was accusing those who were thinking of a more fundamental cut in this way that they should either say that they want to cut expenditure or otherwise make it more profitable in the budget, I add that we have prepared a solution in this regard, in the next solution, namely personal income taxes, when, as was discussed before the elections of inadequacy of indirect taxes and VAT, the question of tax progression was similarly discussed. There I understand that it is difficult in the coalition because they did not agree there, but I still think that the real tax progression and not excessive, not just the game of progression with the help of the second rate, so that this economy deserves it, that it would kidnap it, and this is the internal logic of the two proposals - unfortunately, you will see me once again when we discuss the income tax on individuals. That's all I mean about our proposal. I think I've explained this clearly enough so that you can even think about it in the third reading, and as I said, it is given, so that you will see me once more, so that I can briefly and laconically apply to what is already given in the computer Houses system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u39	Have a good evening. I thank Mr Dolejš. I also have Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's factual comment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u40	Thank you for the floor. I won't need two minutes. I just want to find out that I have heard well whether Mr. Dolejš said on the microphone that the government has been fulfilling the programme objective of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia for ten years. This is what he started, and if that's true, it's more of a matter of thinking about government MPs. If I misunderstood, I'm sorry, there's no evil will in it. But I heard that sentence, and I didn't really want to believe it, so I came here to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u41	I thank Mr Stanjur. Mr Dolejš with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u42	A polite question has been asked, it is polite to answer. I am not saying that the government has referred to our opinion, which is really ten years old and older, that indirect taxes should not increase too much. But it really is, so this concoction of reasoning is undoubtedly worthy of attention. And I don't think you have to paint us in the role of some Jára Cimrman who inspires anyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u43	I thank Mr Dolejš. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is enrolled with a proper application for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues, the basic purpose of transferring drugs to a reduced rate of VAT was to reduce the cost of health insurance and, of course, the cost of paying people for medicines. At the same time, initial and follow-on child nutrition for children under three years of age is included in the 10% rate. We have also consulted the Health Committee with Professor Vyzula that it would be very appropriate for the 10% rate to include special nutrition for a group of people who are allergic to phenylalanine and celiac, gluten. And that's because there's no cure to help these people, and that would actually allow them to survive well, for those people who have a congenital allergy to these substances. From this point of view, we have dealt with Deputy Secretary Hornochová at the Ministry of Finance, and there was some helpfulness in considering that the basic raw materials for the production of these foods, such as gluten-free flour, in the case of the other group is being considered, or this could be included in this 10% tax rate, which would be a huge relief for this small group of people who really have no other way of achieving quality life than having access to these foods, and often pay very high amounts of money. We were promised that it would be possible to prepare this proposal for the following amendment to the value added tax, which we will still be discussing at this meeting. So far, I have wanted to inform you about this, and I am intercede to treat these groups of children in a similar way to the initial and follow-up diet for children under three years of age. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u45	I thank Mr Hovorka. With another proper application for the general debate, Mr Martin Komárek is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was part of a delegation in Gorbachev Russia back then in 1986. There was prohibition back then. Almost complete prohibition. [[A cheerful response in plenary.]] Now I don't run into our dry law in parliament, please don't worry. But once in a while a shipment came to the store not vodka, vodka was not at all, but so-called stacks, which was a dry alcohol, no, it was a wet alcohol in which some mushrooms or something were dissolved. It was extremely disgusting, but that's all the Rus had back then. And then I, I confess, stepped into line. She was pulling around three, four, five blocks. And when we came in after six hours, we saw that there was another line. It was on the other side. That's what the more important and the better came, the doers, and they took the stand all over the crates, while the poor common Rus or the regular visitor of Moscow could only take one bottle of that ugly drink. Why do I say that? Does anyone know? I'm sure you know that. I'm referring to the so-called. priority rights. The debate on this point began more than an hour ago, and the first properly applied speaker came to the floor after more than an hour, what gentlemen - I think there was no lady - gifted with the so-called priority right, which I think is a very undemocratic matter, here they exchanged pre-election messages. I understand that the opposition to this tribune, this priority right - I can already see that there are others who are claiming the priority right - but I, because I am against it, can do what the opposition is taking advantage of - and I can do it too, Mr Stanjur or Mr Kalousek through Mr President - talk for an hour or two. I don't have to have to read any law or fun books, I can even do it myself. And when I want to draw attention to something that I think is unfair, I just point it out. And I point out that so-called. the priority right is abused in a gross way. Personally, I think the legislator, when he meant him, meant a reasonable thing. He wanted the members of the government, the party chairmen, the club chairmen to speak for the government, for their department, or for their club. Today, however, the holders of priority rights are such folk entertainers. They're gonna set up a forbin. We all know that Voskovec and Werich organized forbins that were very funny, but this Forbin is usually not funny, and even journalists sometimes don't listen to it. A member of the ranks can't enter the Forbino. Please, this is not a criticism of opposition speakers. Not long ago, if we still remember, he spoke completely off the agenda, outside the meaning of this meeting, the Prime Minister with priority rights regarding children who are kidnapped-not kidnapped in Norway. I'm not saying it's not important. But it was completely off the show. It was completely beyond the logic of this meeting and because someone has priority rights and someone does not, and whoever has priority rights can act outside the logic and outside the time and space, so unfortunately, even those Members who were interested could not comment on it. A trick had to be used when the President allowed the Vice-President of the club to appear, although the President of the club was present. Club presidents were leaving, coming to enable this rape of the Rules of Procedure. Yes, rape of the Rules of Procedure, if you know him. I'm afraid you don't know him, because the order of the Vice-Presidents in which they're supposed to perform is to be determined, and it's not meant to be that the Vice-President or the Vice-President is being summoned. If you don't believe me, find it, it's quite simple. Well, of course, I know that this should change. I can't change it now. I can report to the debate as an ordinary Member, i.e. a Member of the second category, I can use the Institute for factual remarks, which I can also do indefinitely, but it is embarrassing. We just don't have any fair rules in this meeting. I'd like to change that. But at this point, I call on all the owners of the priority right to behave like gentlemen. I, when I have an advantage - if you remember, were affairs with beacons, that ministers, it was in the '90s, they blew, lit, rode like crazy, of course the public criticized it, and today the minister with the beacon hardly ever met because they realized it was possible without them. [[dissenting noise in the hall]] The debate in the House goes without prior rights. Of course, if we need to sell something absolutely important, essential, express the club's position, express ourselves on the threat of democracy and the like, use it or use it, I don't have it. If I had it, I wouldn't use it because I don't like any undeserved benefits. I just don't like them, and this is an undeserved advantage. Members of the Commons and Members with priority rights have not been elected here. [[The inconvenient speech of the diaper is more intense.]] Clearly, club and party officials may, in justified cases, exercise this right. You use them in completely unjustified cases. I didn't mean to hold you up, but--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u47	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I shall ask my honourable colleagues to remain calm and to hear from Mr Komárek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u48	Thank you. Also, thank you for not reminding me that I am not speaking to the point, Mr President, although you should, because I am not speaking to the point, but because no President is saying this to any Member, I understand that you are not saying it too. But that is also in the Rules of Procedure. But I'm done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u49	Who am I, Mr. Ambassador, to decide whether it's to the point, or not to the point. For other colleagues, we are just pointing out that we are talking about the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u50	Thank you. I thanked you, too. Of course, it's your call. But I can point it out because I can point out practically everything. So the debate could be endless. But I want to quit. I really think that priority right is something that destroys Czech democracy, ruins the House's life, and therefore the lives of the people who elected us and for whom we are to work, and that is why I will now end all my House speeches with little ingenuity by saying: I also consider that the priority right is to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u51	I thank Mr Komárek for his contribution to the second reading of the Value Added Tax Act. Mr Pavel Kováčik came forward with the right of priority, but this time with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice late afternoon. And it leaves me no more than to respond to the requests of the previous speaker to observe fair rules or to produce them, and so, in accordance with his speech, I also declare: I also consider that the rules are to be observed. And I will mention a few rules, such as the Rules of Procedure. For example, the rule, which by approving the six months schedule, tells us in which week the House of Deputies' activities or activities are to take place, for example, the schedule that gives us and sets out what we have Mondays for, what we have Tuesdays for, what we need Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and so on. I also call for the honourable colleague Komárek - through Mr President - to respect these rules, for example, as chairman of the electoral committee and not to call on the electoral committee on Tuesday, when they are to meet parliamentary clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u53	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Again, I warn you that we are still dealing with the Value Added Tax Act. I'm asking if anyone else - with priority rights, the chairman of the ODS MP. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u54	Mr. Komárek forgot his notes, so I'm returning them to him. Everybody get in line, nobody get in line. I'm sorry. I'm not the owner of a priority right, the owner is a political party and a political club. And the opposition has far less priority rights than the government coalition logically. If I did the math, then 17 ministers, 3 members of the House's leadership, then some party chairmen are in the government, then 3 club presidents, it's 23. You have 4 opposition parties, so 8, although I would say that you have two opposition parties and two semi-governmental, but well, 23: 8. One. Secondly, in the last parliamentary term, it was us as a government coalition who complied with the request of our colleagues in social democracy and granted priority rights to the party chairmen. Imagine, Mr Komárek, through the Vice-President, that until three years ago the party's chairman had no prior rights, only the club presidents had them. Colleagues from Social Democracy suggested it and we supported it because the arguments were quite logical. And that prerogative also protects the opposition so that it can say something. If you want to be so fair, look at the time when we put forward the parliamentary bills and when the House will discuss them. Five, six, seven, eight months lying there, always taking the majority priority, I respect that, but then we wouldn't be able to say anything we want at all. Mr Dolejš from KSČM, to be precise, to avoid making the same mistake as in the previous parliamentary term, he meant about cartoon or joke that we are all standing here fighting for the welfare of citizens. I don't think it's a joke that it's just a public service of politics and we're different in our opinions on how to make that happen. It may be too pathetic, we might choose some of us other words to ensure good conditions for a peaceful, good, quality life, but that is the task of politics and of us politicians and, of course, let us argue about it, and that we have other ways and other tools to achieve this. Mr Komárek, in the name of democracy, proposes to limit minority rights. That's all it is. And I didn't want to stall. I'm not the owner, so I don't have to stick to things. But there are things that are such as that in the electoral committee chaired by my colleague, we find that there will be a violation of the law, we vote on whether to bring this question to the House, because only the House can deal with it, and to my surprise, a majority has not been found in the club, including the President of the Election Committee, who was opposed to the obvious violation of the law, and I understand that this is unfortunate, and I voted for the appropriate words, I do not want to repeat the debate in plenary. But why isn't it designed here? Why isn't that point listed? Why are we pretending that the problem doesn't exist? Well, because if we don't put him on the program, he doesn't really exist. The one who has the authority to decide and correct the illegal state, the Chamber of Deputies, does not know about it! Fifteen members know about this, well, we weren't fifteen, well, but 15 members of the electoral committee know about it, because we all have background materials, even those who had to apologize, and the President has apologized and called a meeting on an extraordinary date with the fact that this is an extremely important matter and, of course, the committee's position on the matter should have come when it was already on an extraordinary date. But again, words and deeds are two different things. Why did you, Mr President, not suggest - through the Vice-President - the House of Placement? Why does the opposition Member have to talk about this at a point that has nothing to do with it? Who do you want me to interpel? Because it's not a government thing. That's the High Command of the House. So the opposition MP can't even propose to the government in the context of an interview, whether written or oral, to correct this. So let's start with each other before we say if anyone is or isn't a folk storyteller. I don't think of myself as him, and I hope you don't consider me a folk storyteller. If so, well, I'm sorry, I just didn't have that goal. But you're not suggesting anything but restricting the rights of the opposition. If it were to be fair, we would take turns in the program - government, opposition, government, opposition. We have 95 bills at this meeting, 66 first readings and 29 second and third. And on purpose next Friday, when the meeting is over, if you don't crash the rules and put the meeting by the committee week, which I don't know, we haven't been able to agree on this today at the meeting of club presidents with the House's leadership, so let's do statistics on how many percent of the government's bills will be discussed at this meeting and how many percent of the opposition MP's proposals will be discussed. I would like to be wrong, but I am sure that the percentage of government proposals will be much higher than the percentage of opposition proposals. So when do we get a chance to talk? When you allow us, in three years' time, to discuss in 2017 the proposal of Members such as the ODS, which they submitted in January 2014? After three years? Or after three and a half years? I don't understand at all. If you're impatient, challenge your colleague, Faltýnek, and become the president of the club, and you'll be the owner. I think he's the bearer, that it belongs to the club, not to the particular person. So I'm not the owner of the priority right, but our political party is legally equipped with two votes with priority rights. You've got 23 of them together as a government coalition. And if it's any of your concern, you can be a member of the MP's club, you could have suggested a point as the chairman of the electoral committee, you could have mentioned it, you could have had a lot of space here to solve a real problem that we both know that there is a real problem. But I, as a member of the electoral committee, will not propose that point. That's why we got some leadership from the committee. You called it in an extraordinary matter, on an extraordinary date, and the result is zero. Zero! We swept it under the rug. I must point out that the government MEPs also voted for the inclusion of the item, it was not a vote that the government MEPs as one man and one woman voted against and opposition on the contrary, so it was not, it was simply mixed, but unfortunately it was just us - just for the sake of illustration - there were eight out of fifteen of us, we were represented by one hundred percent, because we have only one place in the committee, you assigned it to us, and I was there, and four were in favour and four opposed. Only four Members were sufficient to prevent a serious conflict with the law that we did not cause, because we also said in the debate that there were other solutions that were in the hands of a particular member of the media council, but unfortunately this did not happen. [[17.30 hours]] Tomorrow morning you have a chance to re-design it, and we will certainly be in favour of putting that point in place, and feel free to agree that it will be Thursday at 18, if we act exceptionally on Thursday at 6 p.m., and it can be a point that will be relatively simply settled, because we all members of the electoral committee have the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute that this is a flagrant violation of the law. And I just want to remind my colleagues who don't have the information, that the opposition didn't call the meeting, that it didn't initiate the opposition. Unfortunately, it wasn't. So that the debate should be as if it were complete about who has or does not have priority rights, what powers the committee chairmen or vice-chairmen of committees or the chairmen of our parliamentary chamber or vice-chairmen have. We really see this as an attack on the democratic rights of a minority, even though you are not enjoying it and you feel that we are wasting our time here. But it is a reaction to the fact that our proposals simply lie, lie, lie, and do not discuss. I have to say fairly that we agreed on a pre-preliminary meeting and we included the House's grémium. opposition window. We got four hours, but the debate on our first bill was so lively that we couldn't even end it, so we've already cut the point - three months? We are interrupted by the point of Parliament's opposition proposal at first reading for three months. And I'm almost sure - and I'd like to be wrong, and if I'm wrong, I'll be glad - that he won't make it to this meeting again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u55	I thank Vice-President Stanjur with priority rights and now I have three factual points and one priority right. First of all, Mr Kováčik, Mr Komárek, then Mr Faltýnek, then Mr Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, in order to preserve objectivity, I must now give the foreman's truth to Mr Stanjur. As an opposition party, we have a wealth of experience with what he says here that opposition bills stand in the queue for months, unnegotiated, unlisted, or eliminated. Of some, basically from all the previous periods of this Chamber of Deputies, some of our bills have been discussed as opposition parliamentary proposals, even though presented in the first half of the term of office, until the last half-year, and some have not even been able to negotiate. So here we have witnessed a discussion, for example. Print numbers 56, where in the vicinity of that meeting day were print numbers 987, 1052, and so on. As if by chance they were opposition prints, i.e. communist, as if they were ODS right-wing governments at that time, TOP 09. So, Mr. Stanjura is right. Yes, this treatment of the opposition seems to be the usual standard here. I would ask that we focus on the fact that there are rules here that we continue to behave and follow these rules so that we do not interpret them purposefully. And there's one thing that President Stanjura is right about. It's just that priority rights aren't someone's privilege or ownership. Priority law is a chance that is given primarily to opposition MPs so that at least sometimes they can express their opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u57	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. With another factual remark, Mr Martin Komárek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u58	First of all, what the previous speakers said about how the club is, that's not true, I'm declaring it with full responsibility, it's just not true. I'm not saying they're lying, I'll deal with them myself. But what's important is... Mr Stanjura is wrong or he is contradicting himself when he says that abolishing the right of priority would damage the opposition. Because you yourself said that the coalition has more priority rights. So if we shut them down, the coalition would be damaged. And it has already been said here, I think, by mistake, that some Members of one coalition party voted on what they did not know. And, Mr Stanjur, I ask you through the President: can your Members not speak? They can't sign up for the debate that only you and Mr. Fiala need to speak for them, or especially you? They really can't do that? You don't have a common position that they could make, too? Even if you wanted to obstruct and the priority rights were revoked and all the opponents spoke out, they weren't hiding in the benches, and they were speaking normally, so you could reconstruct. There are no restrictions on the minority. Look how the Bundestag walks. That's where you could talk about limiting the minority. Do you know how the Bundestag walks? If you know, please put it on the microphone here if you want. Thank you. After all, I'm assuming that the priority right is to be revoked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u59	Now, first of all, Mr. Jandák's point of fact... Sorry, Mr Faltýnek took precedence, I apologize to Mr Jandák. After that, Mr Jandák, Mr Stanjura, Mr Benda, followed by Mr Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u60	Good afternoon. I apologize through the President, Mr Stanjur, whom I respect - so now I do not see him, yes, he is here. You know, it's in my opinion - it's not an attack on democracy. But I measured the timeline of my colleague Stanjura's performance. He's been talking for 12.5 minutes. In my view, he repeated it six times over and over - and I know and please, Mr President through the President, do not respond to my speech, I beg you, it is just a factual point - in my opinion it could simply be said in two minutes. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u61	I thank Mr Faltýnek. Now the honored colleague Jandák mentioned earlier. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Here, colleagues, you've seen in practice what a priority right is -- you caressed me. No, I just wanted to say one thing. Please calm down and see what the point is about value added tax. And then, colleagues, in 35 minutes, the most important meeting of this decade will begin, so that we don't miss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u63	Twenty-four, Mr. Colleague. I thank Mr Jandák. In addition to the factual remark made by Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u64	I know it's a popular method to apologize first, then insult your opponent and then politely ask him not to react. Maybe I could have said it in two minutes. As much as Mr Komárek wonders, I am going to defend my fellow Members again. And please, Mr. Ambassador, don't insult them, through the Vice-President. A number of our Members have already spoken today, there will be a number of other points. Feel free to find a percentage of how many Members from our ranks refer to points as rapporteurs and with expert proposals and with amendments and how many of your own. And feel free to hit me and tell me I was talking bad, that I was a folk entertainer, that I was too long and I wasn't supposed to talk for 12 minutes, but two. But don't insult my colleagues. At least today my colleague Zahradník spoke with a helpful speech on the proposal from social democracy, my colleague Jana Černochová, today awarded as the best mayor in Prague Castle within statutory cities, is performing more. And that's why when you say they're not gonna be priority rights, everything's gonna be according to the majority. And I respect that. The program will be by majority, points in a row. Today we saw the Home Secretary say, "I'm up for the point, then he won't vote for it." Let's not talk about that point. And since Jana Černochová suggested it and could no longer respond to the act in accordance with the law, then the club chairman must start. Or maybe it doesn't, but it can! And I want to fight for my Members and Members. You may not like it, but please don't insult me. They don't hide behind anybody, they don't shut up, they act often and qualified. Feel free to hit me, I can handle it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u65	I thank Mr Stanjur. With another factual remark, Mr Marek Benda, after that, unless there are any more factual remarks, with priority rights, President of the TOP 09 Membership's Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u66	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond to Mr Komárek, who, I do not know why today, has brought this debate here in income tax, whether it is some kind of government obstruction strategy or what the objective is. But why is there a preferential right for club presidents in the House, and since the last parliamentary term, and also for political party leaders? Because the government, from the Constitution, as well as the President of the Republic, from the Constitution - and you know very well that when the President of the Republic comes, we interrupt the meeting completely and no one responds to it - the government has this right of priority. In order to balance this preferential right of government, which is constitutional law, the right of the opposition, the chairmen of the club and the political parties to the Rules of Procedure should therefore be given. So that the preferential right of government is balanced. This means, please, to my colleague Komárek, before he walks around with these challenges - the priority right to be revoked - to bring the first amendment to the Constitution. Then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u67	I thank Mr Benda. Now, if there is no further factual point, with priority rights, the President of the TOP 09 MP Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, but the ongoing debate has brought confusion into the minds of the Members and Members of the TOP 09. At this point, we are not entirely sure what is the subject of the negotiations, because the debate and the point on which we were prepared -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u69	I apologise, Mr President, I would like to ask the honourable fellow Member to remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u70	- there are two different disciplines, which is why we need to get these ideas straight in our heads. That's why I dare ask you for a 20-minute recess for our club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-16-ps2013-017-01-002-008.u71	I am therefore interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies within 18 hours following a request for a break. At 6:00 p.m., an adjourned meeting should follow to the point of the Ukrainian crisis. This meeting is adjourned until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It will be followed at 18 o'clock today by a meeting to Ukraine. Just to be clear. Thank you.
