ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u1	178. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn a ranking of Members, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14:30 to 16:00, to other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I now give the floor to Mrs Věra Kovářová, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka. Please prepare Mrs Váhalová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister, the nomination by Věra Jourová for the post of European Commissioner for Justice, Consumer Affairs and Gender Equality has sparked quite a rich debate. However, one important aspect is neglected. The point is that Mrs Jourová, as Minister for Regional Development, is undoubtedly busy preparing for barbecue in the relevant committee of the European Parliament. Surely it is not a mistake to believe that a number of important negotiations have taken place in this context, and a number of important negotiations will take place, which will increase the Minister's chance for a successful procedure. After all, it is in the interests of the Czech Republic, and I am certainly not the only one holding Mrs. Jourová's fingers. In connection with the busyness of the Minister, the appointment of a new representative of this department becomes a very urgent question. The Ministry of Regional Development, which currently prepares a number of materials that are very substantially affecting not only municipalities and cities, deserves a full-fledged minister, who will be able to devote 100% to the resort as soon as possible. I consider the deadline that has been made in the media too late and I just want to believe that it has not been set with regard to the date of the municipal elections. Unfortunately, Mrs Dostálová's problematic reputation, which, according to my information from the press, is considered successor to Minister Jourová, would suggest this. The parties to the government coalition would undoubtedly not be appropriate if Mrs Dostálová's case in the area of drawing up European funds and public procurement should be discussed shortly before the municipal and senate elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u3	Madam, I'm sorry, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u4	Dear Prime Minister, I urge you to make a proposal for the appointment of a new Minister for Regional Development as soon as possible, preferably in the order of days. It is only by this way that you will avert the suspicion that the interest in the proper administration of such an important resort is superior to the electoral success of the parties to the government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u5	Thank you, and Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor now. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u6	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to keep my fingers crossed and wish Secretary Jourová a successful hearing in the European Parliament. He will be in charge of an important portfolio, which in the past was held by representatives such as France or Italy, and in particular the area of consumer policy, in my view, is also very attractive in the functioning of the European Union as such. But to get to your question, Madame. I think my position as Prime Minister is quite clear. In recent days, I have asked Mr Andrej Babiš to present the nomination for a new Minister or a new Minister for Regional Development on the basis of a coalition agreement concluded by social democracy with YES and with the people. This coalition agreement shows that the ANO movement nominates its representative to the head of the Ministry of Regional Development. That is, on the basis of the coalition agreement, given that I expect Minister Jourová to resign following a hearing to take place in the European Parliament at the end of this month and to take place in the first two weeks of October, I think it would be good if the YES movement had submitted a proposal to the new Minister as soon as possible. There's a lot of reasons for that. There is no doubt that Minister Jourová has completely different concerns now, which relate not only to the preparation for the hearing, but mainly to the preparation for its work within the European Commission. They must now assemble a team of their co-workers, who will support it in its work in the European Commission, and they must get to know their colleagues, with whom they will work in the Commission, including Mr Juncker. So there's a lot of these things. It is true that the Ministry of Regional Development is now extremely busy because it is in charge not only of coordinating the implementation of European funds within the final financial perspective, but, above all, it is the coordinating and methodological body for drawing funds from the European Union, which awaits us in 2014 to 2020. And here it is clear that the new Minister must be at the head of the Ministry for Regional Development as soon as possible, and I am also convinced that he should be an expert on European funds, because the new Minister for Regional Development will not have a minute to learn European funds. It must be someone who is already orienting in the area, simply because the Czech Republic is busy. We just don't have time. We have decided not to disturb the Ministry of Regional Development precisely because we consider it useful for there to be a department within the state administration that will cover the issue of drawing funds from the European Union. I must say that it has proved to me over the past seven months that we have left the Ministry of Regional Development. I think that Minister Jourová has played a very good role as coordinator, and I would consider it useful for a new minister to take up her place as soon as possible, who will be dedicated to all these complex matters. I would remind you that at this point, we have an approved partnership agreement from the European Commission. Now we're going to have to discuss individual operational programmes, that's another important phase. We will have to comment on European institutions' comments on operational programmes. And I would very much like to have all operational programmes approved by the end of this year. However, it is not only about approving them by the end of this year, it is also about preparing individual ministries, individual managing bodies, to write calls. I would like us not to lose the 2015 construction season, which is why it is very important for the Ministry of Regional Development to coordinate the procedure with other ministries already, to prepare the challenges on the spot, so that before the end of this year we will introduce potential applicants for money from European funds from individual operational programmes, where they will be able to sign up, what they will be able to sign up for, and in what time horizon. It would also be ideal if we had a schedule of challenges for each operational programme by the end of this year. This too is another reason for there to be as little a fight as possible and for the new Minister for Regional Development to be appointed as soon as possible. It is now the move of the YES movement, Chairman of the ANO movement, President of the Andrej Babiš movement, and I expect it to present a concrete proposal in a short time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u7	I thank the Prime Minister and I see the lady on her way to the counter because she wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister. What you mentioned here is just important for the Minister to be appointed as soon as possible. You said you approached the YES movement to tell your candidate to appoint her candidate, but Mrs Jourová's resignation has been known for a long time. So I'd like to hear an approximate term. As Prime Minister, you can appoint a minister when you want, so that it is possible to follow up on the work of the Minister smoothly, even considering what you have said here, on the importance of the very following months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u9	I, too, thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u10	Thank you. Madam, I think we have the exact same view of the matter, the very same view that there should not be any conflict, if possible. I assume that Minister Jourová will inform not only the Prime Minister but also the Chairman of the ANO movement about the date of his resignation as Minister for Regional Development. That means Mr. Andrej Babiš will know in time when the Minister is ready to resign his post. As of this date, I suppose there should be a proposal from the YES movement to appoint a new Minister for Regional Development. I just want to make it clear that the appointment of a minister is not within the competence of the Prime Minister. I can only propose it to the President of the Republic, but I presume that the President, on the basis of the Constitution and in the spirit of the Constitution, will accept such a proposal, because here it is really a power which is primarily for the Prime Minister to decide how the Government is to be composed. But since it is not a government that one political party would form, it is a coalition government, we have an agreement, and the coalition agreement clearly describes the procedure in the case of the exchange of a member of the government for a coalition party. I can only confirm and repeat, the move is YES, the move is Mr. Andrej Babiš. I expect the proposal to be on the table no later than the moment Minister Jourová announces that she intends to resign as Minister for Regional Development. I would also like to appreciate her position when she has made it clear that she is going to this candidacy to the fullest and that she does not intend to skate or to somehow accumulate functions, to calculate what will work out and what will not work out, and that she is ready to resign before a relevant hearing is held at European Parliament level. I think it's a very open, clear and honest approach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. I now ask that Mrs Váhalová, who was drawn second, speak with her intervention. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Prime Minister, government, esteemed colleagues, there are an estimated 100,000 people living in the residential hotels. Advantageous business with poverty started mainly during the reign of Petr Nečas after the liquidation of a functioning system of social work in municipalities. As a result, thousands of people have taken advantage of the status of personal bankruptcy by increasing negative phenomena such as debt, execution, poverty. Only in the last year, 25 grand, which is a quarter more than a year before. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, how the government is fighting the business of poverty. What is he up to and how far is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u13	I thank the Member and the Prime Minister for his reply. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u14	Thank you. I think that this is a problem which is plagued by a number of residents of the Czech Republic. This is systemically related to the fact that we have deregulated rents in our country, which put many people in a difficult social situation - I want to mention, for example, singles or singles with children or singles. Very often the rent is higher and the energy-related charges are higher than the income of such a self-living pensioner or single-parent. Then, of course, there should be social policy instruments to help these people. The problem is, we don't have a social housing law. The problem is that in many municipalities and cities there is no comprehensive, interconnected system of care for people who find themselves in a housing emergency and cannot help themselves or help their family. There, of course, there was an area that was commercially filled, even on the basis of an unthinkable reform, which was promoted by Minister Drábek, when a number of people from the employment offices, respectively, were transferred from the municipalities to the employment offices, while the number of employees of the employment offices was reduced, and thus the labour authorities ceased to control the provision of social benefits. You're asking what the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is doing with it right now. In particular, the Ministry submitted an amendment to the Act. It is an amendment to the law on aid in material distress, which is now being discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I firmly believe that it will be approved and that the Senate will also approve it and will apply as soon as possible. The amendment therefore responds, first, to the poverty business, that is to say, the practice of some of the hosts who charge their clients - the recipients of social benefits high cost of accommodation for the apparently inadequate quality of accommodation. This means that there are high charges for accommodation in one room of several people, common facilities in the hallway, or obviously someone here benefits from how the welfare system is set up. That has to be changed in the law. Without a change in the law, we're not gonna end the poverty business, and these businessmen are gonna keep making money on it. So a change of law that is now in the Chamber of Deputies. The second thing that happened at the level of the labour authorities - I firmly believe that this will have a positive effect - is to strengthen control activities and carry out investigations in the field of social benefits. The government approved an increase in the number of employees of employment offices by about 600 people in the Czech Republic. These people have been gradually admitted to the labour offices in recent months, starting to investigate social benefits, checking whether these benefits are paid rightly. In my opinion, we will be able to prove that the increase of 600 state employees paid off. As much as I have information, and I have recently been required to consult the Labor Office staff in the South Moravian Region, so only this strengthening of control activity leads to the identification of social benefits that are paid wrongly and will mean some savings for the state budget. But in order to prevent, above all, the cause of the problem that is here, it is not just about tightening up the benefits, preventing entrepreneurs from benefiting from the system, but also about having a sophisticated system of care for people who find themselves in need from their housing. Here it is important that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, speed up the preparation of the law on social housing. We haven't had that here in the Czech Republic for 25 years, so it's also one of the other debts that the new government is trying to correct very quickly. I firmly believe that next year in the debate with the municipalities, with the cities, the regions we will succeed in bringing this law into the government so that we can get it to Parliament so that the Czech Republic finally has a law on social housing. And the last thing I might want to add to that. We would also like to use European money precisely for the purpose of building social housing in a specific system. So we would be very happy if next year we could write grant titles that would allow municipalities, cities to build starting apartments and build housing for seniors, for example, in the form of certain modernized nursing homes. Here I think that we should and could use the European Union's money effectively to promote social housing. The government has just tried to create space within the upcoming operational programmes and also partnership agreements for this. If municipalities and cities are willing to go into these activities, then I think the government is able to give them sufficient support through European funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u15	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member - yes, he wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u16	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It's just like you said. We lack the social housing law discussed with municipalities and with the provision of funding. But above all, not the consequences need to be addressed, but the causes. And I believe that this government will deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u17	I'm asking the Prime Minister for a statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u18	Thank you. I can only agree with you. We in our country and under pressure from the Constitutional Court and under pressure from property owners have deregulated rents, with a consensus being created at that time, that there should be a system of social benefits that will equalize people who will not prosecute rent simply because they will not have it. I think that consensus should not be questioned, but a system must be created so that the benefits are not made by entrepreneurs who have been buying dormitories in recent months and years and who have tried to move to those hostels to clients who have long-term entitlement to social benefits. So there has been a specific area of business created that parasites, literally parasites on the existing form of social welfare rules, and I don't think any decent government can tolerate or tolerate this parasiticism. But that doesn't mean that everything's okay here and that the moment we cancel the hostel business, the problem will go away. It will not disappear, and that is what we need to follow up with the social housing law, so that people who are legally in need of housing have the right to be helped, so that municipalities here have the opportunity to offer a helping hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before I invite the third drawer, I'm forced to read the apologies so we can keep them on the screen. Then, of course, Mr Šincl gets the floor. For today's meeting, Mrs Ivana Dobešová apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Huml without giving any reason, Mrs Lorencová, for personal reasons, Mr Komárek, for personal reasons, Mr Benešík, for reasons of work, Mr Černý, for reasons of work today from 5 p.m. and tomorrow all day and Minister Stropnický for afternoon negotiations until 18 p.m. for working reasons. You have the floor now, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, by the end of August, 535 thousand were looking for work in the Czech Republic. Jobseekers, which is about 8,000. less than this July and 16,000. less than last August. On the other hand, the number of job vacancies has increased to almost 55,000, which is almost 4,000. more than a month ago and by 14,000. more than a year ago. There were so many openings here last time in early 2009. This can undoubtedly be described as an improvement. However, there are regions in the Czech Republic where the situation is far worse than those average numbers. I am particularly troubled by the situation in the Moravian-Silesian Region, where the number of unemployed is 31. 8. almost 84 thousand. This can be imagined as almost the whole of Pardubice including infants. There are more than 22,000 unemployed in Karviná County, which is 12.3 %, and one - any - job vacancy is applied for by a long queue of almost 35 unemployed. This can be imagined as a whole of Chrudim including infants. That may be one reason why our region leaves several thousand people every year. Prime Minister, I have long been convinced that the solution to this situation is to acquire new investors and also to maintain existing ones, as is the case with investors in the Karviná Nové Pole industrial zone, which I personally helped build with my colleagues from the region and which currently employs almost 2,000. People. However, our region needs new, other investors, employers to help resolve this situation. I had several dozen meetings with investors in my former office, so I know exactly what investors want. Investors don't come to us with social unemployment projects. Investors come where they have the best conditions in terms of suitable real estate, where the region can offer them labor and other conditions for investment. And the Moravian-Silesian region undoubtedly -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u21	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u22	No doubt it has to offer something more than Prague or Plzeň. For this reason, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you: What support is your government planning for our region and region of Karvinsko in this area, and what new investors in our region can we look forward to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u23	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u24	Thank you. Dear Member, perhaps just a few numbers concerning the whole Czech Republic, but then I will return especially to the Moravian-Silesian Region. In the first six months of 2014, the CzechInvest agency records 116 investment projects. The number exceeds significantly the number of projects that were mediated in 2013, i.e. one year earlier. This year's investments should bring more than 78 billion to the Czech economy. CZK and create over 14,000. jobs. Almost half of the number of seats, a total of 5 745 seats, should be created in the Moravian-Silesian and Ústí Region, that is, in two regions with the highest unemployment rate in the long term. As far as the Moravian-Silesian region is concerned, I've been visiting there recently. I had the opportunity to deal with the authorities specifically in Karviná and Orlová, which means in that part of the Moravian-Silesian region where the highest unemployment has been reported in the long term. I think the government's approach must take into account several aspects. Firstly, we should do everything we can to maintain existing jobs. So the point is, for example, to look at the issue of energy-intensive industry, which is very often located in the Moravian-Silesian Region, and today creates a number of very well-paid jobs, and look at, for example, the costs that this industry has in contributions to so-called renewable resources. Here, the government is preparing an amendment to the law, which should give some relief to these companies, which have a high energy intensity and, at the same time, create a large number of jobs. The second aspect is the availability of sites where new investments could be placed. We have several industrial zones in the Moravian-Silesian region, some are already filled, some are being prepared. I am glad that it was possible to take advantage of the fact that there was still enough space in the Mošnov industrial zone, and thus managed to arrange the investment of Hyundai Mobis, which should create around 900 new jobs there. As far as Karvina is concerned, the project of the Nad Barborou industrial zone is being prepared. There I think that the government should provide the city with maximum aid in this regard in order to create a new territory where direct investment could go. At the same time, it is necessary to avoid endangering the industrial zone where OKD is potentially undermining. This is an industrial zone that you mentioned, which is now largely filled with employers who create a large number of new jobs in Karvina. Another aspect is also very important. We are now trying to change laws where we have a legitimate feeling and we have clear knowledge that they are barriers to economic growth and prevent further development of the Czech Republic. One of those laws that we need to change is the law that defines the set-aside fees from the agricultural soil fund, because I am constantly encountering the fact that in existing industrial zones, which have been designated as industrial zones for many years on the basis of a territorial decision, the rash amendment that has been adopted under the impression of the Nečasův Government has dramatically raised the set-aside prices from the agricultural soil fund, and it literally discourages dozens of investors from making their investments in these industrial zones. I think it's a big mistake. I have asked the Minister of the Environment to reduce as soon as possible - I hope this will happen during the month of September - to the government of the amendment, which will be in industrial zones that have been approved in the past as industrial zones, the set-aside fee from the agricultural soil fund in such a way that we do not unnecessarily deter investors who come and create jobs with us. What is, I think, also very important is that we reduce the implementation of any investment project in the Czech Republic by such changes as the construction law or the territorial decision process as much as possible, because we also have to ensure that we maintain competitiveness here, and it is not possible for the Czech Republic to be on the top of those countries in terms of the length of implementation of the investment project as a result of the legislation that applies to us. So many just a few comments concerning the Moravian-Silesian region in particular. I want to assure you that the government will continue to work very closely not only with the Regional Labour Office but also with the Moravian-Silesian Region as such, with the authorities in the Moravian-Silesian Region. Of course, building transport infrastructure in this region also remains a priority. I am glad that there has been a positive shift in a number of buildings in recent months. Even building transport infrastructure can be something that the government can start better economic development in this region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u25	Thank you. I see that Mr Šincl wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u26	Yes, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, you mentioned the Nad Barbora Industrial Zone. By supporting this project, the state would send two significant positive signals to us. Firstly, the signal that the state intends to invest here and shows to all investors that it pays to be interested in this region. Secondly, a new location for investment entry will be prepared, which Karvinsko today misses significantly. From this point of view, in my view, this industrial zone is crucial for the region. My supplementary question is whether you are still preparing any further, new ongoing incentives for our region, which would allow for a situation with unemployment, which is really huge here, to improve whether you intend to continue with this effort. This is, for example, an improvement in aviation connections, as you have already mentioned, transport connections, reducing the complexity of bureaucracy in the preparation of projects, territorial decisions and building permits, etc. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u27	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u28	Thank you. I think if we look at the project of the Nad Barborou industrial zone, it's a project that will require at least two years of persistent effort. Here I want to offer support and assistance from the government. We're gonna look for ways to support this project. Gros activities will, of course, be at the Karvina Authority, so that the Authority continues its efforts to create and invest this industrial zone. I think it is an important alternative in terms of expected restructuring of the mining industry in the region. We need to prepare options here for new people's employment. [[15.00 hours]] I just want to remind you that, at a time when they were restructured in Western Europe, whether it was Germany or France, regions that were once built mainly on heavy industry, including mining industry, the governments there also invested, there was also public support for the regional economy to refocus on new types of production. This is exactly what we need to support in the Moravian-Silesian region. I am glad that this is going well in a number of areas, including the fact that a major automobile company is located there. This means that it also creates a certain core of new economic activities and that we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. And now, please, another drawn in order, Mrs Nytrová, to take the floor and deliver her interpelation. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u30	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, hello. I, as my colleague Láďa Shincl, am very troubled by the problem of unemployment. Let me start with a few statistics. As of 31. 8. 2014 registered Office of Labour of the Czech Republic, Regional Branch in Ostrava, together 83.586 unemployed persons. They were less than 755, in July of this year, and even after more than two years and by 268 year on year. Available job applicants aged 15 to 64 were 81.122, which was less than the previous month and compared to the same month of the previous year. 5520 people were newly registered in the Moravian-Silesian Region this August. Their number was lower by 1605 monthly as well as by 267 compared to August 2013. This number of newly registered persons was the second lowest in this month after August 2008 for the period of monitoring since 1995. By the end of this August, the number of registered job applicants in the Moravian-Silesian Region, from which I come, decreased by 755 to a total of 83.586. The share of unemployed persons also decreased by 0,1 %. The number of job vacancies reported has increased - well, I will move on. [[Attention on time.]] I believe that another positive figure is the fact that the Czech Republic is one of the countries with an above-average share of entrepreneurs, which is the result in the first place - so will I ask how the government will address unemployment in the context of the impact of the international situation on the Czech labour market? [[It's time warning again.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u31	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u32	I think that if we look at the risks that the government identifies in relation to the international situation, after all, yesterday there was also talk about it at tripartite negotiations, the draft budget as we are preparing it, that is, even the unemployment estimates are still based on the Czech economy's growth of about 2.5 percent next year, but in connection with the continuation of the crisis in Ukraine, the problems of exports to Ukraine and Russia, we are also recording some decline in exports to the region with our neighbours, such as Germany, and it cannot be excluded that the intervention may also be against the Czech Republic. Of course, we have tried in the framework of the debate that took place in the European Union on how new sanctions are to be imposed against Russia in order to protect the Czech economy to the maximum. I recently received a letter from a cluster of Czech engineering companies that appreciated the government's progress in this matter of sanctions negotiations. And I am glad that we managed to get Czech engineering exports out of the sanctions, as they were adopted in the last stage. And I believe that this will undoubtedly help many companies to try to keep Russian markets. If we lose Russian markets as a result of this crisis, as a result of the trade war, I think it will be very difficult for Czech companies to return to those markets, or to return to them as final suppliers, and not only subcontractors from other companies, such as Germany or France. That is why it is extremely important what will now take place in real terms in those relations between the European Union and Russia, and how we will quickly stabilise the situation in Ukraine. In the event that this fails, and the trade war continues, we have created a working group where the ministries are involved, there are also representatives of trade unions and companies, and we are analyzing the situation in the Czech Republic, the possible effects of sanctions on the economy, and we are trying to create tools for us to respond. One of those instruments that we are discussing very intensively right now is the so-called cursarbeit, which means a system where the state would contribute to an employer who, on the basis of legally defined conditions, will be in a phase of temporarily falling out of supply or temporarily losing position on the market, will lose its sales. This would have negative effects on employment. And instead of being forced to release an employee, for a limited period of time, such an employer would receive support for the preservation of these jobs. Of course, employees would receive a slightly lower wage, the state would pay in some way. And now we're debating what percentage the state's contribution would be, but it would allow companies to contribute to maintaining employment. According to the calculations available to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, this would be more effective for the state than paying the unemployed at the employment offices than paying contributions to the health insurance system for them. So here it seems that the system could be economically advantageous, but we only want to introduce it in legal cases such as the effects of international sanctions or, for example, major natural disasters. That means cursarbeit shouldn't be something flat, time-limited, but it should be in those defined cases. And what I think is important is that there is a sufficiently strong control mechanism set up here, which means that the cursarbeit is not abused in any way. That means it must really be the real problems of the companies that those companies have gotten into uninhibited. This means that they have not caused them themselves, only they have to submit to international decisions, for example, or they are being counter-sanctioned. And that's the last thing I'd like to mention, because we still have a little bit of time. The risks at this time are not so much the sanctions that the European Union has so far approved against Russia, because we have largely reduced the negative impact on the Czech economy, but the risks are unknown anti-sanctions from the Russian side, because we are unable to influence them there, and we cannot predict at this time how the anti-sanction will affect the state of the Czech economy. So I'm still seeing a risk the government hasn't identified yet. But in any case, we are ready to help companies, especially when it comes to finding new outlets. And here I assume that the government will also take certain measures to strengthen our economic diplomacy and staff in those countries where we can obtain sales for our products on Monday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u33	Thank you. And the honourable Member will not ask an additional question? It won't. I would like to see Mr. Velebný's microphone now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister. Since my question, which I wanted to ask you today, has now been answered by my colleague Nytrová's previous response to the question, it would be pointless to ask that question. You answered briefly, clearly, and I think here convincingly. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u35	Thank you, and I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for a response. [[The Prime Minister didn't want to respond.]] Okay. We will therefore proceed to the next draw, and this is Mr Holeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u36	Prime Minister, I wonder how far the government is in deciding to provide financial support for the implementation of the Czech-German museum exhibition of Collegium Bohemicum in Ústí nad Labem. The creation of the exhibition is a condition for the sustainability of the reconstruction project of the Ústí Museum building, which was in the amount of 336 million. CZK supported by European Union funds. During our leadership of the town of Ústí nad Labem, Collegium Bohemicum was founded with the participation of the state, which was able to provide financial preparation of the exhibition in the range of 1500 m2 in a complete project and collection of necessary museum exhibits worth less than 4 mil. Crowns. The town of Ústí nad Labem under our leadership supported this company and received an internationally binding promise by the Czech Government to finance the construction of this exhibition. The new content of the reconstructed museum, especially the internationally attractive permanent exposition, is intended to profile the socially weak Ústí region in a national and cross-border context and attract tourists. Unfortunately, today's social democratic leadership for reasons of close party interests did not take the project for its own and its implementation and its further existence fully depended on the promise of state funding, which your government also signed up for. The implementation of a replacement solution in the form of a non-ambient and fast prepared Czech-German exposition in the city of Ústí nad Labem will endanger both the whole European subsidy invested in the reconstruction of the building and the reputation of the Czech Republic in neighbouring countries. I would therefore like to ask when we can expect a government decision to approve a state contribution to the implementation of the exposure to the originally prepared extent. I believe that this project, which, from the outset, has sought to obtain support across the Party's spectrum, deserves you to bring it to a successful end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u37	I thank the honourable Member for respecting the time limit and ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u38	Thank you. I do not know if this problem of the Collegium Bohemicum museum is given perhaps by the beginning of the whole project, i.e. how the project came about. It's a project involving several subjects. I would like to remind you that Collegium Bohemicum was founded in 2006. The founder was the town of Ústí nad Labem, the University of Jan Evangelista Purkyně and the Society for the History of Germans in Bohemia. The main founder is the statutory city of Ústí nad Labem. The project was entered in 2008 by the Ministry of Culture, which has been involved in the project since then and since 2011 also has a representative on the Board of Directors. I must say that the financing of these activities has been the subject of several government negotiations, and the latest state is that the Ministry of Culture is currently looking for a legitimate and legal instrument to free up for Collegium Bohemicum about 3 million this year. CZK is expected to provide approximately CZK 45 million in 2015 so far. CZK for the purpose of realization of museum exhibition to the history of German-speaking inhabitants of Czech countries. That's the view and the plan the Ministry of Culture has so far. I just want to remind you that I have received information that, unfortunately, Collegium Bohemic has violated the subsidy rules from the point of view of the grant granted by the Ministry of Culture. Also, the subsidy received by Collegium in the past from the programme Supporting the reproduction of assets of regional cultural establishments, i.e. Collegio has not always fulfilled all the conditions for the financing to be carried out in a smooth way. čili I want to confirm that the situation is complicated. I want to confirm that the Ministry of Culture is informed about it, and I want to finally confirm that the Ministry of Culture is trying to resolve the situation so that the appropriate implementation of the exhibition can be completed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u39	Thank you and I see that the Member wants to take advantage of his supplementary questions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u40	Not such an additional question, perhaps such an assessment. Just to keep it from just looking for why it can't be done. I'd really like to hear the word man: we'll send you the money because the region needs it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u41	I'll ask for the Prime Minister's response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u42	If only it were that simple. But I don't think we can say, and I can't say here we'll send you the money because the region needs it. The funds must actually be made available for a project that will be supported. It must be a decision in accordance with the law, with the applicable rules, i.e. The Ministry of Culture must act in such a way that funds are spent efficiently and effectively. We cannot just want to support the project and keep it alive, so that the Ministry of Culture will reduce the rules and criteria for granting grants and funds. If we want other beneficiaries to comply with the rules, they must also be respected by this generally beneficial company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u43	Thank you for your answer. And now, please, to the microphone next in line, Mr. Petr Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u44	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I am reading and hearing that the increase in minimum wage, i.e. instead of the originally agreed 500 to 700, was negotiated by the Social Democrats in the government coalition in exchange for supporting Euro Commissioner Věra Jourová, a candidate for the political party of the ANO movement. For example, President Sklenák on Czech Television said: Coalition councils are underway and demands have been raised both by YES and ČSSD, and we agreed both on the nomination of Věra Jourová and on the increase of minimum wage. But I also heard Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš, who says that - I quote: He does not make such hands. So I want to ask you, Prime Minister, also because of these contradictions about the details of this agreement, so that we don't have to conceive and that the public doesn't have to speculate. Because if that's true, it looks like you traded a lucrative post for one person for a measure that affects thousands of citizens, affects Czech companies, affects employers, affects the economy, and I think that was not a very reasonable agreement. The results of the agreement are not good either, because we have obtained a very insignificant portfolio for our Commissioner. But apparently there was also a breach of the trust of the government's social partners by violating the original agreement. That is not my opinion, but the Confederation of Industry and Transport was so upset by this step that its President Jaroslav Hanák said - and I quote again - that this is a clear violation of the agreement of the social partners. I mean, Prime Minister, please explain the deal. And was this nasty agreement actually concluded inside the government?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u45	I beg the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u46	Thank you. I don't know if we can criticize the program deal. The program agreement is part of politics, unlike an agreement that may involve some positions, functions, power positions. After all, the program agreement is the very essence of politics in a situation where you are in the coalition government. If social democracy did not have coalition partners, of course it could make the decision itself, but we are in the government where we have a coalition partner, the movement is YES, we have a coalition partner KDU-ČSL and we always have to talk about the program things. It's always a question of compromise. We have had a coalition agreement and we have a coalition agreement where it is said that we will increase the minimum wage in a reasonable manner each year. But there is no specific amount in the coalition agreement as to how much the minimum wage should increase. As regards the increase in minimum wage from 1 January next year, the coalition first considered and in principle agreed that the minimum wage should be increased by CZK 500. In the subsequent negotiations within the coalition, we have achieved a shift, and I do not hide that social democracy in particular sought to move forward, i.e. that we agreed that we would increase the minimum wage not by CZK 500, but by CZK 700. The reason is mine. the fact that on 1 January next year the minimum wage increase will expire not only for a year but for a year and a half. [[15.20 hours]] So we believe that, given that the year and a half will expire when the minimum wage of 8,500 gross is paid here, it is appropriate that we raise the minimum wage not only by 500, but by 700 crowns. And I don't want to remind you that for many years, minimum wage hasn't increased here, and its purchasing power has fallen sharply and grossly, which means it's no longer fulfilling the motivational role it should play. Then we also reached a compromise on another issue, and that is an increase in salaries for social services employees. I don't think it's a dirty deal either, but it's an appreciation of the work of those who work in social services, taking care of our parents and grandparents. These people have highly below-average salaries when I take it from the average salary point of view in the Czech Republic, and they do a job that is really very demanding. I am glad that we have also managed to agree with coalition partners to compromise and increase the salaries of employees in social services, it is prepared for this in the state budget 750 million. Crowns. I do not want to touch your conscience or touch your conscience with President Fial, but many of us visited a number of social facilities, retirement homes, various facilities for disabled citizens before the last election, of course. We talked to their employees there, and I'm sure we've all heard about the salary conditions they work there. And I firmly believe that the House will support the government's proposal to increase their remuneration for these people. And since there must always be a compromise and a balanced compromise, part of the agreement was the fact that we, as a coalition partner, supported the nomination of the ANO movement as the European Commissioner and withdrew the nomination of Pavel Mertlík, whom we considered to be as good and capable a candidate as Mrs Jourová. We did this in time, we were in the first half of the countries that nominated their candidate for the Euro Commissioner, so there was no delay. I would like to remind you that some states nominated their candidate up to two or three days before Juncker decided on the composition of the Commission. And I also want to clearly reject Mrs Jourová's acquisition of an insignificant portfolio. This portfolio was held in the past by representatives of Italy, representatives of France, these are countries which are significantly larger than the Czech Republic, and traditionally have a significantly greater influence in the European Union than the Czech Republic. This is justice I'm talking about. And then there's the consumer protection portfolio, and that's certainly not an invisible or insignificant portfolio, on the contrary, it's a very interesting platform for the Czech Commissioner. Among other things, Mrs Jourová will be involved in negotiating trade agreements with the United States and will be responsible for protecting the rights of European consumers. So, yes, there's been a coalition compromise. He had several aspects, and I consider it important that the programming aspect is in line with what the government has agreed. It's consistent with her policy. And as far as employers and unions are concerned. The trade unions supported the increase in minimum wages, employers disagreed, but it did not interfere with social dialogue. And I want to remind you that yesterday at the tripartite meeting, both the unions and employers supported the draft state budget bill for next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u47	Thank you. I see that the Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u48	Thank you, Prime Minister. I asked because there were some contradictions in the terms of the coalition members, so I'm glad you confirmed that the agreement had taken place. I wouldn't compliment her so much. First of all, the results are not very good from my point of view, but, of course, I don't consider a reasonable or completely good agreement, where programming priorities are exchanged for some personnel posts. I don't think that portfolio is significant either. And what you're saying here isn't complete. Because in the past, the portfolio was more significant by being associated with the Vice-President of the European Commission, which is not the case in this case. But I have another supplementary question. Unfortunately, what you obtained with this agreement has quite a serious impact on our entrepreneurs: it increases their costs. Has the government calculated, does the government have any analysis of how much will our entrepreneur increase minimum wage cost?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u49	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u50	People who receive minimum wage in the Czech Republic are over 100,000. With regard to the state administration as such, which is paid from the state budget, it is about 500 employees. So the amount isn't dramatic at all. However, the problem is how do you want to explain to these people that they will make the most of the 8,500 crowns of gross. And how do you explain to them that they have less money than their neighbors who may not work and are unfortunately dependent on social benefits? How are you going to explain that to them? I think it is absolutely immoral, that it held a minimum wage of 8,500 or even 8,000 crowns gross for several years. That's a big mistake. I would like to remind you that, in addition to the fact that the minimum wage has a social protection function, this means that it is intended to protect workers from poverty and to enable them to live at the level of modest consumption and social contacts, so employers have the minimum wage protection function to ensure a basic level playing field for wage competition. Because in a situation where there are cases where honest firms pay wages that correspond to the work done, and then there are companies that benefit from the stagnating level of minimum wage and stick to minimum wage level, so it's just social dumping and it's unfair competition. I think that these practices also need to be limited, just as there is a need to limit practices where, especially in the service, those employees formally receive minimum wage, but then someone pays them money that is not taxed and from which contributions to social and health insurance are not paid. So I believe that the problem, as we discussed it in tripartite, will not have negative effects, the increase in minimum wage at this level will not have negative effects on employment in the Czech Republic, and I think it corresponds to the level of average wage in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u51	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and now, please, to Mr Kořenko's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u52	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, Prime Minister. One of the main topics is the field of public procurement. As we know, this is a problem that has been going on for several years, especially in the case of the preparation of a new programming period. We know that mayors are struggling with this problem, and it is often a kind of hammer for our mayors. I have to say, the honest ones are paying for it, and the dishonest ones are sure to find their way. However, the problem is always both in the efficiency of the award and in transparency. The government is preparing an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, and I would like to ask what stage this matter is at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u53	Thank you, and I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u54	Thank you. Dear Member, the government's legislative activity is essentially divided into two actions. The first is the presentation of the so-called technical amendments to the Public Procurement Act. Here my government has, as it were, fulfilled, because the amendment was approved by the Government, it was sent to the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that the amendment, although not extensive, brings some very practical improvements, which should speed up and simplify the public procurement system. I want to give one particular example that is part of this amendment. By adopting the amendment, if approved by Parliament, there will be a cancellation of the obligation to cancel the procurement procedure in a situation where the contracting authority has received only one tender, thereby making the procurement process which is particularly accelerated will be more effective and thus avoid unnecessary delays and also unnecessary calculations that if only one tenderer remains, the contracting authority has no choice but to cancel the selection procedure. So let's say it's the brief, factual amendment to the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, however, the Ministry of Regional Development is preparing a new law on public procurement, with the fact that at the moment the substantive intention of this law has been presented. And only very briefly to the content of the material intention. [[15.30 hours]] The aim is to make use of the opportunity given by the relevant European Union directive to maintain a transparent level of public procurement, but at the same time to reduce administrative costs and to speed up public procurement. I think we also have an important debate here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate using the experience of people from practice, from regional and local councils. I think that we should really ensure that the key principles of transparency are maintained, so that objective legitimate competition for public contracts is allowed in order to achieve maximum efficiency on the part of the contracting authority. At the same time, however, we should achieve that public contracts do not become the subject of an attack on entities seeking market advantage only by entering into the contract and then speculating in terms of their withdrawal, then speculating in terms of filing complaints against the Office for the Protection of Competition, then speculating in terms of negotiating with other parties in this procurement procedure. There's just a whole series of negative phenomena that accompany the current form of the Public Procurement Act. And I would very much like to see the adoption of a new, modern law on public procurement that will comply with the relevant European directive in the course of the next year. So only very briefly about the government's intention. And I am very looking forward to discussing the technical amendment to the Public Procurement Act here in the Chamber of Deputies. I would very much like it to start to apply as soon as possible after the New Year, and I think it could also speed up public procurement in our country and maybe speed up the European Union's withdrawal of funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u55	Thank you. And I'm asking the MP... He doesn't want to ask a follow-up question. Therefore, I ask the next in line and it is Mrs Chalánková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u56	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, I am responding to your information on the issue of Czech children in Norway. I consider the text prepared by the authorities to be a manifesto of alibis officials trying to defend their inaction and convenience. I'm going to submit a few more written and very specific interviews to your government members. I have just a few brief questions for you at the moment. One. Any mention of the nationality of children is completely suppressed in the document. Therefore I ask you: Are both children still nationals of the Czech Republic? And also: Do the Czech authorities have any knowledge that children are Norwegian nationals? Please answer yes or no. Two. Why do you keep stressing that both children have grown up in Norway? Do they stop being citizens of the Czech Republic to you, or do they become citizens of the second or third category? Is citizenship of people living abroad less important to you than citizenship of people living in the country? Three. The following provisions of Section 56 para. are also part of the Act on Private International Law in force. 1 - I quote: "If the competence in matters relating to maintenance obligations and matters relating to parental responsibility is not regulated by the directly applicable regulations of the European Union, in matters of nutrition, education and other matters of care for minors, including measures for the protection of their person and property, the jurisdiction of the Czech courts if the minor is normally resident in the Czech Republic or if he is a citizen of the Czech Republic, even if he is habitually resident abroad." Why is this absolutely essential provision completely ignoring your information? Do civil servants of foreign and justice even know him? Does he have any idea that such a law exists? And last, fourth. You correctly state that there is no international treaty. Will your government negotiate a treaty to resolve a conflict of jurisdiction between the Czech Republic and Norway? [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u57	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u58	Thank you. Madam, the problem is indeed very complex. I want to remind you that at the beginning there was a decision that was based on suspicion of family violence and sexual abuse of both boys. This was a suspicion that was at the beginning of the whole complex process in Norway. This occurred in 2011, when the brothers were taken away from their parents. In 2011. I, honourable Member, have come to the impression from your speech that this matter was undoubtedly caused by the current Czech Government, and if it was not caused by it, it has, by its negligence, prevented the problem from being resolved satisfactorily. Satisfying especially for both children. That's what I think is most important. To find a solution that will allow these children to grow up in some normal peaceful family environment. What they are experiencing now is undoubtedly a nightmare, and we certainly all have a common interest in growing up in a normal family environment, as far as possible, despite what has affected their family. That's not an easy thing to do. And I don't think we should be making it a subject of a political struggle. We should try to force all competent authorities to act, so that officials in the Czech Republic who are in charge of these matters do not make excuses for working. Our government is the first government to submit a written report to the Chamber of Deputies on this matter. Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek is the first foreign minister to discuss this complex case with his Norwegian counterpart. President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček is also very involved in this at the level of parliamentary diplomacy. Our representative office is specifically holding and can be demonstrated by its activities, which have been carried out over the past few months. This is what this report describes. I certainly do not agree that the new government of the Czech Republic, which started at the end of January of this year, i.e. in a situation where all major decisions have already been made in Norway, it has borne some part of the blame on the unhappy situation of this hard-tested family. Nothing like that is true. On the contrary, the new Czech government is trying to move all the competent institutions on our side and we are ready to provide the mother of these two children with the maximum possible support, whether it is her attempt to revise the decision of the court in Norway, or whether it is another hearing of her action before the European Court of Human Rights. Just these are two real directions where, in the case of legal activities, a positive decision can be made that could help this family. I must say that, unfortunately, despite the activities of both our ministries and our representative office in Oslo, the Norwegian Party has not reviewed any of the decisions that have been taken, especially as regards the fact that children are placed in two different families. The only thing that's changed for the better is permission to interact with your mother. And it is also a question, I hope, that this will be well solved, teaching Czech for these children. You asked me if I knew if these children had lost their Czech citizenship. I have no information that these children are not Czech citizens. I have no such information at this time. However, we can undoubtedly still verify exactly how the legal situation concerning their citizenship in Norway is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u59	Thank you. The honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u60	Well, just one piece of information to start what the Prime Minister told us. I would like to point out that in January 2013, the mother was relieved of all charges against her. That's one thing. I have asked four questions, I have received only one answer - that the Prime Minister has no knowledge that children are no longer nationals of the Czech Republic. I've asked four questions, they're at your disposal, so I'm going to go back to this problem. And I submit that I will prepare and submit a few more written and very specific interviews to your government members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u61	Thank you, and the Prime Minister is already going with the reaction to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u62	Thank you. Madam, I welcome your activity. I've already welcomed her to the previous interpellations. I have also submitted a written report to the House, which describes the activities of the state authorities in the last seven months, based on your previous interventions and the intercessions of other colleagues from the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, I don't have any information on the activities that preceded it. [[15.40 hours]] I think it is right that we should put maximum pressure on it, and let us please develop it together on the state bureaucracy, on the state authorities. The pressure's in order. It's quite all right. I just think that we could do this cooperatively, that we should work together on this, and I don't think that it's absolutely necessary for us to ask each other all the questions and answer all the questions here through an intercession. The report has been processed. I think it also provides support for opponents, if there are any false data, so that you contact the competent authorities immediately so that you can criticize them. Of course, until the report was on the table, it was very difficult for us to justify the procedure of the state authorities. I said that my mother was liberated a few days ago at the beginning of a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It is the contents of this written report and I can confirm it. I just want to say that the problem on the Norwegian side was seen as very complicated and complex at the beginning of this whole process. And unfortunately the current situation for the family is still not good despite all the efforts of the Czech authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u63	Thank you, Prime Minister. The next in line is Mr. Jiří Petrů. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, you have already responded to my intervention, which concerned the operation of the Ministry of Regional Development following the departure of the current Minister for the post of European Commissioner, in response to the first interview. However, I would like to point out that the Minister's departure comes at a time when the appropriations for the programming period 2007 to 2013 are not completed when of the total allocation of 698 billion. Only 55 percent of funds have been certified by the European Commission so far. In the last quarterly monitoring report on the drawdown process for the programming period 2007 to 2013, it is also stated that the limit for drawing funds from each operational programme, the Community contribution, has been met by a single operational programme in 2014. By the way, it's a traffic operating program. At the same time, on 26 August of this year, the European Commission officially approved the Partnership Agreement for the 2014 to 2020 programming period and must follow accelerated steps that will enable funds to be drawn from this period as well. Providing this agenda requires a high priority for your government so that the situation from the previous period does not recur and the drawdown of funds from EU funds has been successful. As we have noted, an experienced Deputy Minister for the National Coordination Authority is also scheduled to leave with the Minister. I will not ask you a question now, but I would ask you that your government pay serious attention to the accelerated stabilisation of the local development department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u65	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u66	Thank you. Dear Member, I think I can follow up on the response to the first interpellation that has been made here today, which concerns a similar problem that you mentioned. It will not only be important who will be the new Minister for Regional Development, and I really strongly prefer an expert on European funds, on the issue of drawing funds from the European Union, but it will also depend on his team. That means people he's either gonna take to the Ministry with him or he's gonna be ready to continue working with them at the Ministry. I do not think that now, in the most sensitive position and position in which we can find ourselves in terms of drawing European funds, we can afford some large-scale personnel earthquake at the Ministry of Regional Development. I think we need the new Minister and his Deputys to be the people who will be competent in this matter from the very beginning. You are also right in that, if there is a delay at the beginning of the process, and now I am talking about the current financial perspective, about the new operational programmes, if we take on a significant delay at the very beginning of the process, it will come back to the next government, which will be here at the moment when the European Union funds are being drawn up. I would not like our followers, the government that will come after this government of the Czech Republic, to curse us sometime in 2020 with the Czech Republic losing billions or tens of billions of crowns of European Union funds again. Last year we lost 10 billion, it's influenced by what happened two years ago. This year there's a risk, it's about 24 billion. Crowns. Again, this has to do with what happened two years ago, sometime around 2012, when the situation could still be saved. We can't change the past. We try and take steps to lose as little money as possible, but we can't change the past, we can't change what happened or didn't happen in 2012 or 2011. However, we have full responsibility for what will take place in 2015, and we have full responsibility for what will take place in the autumn of this year. This means the approval of individual operational programmes, the preparation of challenges, the launch of calls in the spring of next year, so that we do not lose 2015. And that must be the role of the new Minister for Regional Development. I hope that this minister will be proposed by the coalition partner as soon as possible, even before Mrs Jourová resigns her duties. Perhaps even on the question of preparing for drawing funds from the European Union. We are trying to create a maximum uniform methodological environment. We're trying to keep the rules from changing during the game. Unfortunately, this was one of the very negative factors that haunts us until now - the disunity methodology, the different approaches of the Ministry of Finance, the Office for the Protection of Competition, those who provided the funds. There's a big problem. And, of course, a number of municipalities, a number of bodies that have benefited from European subsidies, are meeting today with the fact that audits carried out by the Ministry of Finance are quite different from previous audit conclusions, and are coming to a stage where corrections must be made, and that, of course, is not a pleasant situation for any of those who have drawn European funds. After ten years of membership of the European Union, we have been in a paradoxical situation that a number of municipalities or entrepreneurs, for example, are wondering whether to even ask for European funds, so that by making even a minor formal error in terms of drawing them up, they do not get into economic problems or into some kind of existential disaster. It's just that this is a very often and very intense consideration. Here I am a little concerned about drawing on the new European funds if we fail to convince municipalities and entrepreneurs that the situation has changed and that there will be no change in the rules during the game and that the interpretation of the methodology would negatively affect those who drew European funds. I'm not saying that there were no mistakes, that some money was not used inefficiently. These are cases that the state must, of course, guard, must punish them. But I would very much hate for those who have only made formal mistakes to be punished by having corrections in the order of tens of percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u67	Thank you. The Member does not wish to ask an additional question. The next in line is therefore Mr Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u68	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, although economists speak of a slight revival of the Czech and European economy, I believe that unemployment is a major problem, not just in our country. The Czech Statistical Office lists the unemployment rate in our country of 7.4 percent, which is not a small number, especially in view of the situation of unemployed families. In the Zlín Region, where I come from, unemployment is 7.1 %, while there is potential, for example in the Holešov industrial zone, to increase employment. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister, what concrete steps the government is taking to secure new jobs. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u69	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u70	Thank you. Dear Member, I think what we will have to deal with in the coming months and years is the fact that unemployment will not automatically fall to the pre-crisis level. The unemployment that was here before the financial crisis took place will not automatically return to the Czech Republic. It will take quite a lot of effort for us to at least reduce unemployment in the most socially critical areas. [[15.50 hours]] I have already mentioned some activities here today, and I will not repeat them here, which government wants to implement and which they are implementing. I mentioned an active approach to new investments, including the use of investment incentives. I mentioned the amendment to the Land Exemption Act from the Agricultural Soil Fund, where we will reduce the fees for companies that will invest in existing industrial zones. I mentioned speeding up the drawing of funds from the EU. This also has to do with jobs, if we have money, if we build. I want to remind you that in the construction sector alone over the last five years, around 60,000 people have lost their jobs, and we have prepared projects from European resources, for example, to complete the capacity of kindergartens and primary schools or to build social housing. These are areas that could be very interesting in terms of construction development. I've already mentioned export support here. Specific decisions that will strengthen our diplomatic representation in territories that are interesting to us either from the point of view of trade or from the point of view of tourism. A very successful Czech-Chinese business forum took place here in Prague recently. There were over 500 Chinese entrepreneurs, but also representatives of the Chinese regions. We are talking about direct airline between Shanghai and the Czech Republic. If it can be established, I expect it to have similar positive effects as it had to establish a direct airline between Seoul and the Czech Republic not only in terms of a larger influx of Chinese tourists into the Czech Republic, but also in terms of strengthening business contacts between our countries. Of course, in the area of economic diplomacy, we are also ready to monitor other territories. I am thinking, for example, of India, for example, of Latin America. Everywhere there we should develop activities to support our exports. I think the government can do a lot here. And then, of course, what is very important is the promotion of education, support of applied research, but also science and research in the Czech Republic and the promotion of cooperation between companies, research institutions and public universities. Because it is not just about employment today, but it is also about employment in the future, it means that we create jobs that are really qualified to have high value added production, to have research, development, to run innovative processes in the Czech Republic. So it is definitely not just about getting jobs in the engineering industry or in the automotive industry, but we also want to pursue more sophisticated activities and use new, modern technologies and try to attract new modern technologies here to the Czech Republic. When I mentioned activities in favour of employment, of course it has to do with accelerating the state's investment, with increasing its efficiency, it has to do with the construction of transport infrastructure, and that is a big problem, because many buildings are stopped by people refusing to sell land at low prices. I am pleased and want to thank the Chamber of Deputies for approving a law that increases the purchase prices under communication. This will allow us to continue in a number of constructions. And I believe that we will first have to bring to a number of regions a better transport infrastructure, a better road than we can get new investors to create jobs there. So much so, very briefly, to the basic axes of the government's activity that we are counting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u71	Thank you - without further questions. Next in line, Mr. Zahradník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u72	Dear Prime Minister, I appeal to you as Prime Minister, who is responsible for his ministers, including the Minister of Transport, Mr Prachař, who is not here today. My question points to the issue of the D3 motorway, namely the section Úsilné-Hodějovice, which is actually the bypass of the town of České Budějovice. This problem has been dragging on for many years. Since the signature of the memorandum of municipalities concerned by the construction in 2007, the number of conventions and off-level crossroads in the negotiations and the extent of the deepening of the route, which is clearly given and has a territorial decision, have practically not progressed. On 20 August this year, the Council of České Budějovice adopted a resolution which was sent to Minister Prachař, in which it expressed great concern about the activities aimed either at humiliating the motorway on a lower-class road or at changing the route - in this case, of course, if the route were to change, it would be a delay of the construction by decades - and asked the Minister for a clear position, which unfortunately has not yet been answered. The Ministry of Transport should decide in a short time and specify in the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure specified investment requirements and possible modifications of the construction against the requirements contained in the memorandum of municipalities, respectively. in a dispute with a final territorial decision, they should be discussed with the municipalities concerned and duly justified. Dear Prime Minister, my question is: When and how will the Ministry of Transport decide to implement the D3 motorway as a bypass of the city of České Budějovice?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u73	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u74	Thank you. Dear Member, I was confronted with similar questions that you have just asked here during my visit to the Earth Fair of the provider in České Budějovice, where I had the opportunity to speak briefly with representatives of the region and representatives of the city of České Budějovice. I asked the Minister of Transport for information and now I would like to quote from the information I received from the Ministry of Transport on this matter. First of all, your question. The Ministry of Transport on the bypass of České Budějovice does not consider changing the design motorway category. That means that's one answer to your question. Secondly, I can confirm that the construction of the motorway bypass of České Budějovice is a key construction not only from the point of view of České Budějovice and the South Bohemian Region, but also from the perspective of the government of the Czech Republic. The continuation of the construction of the D3 motorway over its entire length is a key priority for both the government and the Ministry of Transport and these two buildings that you are talking about, i.e. I personally consider the forceful-Hodějovice section, Hodějovice-Třebonín to be priorities in terms of construction of the motorway network in our country, because they follow two sections, which are already ready for construction, which means that there could be a significant acceleration of the total construction of the D3 motorway in the direction of the Austrian border. At the same time, however, it is the duty of the Ministry of Transport to implement the constructions as efficiently as possible and before carrying out the irreversible steps leading to their implementation, it is always necessary to assess whether there is a more effective solution than the one proposed. For this reason, the Ministry of Transport is now intensively negotiating with representatives of the city of České Budějovice about the possibilities of adapting the technical solutions of the two mentioned buildings, which would lead to an increase in their economic efficiency, which means reducing the costs of the construction of the České Budějovice bypass. I stress that negotiations should be conducted only on such adjustments which would not have a significant negative effect on the date of the start of the implementation of these buildings. So much quote from the information I got from the Department of Transport. My opinion is that the Ministry of Transport should proceed in such a way as to ensure the maximum possible level of effectiveness of this project. If there is a chance to reduce the costs of the construction of the České Budějovice bypass, this possibility should be verified. If there are specific technical proposals that concern e.g. questions of shortening the covered section of the bypass, which could bring significant savings for the state budget, then I think that this matter should be discussed with the Czech Budějovices, with the South Bohemian Region, but at the same time I consider it important that such changes do not occur in the construction that would require a new approval process for several years. That's what I'd be very worried about. So we must now find a reasonable solution, and that is the task of the Ministry of Transport - to check the possibility of cheaper construction and not to prevent it from being possible to start building these two sections of the D3 motorway in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u75	Thank you and I ask the Member to ask his additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u76	Prime Minister, thank you for this answer. I would add that citizens of the city of Budějovice and residential Budejovice agglomerations are entitled and right to do so, I think, in comparison with other regions, so that the route is guided so that the territory is not too disturbed and contaminated. And once again, I would like to point out that with great emphasis, the government will monitor any shift in the route, any change in the route will actually trigger a new discussion and postpone at least ten years of construction of this highway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u77	Thank you, and I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u78	Dear Member, I do not, of the nature of the matter, participate directly in the technical negotiations, so I cannot speak here for the Minister of Transport or for the staff of the Road and Motorway Directorate who are in charge of this project. However, there is now a process where the Ministry of Transport is trying to verify whether it is possible without causing a dramatic delay in this construction, to reduce the cost of its implementation. I understand that there are certain parameters relating to the environmental impact, the legitimate requirements of the inhabitants of České Budějovice associated mainly with the negative impact of the bypass on their lives, that certain technical solutions have been chosen in the past, which have been agreed. Now the effort by the state is to reduce the costs of implementing this event, but so as not to change the route, and so as not to cause any significant delay in its construction. I was assured by the Minister of Transport that this was not a change in the route in terms of the implementation of the České Budějovice bypass, that these were the other technical measures that were linked to how precisely the communication would be conducted there. But it shouldn't be about changing the route. I agree with you that if it were to change the route, this would mean processes that will take many years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u79	I thank you, and given the 16th hour that has passed, we will move on to oral interviews on present and absent members of the government. But before we do, I have here an application with priority rights that I have to comply with - it is Mr Stanjura's priority right. All I'm asking is for briefness, so we don't rip our colleagues off the possibility of interpelling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u80	Thank you. I do not want to take up particularly opposition time, so really very briefly. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for participating in the interview, and I would also like to thank the ministers who are participating. Tomorrow it'll be exactly three months from the last day of the interview. We have not had interpelations for three months and very often, and perhaps even rightly, we are sometimes criticized by government MPs for not delaying and asking questions about interpellings. For our club - we submitted 17 interviews, in twelve cases the minister is not present, i.e. more than 70 per cent. Out of a total of 54 interpelations today, more than 55 percent will be unanswered. So I'm pulling interpelation number 5, 6, 10, 12, 20, 22, 27, 29, 35, 36, 39 and 49 for our club. It's a total of 12 downloaded interpellations. There's no point in wasting our time, so I hope my 90 seconds I've spoken will replace the twelve. And I would ask the Prime Minister, whom I really thank, that he was on both written and oral, to consider the presence of ministers with the weight of his authority. We understand that sometimes some must be, for example, when they have a foreign trip, that is a perfectly understandable reason. All I'm saying is that there are 13 oral interventions from five factions on the Minister of Transport, I don't know if he's gonna be here tonight, but we're gonna be discussing his laws for the 18th, 19th and 20th hours. He himself is not present here for 13 oral interventions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u81	Good afternoon. Thank you to President Stanjur. We're going to discuss oral interpelations according to the winning order. First of all, Mr. Svatopluk Němeček, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, will be intersecting Minister Svatopluk Němeček, regarding the accounting and legal services contract at the Hospital Na Homolce. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u82	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister, honourable Members of the Government are present. After your predecessors you inherited a relatively sophisticated tunnelling system at the Hospital Na Homolce, in its subsidiaries and in outsourcing services. During the meeting at the Audit Committee, you said that you could not imagine the functioning of a hospital or the size of a hospital such as the Hospital Na Homolce, which would not have its own accounting department. This has been the case for many years at Na Homolce Hospital, at least since 2009. In 2009, Bialešová s. r. o. won a tender for outsourcing accounting services. It was for four and a half years, and when I asked how it was possible, I was told by your predecessors, both Minister Heger and Mrs Jurásková, that this was a pilot project of the Ministry of Health in directly managed organizations. This pilot project has never been evaluated, only it has been announced that this outsourcing system saves at least 30 million crowns a year. However, the contract is over and I ask if it is not a pilot project, how is it possible that the hospital, under the direction of Director Šetlík, continues to provide accounting services without a tender to Bialešová s. r. o. and on what basis if the contract has not been issued. Is it true that Bialešová s. r. o. pays the hospital CZK 2.8 million a month at estimated costs of approximately CZK 800? How much is the hospital's cost of accounting for one item? And is it true that Mrs Emílie Bialešová, as a foreign person, is still an executive at the bodies of the subsidiary Na Homolce Hospital, namely Holte s. r. o.? If it is true that the Hospital Na Homolce refused to hand over to Minister Holcát and to you all accounting documents of subsidiaries, and if it is true that you ordered the liquidation of subsidiaries to the current director Šetlík, why did you not order him at the same time to convene extraordinary general meetings of these companies and to exchange members of statutory bodies? At the same time, Minister, if it is true that the Hospital Na Homolce has issued a tender for legal services for CZK 60 million for four years. Has this public contract already been competitive for legal services comparable to the costs of other hospitals set up by the Ministry? [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u83	I thank Mr Hovorka and please the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u84	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, as regards the questions raised here by Mr Hovorka, it is evident that I really am not able to answer these details in this way from my head right now. We will answer all questions carefully in the form of a written answer. I would just like this to be said that I think this issue will be dealt with in a systematic manner, by the fact that by the end of this month a selection procedure should be concluded for the director at Na Homolce Hospital, and then I assume that all these matters will be dealt with by the new director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u85	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. He obviously does, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u86	Thank you. Dear Minister, thank you for wanting to deal with the matter systemically. Nevertheless, I think that the accounting, accounting and outsourcing issue without the selection procedure should be dealt with without delay, even by the current management, the current director. If the said public contract for those legal services for 60 million for four years has not been competitive, then I will ask another additional question. Based on what and for how much legal services do the Hospital at Homolce deliver to Holte Medical and Holte s. r. o. law firms operating there today? It is specifically based on my information: Bláha and Němec, Jansta and Kostka, Dáňa a Pergl and doktor Žďárek. I would also like to ask how much the annual bonuses for the medicines delivered, medical devices and consumables supplied through subsidiaries and KTH Medical to Na Homolce Hospital and how these bonuses are recorded in the accounts of the Hospital Na Homolce and the subsidiaries. [[16.10 hours]] I believe that you want to advocate an immediate break in economic ties and prevent violations of obligations in the management of foreign property, but I also believe that the things that I mentioned need to be dealt with without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u87	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister, I ask for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, at this point and at this point, I must answer very much as I did in the first part. I really don't have these things in my head right now. But we will examine all Mr Hovorka's suggestions very carefully and carefully, and we will send him all the information we find out about the questions that have been raised in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u89	I thank the Minister for his refined answer. Mr. Josef Zahradníček, Mr. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec, will interpel the second interpellation in the case of drivers and drugs. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u90	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Minister, Colleagues, Colleagues, Good afternoon to all. My short interpelation today is on the subject of drivers, alcohol, addictive substances, especially drugs. It is unbelievable what some drivers can consume before driving and maybe even while driving. Not only am I concerned about this situation, which has been appalling in recent months. It is no longer acceptable for honest drivers to take the wheel with the feeling that they no longer have to return in health to their families because of someone who does not have their basic human rules, which certainly include the rule of safe and timely return. That is why I am asking you, Minister, what measures are being taken and when more sanctions will be imposed against drivers who are thus violating the code and who are driving under the influence of these substances. I don't think I need to describe the situation any more, and I believe it's also known to you. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u91	I thank Mr Zahradníček. I'll ask Minister Milan Chovanec for his answer on the subject of drivers and drugs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u92	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would like to assure you that the situation in the use of addictive substances, whether alcohol or drugs, does not leave us cold or calm when driving a motor vehicle, because it has an increasing and negative trend in society. When you look at police statistics, the increase in drivers who have been drugged before driving increases in dozens of percent in year-on-year comparison, and it's a much bigger increase than it is in alcohol. There are several reasons. The main reason is very simple availability of drugs in the Czech Republic. It is a question and the Ministry of the Interior in this matter at present - it is a question primarily of repression. We are very carefully preparing for this repression, because there is nothing else at this time. In addition, of course, we do not underestimate prevention, discussion in schools, teaching programs and other things related to this. We bought a set of detection devices from the Police Presidium Reserve for police officers to detect drugs in the driver's body during checks. These are one-off tests, and they are other tests that can be used repeatedly. We equip police officers with stop belts, for example, because if a driver like that gets on the road, it's difficult to stop him. Either we have to shoot at him, like you read in the media recently, at a driver who ran down the road 200 kilometers an hour, and the police weren't equipped with pawn belts, and then these drivers threatened people who drove normally and normally in traffic. So the police are getting detection, they're getting stop belts. Another measure that is being prepared is a criminal record. The ideal we're heading to is for every cop to have a laptop in his car, in which he'll find out very simply who owns the car he's prosecuting or suspected of committing an infraction, and in addition to that, he'll learn from the criminal record who he's dealing with. If there was a patrol like that in which the cop, who was killed by the drug driver, maybe tragedy could be avoided, because they would probably be more cautious if they knew who they were dealing with on the road ahead. In addition, together with Minister Válková, we created a working group about two months ago, which also examines the subject. So, in addition to recodification of the criminal code, we also assess the subject of drugs and their influence on driving vehicles. On this subject will be 30. The 9th seminar, which should evaluate the two-month work of experts on the sides of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, which should primarily assess whether some legislative adjustments are needed. For example, we are discussing whether it is good for us to confiscate cars to these drivers who repeatedly drive a motor vehicle under the influence of an addictive substance. I say yes for myself. The traffic police have the same opinion. We've been overreacting a little bit with the Attorney General in the media, but I think it's more of a discommunication in this matter if I say it very cleverly. For example, in the Ústí Region, vehicles are confiscated from these drivers. The courts have different access to that thing. I just think that even under existing legislation, vehicles can be confiscated. It doesn't solve this thing, but a person who's been driving under the influence of addictive substances for several times and has a car key in his pocket, and the vehicle is standing in front of the house, so of course the temptation is great, and these people don't really care anymore. That means, even taking cars is one of the measures that could help us avoid these people on the roads. There are limits to it. There will be some legal problems, but we must certainly try. So on that question of repression one more time. We equip police officers with detectives, equip them with stop belts and nets. For five million pawns were purchased, which in the next few days will arrive at emergency units. And on the subject of amendments to legislation 30. 9. there will be a seminar where we will inform the public of the agreement between prosecutors, police officers and the Ministry of Justice and the Interior on further progress. I will inform you on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u93	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Zahradníček if he has an additional question. So the Minister has sufficiently discouraged me from drugs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u94	Thank you for your answer. I have one more such subject - whether he is considering taking driving licences on the spot. Otherwise, I'd like to keep my fingers crossed by the police and wish for a quick solution to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u95	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Marta Semelová will have a third interview with the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman on the National Cultural Monument of Hradiště Šárka. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u96	Dear Minister, I was approached by a citizen from Prague 6 with a call to deal with the disputed sale of land around the water tanks Džbán and Hostivař. The land was in the management of the disrupted state enterprise Prague sewerage and watercourses, the founder of which was the National Committee of the Capital City of Prague and the legal successor of the capital city Prague. As a founder, this determines the liquidation process through a delegated executor. The liquidation process is imposed by a law that prescribes an auction if the Ministry of Finance does not allow a free or direct transfer of bribery. That didn't happen. According to the current mayor's statement of 19 June 2014, the capital has been negotiating with the liquidator of the state enterprise Pražská kanalizace and watercourses, the state enterprise in liquidation, the contractual transfer of assets in the swimming pool Džbán since 2000. Upon request of the capital city of Prague, the Czech Ministry of Finance, headed by the current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, asked for consent to a contract transfer pursuant to Act No. 92/1991 Coll., as amended. However, this did not grant consent. As well as in the case of the land at the Hostivař swimming pool. In December 2012, the land entered the auction, was sold and is currently unstoppable. Why am I turning to you as Minister of Culture? In the locality there is a national cultural monument Hradiště Šárka, which is why the seller was obliged by law to offer the property primarily for sale to the Ministry of Culture. He said he didn't do that. Then there is the possibility within three years of transferring the property from the law to cancel. I therefore ask you, Minister, since this is a national cultural monument and the State has made a wrong decision not to allow the transfer of the territory of Prague's natural parks to the capital city of Prague, thereby endangering their basic cultural, recreational and landscape functions, whether you would consider taking advantage of the possibility of abolishing the transfer due to the violation of Section 13 of Act 20/1987 Coll., on State Monument Care - the right to the State to buy a cultural monument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u97	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is as you say. These are doubts about the manner in which the state enterprise Pražské kanalizace and watercourses in liquidation were liquidated in the public auction and the land of the swimming pool Džbán, on which is the mentioned national cultural monument Hradiště Šárka, where is therefore the early medieval fortress. The Ministry of Culture is currently not in charge. Only by letter dated 9 January of this year, which was addressed to the civil association Veleslavín, we said that the land, the specific plots here I will not quote, which are kept in the central list of cultural monuments as the national cultural monument of Hradiště Šárka, were not actually offered to the Ministry of Culture for purchase under the Act on State Monument Care by the former owner. According to the provisions of § 13 para. The owner of the cultural monument is obliged, in the case of the intended sale of the cultural monument, to offer it to the Ministry of Culture, as you said, as a cultural monument or as a national cultural monument. Since Hradiště Šárka is a national cultural monument, this above mentioned provision of the conservation law applies to it. In Article 13, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: If the owner of the cultural monument fails to fulfil the obligation referred to in paragraph 1, the legal act by which he transferred the ownership of the cultural monument to another person shall be void if that invalidity is called upon by the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture may exercise this right within three years of the date of implementation of the said legal act, which means that the time limit is still running. Here is the possibility - not the obligation - to nullify the transfer of ownership in the event that this bidding obligation has not been fulfilled. It would be possible to proceed to this step in particular in the situation that the Ministry of Culture would take advantage of the pre-emptive rights. Here is the question of using this area, the Džbán swimming pool land, for the Ministry of Culture resort. On the other hand, of course, if there is any serious reason that we should have this thing - although this is, let's say, non-standard, as you have indicated - to deal with this, let the relevant body certainly turn to us with an official submission and we will definitely deal with it, because the deadline has not expired, it is still running, time is and corresponds to the relevant section of the conservation law. Thank you for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u99	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. I'd like to ask the lady an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u100	I would like to thank the Minister for this offer. I'll keep looking into it. I think, of course, that the citizens who live there, the residents, are concerned that this national cultural monument could come to harm. First of all. And secondly, we know the various interests of all the developers in Prague, so they are also concerned about this natural location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u101	I thank the Member and the Minister. Before we continue to interpel, which will be the interpellation of Mr Václav Klučka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I will read the apologies. First of all, Minister Svatopluk Němeček apologizes from today's meeting from 16.30 pm due to the meeting of the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies - and I respectfully greet the Chairman of the Health Committee for his excellent idea. Furthermore, Dr Pavel Plzák apologizes from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 16 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Petr Bendl apologizes from today's meeting of the House for health reasons, Mr Karel Tureček apologizes from today's meeting from 18 o'clock and tomorrow all day for personal reasons and finally Mrs Pecková today between 15 and 22 o'clock for personal reasons. And now I am finally asking Mr Václav Klučka to interpel to Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on the conference in Paris on the Islamic State. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u102	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. The Islamic State, the interpellation is at least the way you have it in paper, a conference in Paris - the Islamic State. I'll tell you one memory. In 1993, when I first had the opportunity in the Chamber of Deputies to be present when the Czech Republic was founded, this year I was a member of the Defence and Security Committee and Mr Vladimír Šuman was chairman. At one meeting of this committee, we discussed security risks in the world. There were a lot of proposals, a lot of discussions. Finally, the chairman of this committee, Vladimír Šuman, took the floor and said, "Say what you want. Islamic fundamentalism is the world's greatest security risk. I'll admit we didn't really understand it at the time, nor did we really hear about it. I'll tell you that if this man listens to me because he's alive, I have to apologize to him and tell him how much truth he was right. The Islamic State, Islamic fundamentalism, is a topic that was discussed at the Paris conference at which Minister Zaorálek was present. I would like to ask him, in the briefness of the time he has, to tell us the essential things that have been discussed at this conference on such an important subject, and what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u103	I thank the Member and ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to refer to us as was the case in Paris with the Islamic State. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u104	Yes. I wish you a good afternoon. I'll give you the information. The conference actually took place on Monday, September 15th in Paris. It was convened on the invitation of President Hollande, the President of France, and the President of Iraq. Foreign ministers were invited to the conference. Attendance was quite strong. Probably worth mentioning, too, which countries participated in it. Foreign ministers from France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Holland, Denmark, Belgium, Turkey, Norway, Great Britain were present for Europe. The Czech Republic, represented by me, was there for Central Europe. Then John Kerry from the United States, Sergej Lavrov from Russia, ministers of foreign Canada, China and Japan attended the conference. Gulf states, Arab countries, were represented in addition to Iraq, which was the host of President Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Emirates, Lebanon, Jordan and Egypt. So the routine that was sitting around the table was really extremely strong. The composition was of course very interesting because there were countries of Islamic, Arab states, Gulf states and representatives of Europe, China, Japan, the United States, Canada. What did the conference in this configuration come to? Of course, the conference began by agreeing that we condemned the brutality of the so-called Islamic State. It has, frankly, also been criticised by the use of the term Islamic State, because Islamic countries reject the term designation for this state, and in the end the designation State has been rejected, because the question is whether the state is what originated in the north of Iraq. It used the Arabic term "go." [[written phonetically]] We're going to use the term Islamic State for clarity. But I say, the conference has condemned the brutality committed by the organization that is occupying and occupying the territory of northern Iraq. At the same time, there was a clear effort and determination to punish all those who were guilty of genocide crimes in that region for crimes against humanity. It has been said that everything needs to be done to ensure that these crimes do not really go unanswered. At the same time, in addition to condemning those crimes and genocide that are taking place in the north of Iraq, the conference and the composition of ministers expressed support for territorial integrity and the political process of establishing a new government in Iraq. [[16.30 hours]] That is, it was said that, in fact, the creation of a truly inclusive government representing most of Iraq's citizens and citizens is a prerequisite for solving the problem and has been supported by the new Prime Minister, Mr Hajdar al-Abádí, who was present at the conference, and has been expressed full support for the creation of a society in which the law will rule and which will be truly inclusive. At the conference, there was also talk about how Iraq can be helped at the moment. The debate was both humanitarian, because of course there is a very complex humanitarian situation, so there has also been talk about means and methods, ways of helping in this area, and at the same time there has been talk about how to help in the military field and how to directly support Iraq so as to comply with international law. The Conference has signed up for Resolution 2170 of the United Nations, i.e. Resolution of the United Nations Security Council, which talks about combating terrorism and its resources, including e.g. reduction of finance, etc. One of the conclusions of the conference was that it was necessary to cut off the Islamic State from financial resources and prevent further recruitment of foreign fighters, which unfortunately are thousands there, and it is also known that thousands of them unfortunately also come from European states, which, of course, is even more serious about the whole thing. There was talk of better border control precisely because there are thousands of foreign fighters from countries such as France, Britain and other European states, so those fighters arriving there have Schengen passports. Then, of course, they are also coming back, and unfortunately, it is likely that they will be coming back, and given that the Islamic State targets not only the very construction of occupied space in northern Iraq, but even its aim is to build the caliphate and, in fact, the European country itself. That makes it such a war for Europe. Therefore, it is probably also not possible to stay at home, because unfortunately, this concerns us immediately. In addition to the debate on what needs to be done, I also informed that the Czech Republic is already actively assisting in this fight against terrorism in Iraq. We've been talking about delivering 500 tons of ammunition to a Kurdish militia called "peshmerga." The Czech Republic will also provide various weapons and training to the Iraqi army, including the offer of L-159 aircraft. We also offer to the central government in Iraq the training of civil defence forces, the rescue system of the Iraqi Kurdistan region, and we also offer training of pilots of Iraqi army helicopters. [[Time, Minister.]] Yes, so maybe I'll fill in later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u105	Thank you. I ask Mr Klučka for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I want to thank the Minister, because it was really in a short time, because I think we're going to come back to the matter here in the Chamber of Deputies, and at the same time that he's dragged the time, so I'm not going to continue with the supplementary question, because I think it was the two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u107	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister, can he restock it? He doesn't want to. Thank you. By further intervention - if I understand it correctly, Mrs Fischerová withdraws her intervention, as the President of the House of Deputies suggested? Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u108	Vice-President, thank you for the floor, that's right. I am very sorry that the Minister of Transport Prachař not present because I really have had a question in my supply for him for a long time, so I will wait until he is here in person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u109	Thank you, ma'am. The same applies to Mr Petr Bendl, who is excused. We are coming to the seventh interview by Mr Ivo The minister Marcel Chládek, who is unfortunately also absent, will be intersected with regard to the salaries of school workers. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Even though the minister isn't here, I'd read my interpellation. It won't be that long, I'll cut it a little short. Minister, I know that you have already answered a similar question at some point in May, Mrs Putnová, on the salaries of teaching staff, but I would ask for some clarification. I consider increasing the salaries of teachers and other school workers not only to fulfill your pre-election promises, but also to be exceptionally good news for school workers. I would therefore like to know, first, what the increase in education salaries will look like in the coming years, both for pedagogical workers and for non-teaching workers. Secondly, whether you, Minister, will seek to change the structure of the salary table for teaching staff. I am referring to adding an additional grade to the current five to six, which is also the aim of the Czech Moravian Union of Education Workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u111	Thank you, honourable Member. Interpelation will be answered in writing. We're getting to the eighth interpellation. Mr Ladislav Šincl will intersect Minister Milan Chovanec on buying votes in Český Těšín. Even things like that happen. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u112	That's right. Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, as elections to municipal councils are approaching, I am addressing you on a serious issue that has emerged in the previous elections in several municipalities and also in Český Těšín. It's so-called. buying votes with voters in this community. It is a municipality in our Moravian-Silesian region, which I was elected as a Member, and I therefore consider it my duty to address you as Minister of the Interior with this issue. Buying with voters' votes was proven in the election year 2010, in favour of SOS - Party for Open Society for Český Těšín, and therefore the Ostrava court decided to void the vote. Then 8. 1. 2011 repeated voting took place, which once again bought votes for the SOS party. The course of the vote was monitored by an observer from Transparency International. According to this organization, people received a thousand and fifteen hundred crowns for one vote. Subsequently, the action was brought again, but it was not possible for citizens to prove this buying with votes. I believe that the sanctions and the demonstration of these negative acts violate the very principle of democracy in our country, and it is the main task of the police and its institutions to expose this. Dear Minister, buying votes in the town of Český Těšín and other municipalities of the Czech Republic is a very negative phenomenon that should not exist in the democratic system at all. For this reason, I am addressing you with the question of what concrete measures you are going to take in the forthcoming elections so that these elections in the municipalities take place in a spirit of democratic principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u113	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u114	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, according to the available information available to the Ministry of the Interior, the information regarding the possible purchase of votes published on Facebook, which is not an official Facebook page of the city of Český Těšín. However, the Municipal Authority of Český Těšín immediately took measures and the facts found were informed by the Municipal Police in Český Těšín as well as all the precinct electoral commission. In the event that any facts suggesting possible buying of votes are identified, it is necessary to immediately inform the relevant city police or state police and to make an official record of such a matter. At the same time, the complaint was lodged with the State Prosecutor Karviná instead of the towns of Český Těšín. The Ministry of the Interior continues to monitor the situation in Český Těšín. The Ministry of Interior will instruct the municipal authorities to consider similar measures according to local conditions, in cooperation with the Police of the Czech Republic or with the municipal police if it is established in this municipality. Knowledge of public policy in the course of elections may subsequently serve as a basis for any legal proceedings, and at the end of the proceedings may mean that the elections are void or that the vote is void. [[16.40 hours]] The Constitutional Court has already stated that the abolition of elections cannot be regarded as a punishment for violating electoral rules, but as a means of ensuring the legitimacy of the elected authority. The probability of the influence of electoral defect or electoral offense on the electoral outcome in specific elections with specific voters in a specific place is crucial. This certainly does not preclude a candidate who has committed a serious electoral offence, such as fraud or bribery, or thus buying votes, from being disqualified for the offence of Section 351 of the Criminal Code. In response to the situation that occurred in the general elections to municipal councils and municipalities in 2010, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, amended the criminal law in § 351 on the extension of the facts of the offence of obstruction of elections and referendums. The question of buying votes was addressed in general elections to municipal councils held on 15 and 16 October 2010, including in Český Těšín. The question of buying votes in Český Těšín was dealt with by the Regional Court in Ostrava and subsequently by the Constitutional Court. For this reason, the vote was repeated in Český Těšín. Thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u115	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. No, the answer was complete and clear. I also thank the Minister. Mr. František Laudát, Mr. Antonín Prachař, will interpel the next interview, the ninth in order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no point, I had four or five interviews scheduled for today, one of which I didn't get to draw by interpelling. There's no point. And I'm just gonna say what I said this morning. I'm not used to interpelling, and in my political career, I've interpelled here once, which is why the President of the House, Mr. Zaorálek, made a hard comment, even in the Topolánek era. However, I must say that the situation at the Ministry of Transport is already so alarming that the government should not wait for it to make a possible change or take any measures after municipal and Senate elections. What I wanted to interpel, if I could take advantage of it like this, it's: D11, smuggling some operations, not settling land, and yet closing additions. D-1. The change in time, the violation of the tender, and please, it concerns everything that is already at the mercy of this minister. He may have disproved me that it wasn't, but even from the available media sources, there's something that's happening here and there. A change in the project means not to finance it with European money. And you can see for yourself that the media and the public are starting to laugh at us, that the state has money, and they don't build highways. Absurd situation. That's why I'm pulling all my interpelations. And I'm really going to suggest, and it's not in a bad way, I don't want to smash political capital out of it, but there are so many interpellings on the various transport topics, it's just a completely furious situation - how to proceed with the toll system operator, as it will be with other investments. I wouldn't blame him, but on the contrary, I'm gonna stick up for not drawing money from the Transport Infrastructure Fund, because I know the situation that happens every year. However, I must say that the situation is really alarming, and I am sorry that the last remnants of what still worked in this resort are being destroyed. And it's bad for this republic. So, thank you, and please have all my other interpelations withdrawn today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u117	Thank you, I'd be happy to do so. Mr Laudát's further interpellation followed by the withdrawn interpellation of Mr Stanjura followed by another, eleventh, interpellation of Mr Martin Novotný to Mr Milan Chovanec's Minister of the Interior on the issue of the electronicisation of the public administration. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u118	Dear Minister, this April you announced a halt to the work on some major projects of the electronicisation of public administration, namely the e-Collection project, the e-Legislative project. In both cases, these are projects that could lead to significant cost savings. As a former mayor, I am well aware of the means spent, for example, by municipalities for compulsory acquisition of printed originals Collections of Laws, their subsequent archiving and so on. However, this is far from being the only potential contribution of these projects. They can also play an important role in the pursuit of an overall simplification of our legislative environment, the transparency of the law-making process, the elimination of the error rate of these processes and their overall improvement of legislation as such. The secondary effect can be large savings of economic, savings in ministries, which this government often talks about, in the public administration at all, and so on, and so on. Moreover, I remind you that they have successfully introduced binding electronic publication of collections of laws and international treaties already in 12 countries of the European Union. At the time, the argument was that European funds could not be used, the funds are not in the state budget, so the money is not, and we will continue when they do. So my question logically points to what has happened in this matter over the past five months, whether any work, any preparation of this project has started again, has been modified by some kind of time vision of preparation, launch, implementation. What is the current situation and your plans in this area, or whether it really meant that nothing was happening that was waiting for the money, because it can also be waiting for Godot nowadays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u119	I thank the Member and ask the Minister of the Interior for his reply. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u120	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with everything that has been said here. This means about the needs of the e-Collection project, e-Legislatives. Unfortunately, it is a project whose costs are estimated in the order of several hundred million, almost a billion crowns approaching. We were faced with a decision whether to continue from national sources or whether to suspend this project and try to apply it in the next planning period. We decided, given that we simply did not have the funds needed, that we would present this project as a priority project within the next planning period, that is, in 2014 plus. This project is done, completed, completed to be submitted as part of a request for European money. We expect such a timeline that this project would be submitted in the second quarter of 2015 and we expect it to be fully operational from 1 January 2019. At present, the Ministry is still finishing this project, preparing an application that will be submitted, and of course we are waiting for the conditions in the respective operational programme. I want to assure you that this is not a change in the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior and the launch of this programme, rather the opposite. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u121	Thank you, Minister. The Member is not interested in an additional question, so thank you both. Mr Jan Zahradník withdrew his intervention on Minister Prachař, unfortunately absent. So another 13th interpellation will be the interpellation of Mr Ladislav Velebný to the same minister, the absent Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař. Unfortunately, Mr Velebný is not present, so his interpellation will not be discussed either. 14th interpelation: Mrs Dana Váhalová will interpel the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on a visit to Ukraine. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, nice late afternoon. Dear Minister, I know that you visited Ukraine, where you discussed possible assistance from the Czech Republic and discussed with the first Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. I also know that you have met our countrymen in Zitomir. Can you please inform us about your trip and the current situation in Ukraine from the point of view of both local citizens and from your point of view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u123	I thank the Member and ask the Secretary of State for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u124	Thank you. Of course, I am happy to inform about yesterday's trip to Ukraine, where I actually acted both in Kiev and in Zitomir, where I was familiar with the situation of the country community. That was a long way to go, and I can say that even the public debate, as I have registered, I would like to respond. I think I can assure you that there is no mass strain on our countrymen from Ukraine, because the situation of the Volyně Čech and other compatriots in Ukraine - at this point I do not think it would require any emergency measures. The oxen are west of Kiev, there are no fighting or riots. I am well aware that those who want to relocate or have an interest in living in the Czech Republic should apply for permanent residence, most compatriots can apply on preferential terms, obtain a permanent residence permit and move on the basis of it. Since April, the decisions I have made that make it easier to obtain Schengen visas on preferential terms, even free of charge for our countrymen in Ukraine, and if they are interested, they can then obtain a long-term visa for a period of up to five years. I was also more familiar with how this new measure, which has been launched since 1 April, works, whether everyone is informed about it and whether I feel it as a real advantage. The debate that I had with our compatriots was about which things were unintelligible, or it appeared that they may not yet be fully drawn from the bureaucratic point of view of the negotiations. So they really feel like they're being treated in a way that's not the same here. That's what we were talking about last night. It seems to me that the possible influx of countrymen is still at the same level today. If I had to guess, because I don't have the exact numbers, so let's say it's 30 applications for permanent residence during this year. And that's no more than if we were comparing it to last years. It seems to me that my visit has confirmed that the situation is stable there. We continue in the form of aid, which we provide above all, to strengthen cultural identity. We talked about another possible teacher of the Czech language, who is interested there, and similar things. I think the visit was successful and actually confirmed the information I have from the area. At the same time, I brought a gift to Kiev for the Ukrainian Red Cross, two tons of medical supplies for hospitals in the east of Ukraine, mainly bandage material, but also breathing devices for hospitals in Dnipropetrovsk and Kharkiv, blankets and other equipment for refugees from the east, which we handed over there. We are also trying to support the emergence of mobile medical clinics for the winter to provide basic medical care in the east of Ukraine. I also spoke about this with the first Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Halibarenko, because I was wondering what Ukraine needed most for the winter. It is obvious that the situation will not be easy. East, the infrastructure's been destroyed. If it were true and what we all wish the ceasefire would work, it is evident that it will be difficult to survive the winter in the east of Ukraine, and I was wondering what scenarios the Ukrainian party here envisages so that we can be informed of what we can provide most in Ukraine. These were actually the main questions I was asking Mrs Halibarenka, and we have been trying to clarify the situation in some way, and I think we will continue to do so. But I have rather asked the Czech Party to know what we can do, because I would like to submit some proposals to the Government on how we could help Ukrajina cope with the winter, and I would like to know with the Ukrainian side that these are the things that they need right now. At the same time, Mrs Halibarenko informed me about the political scene before the forthcoming elections. About how the atmosphere is created there also in connection with what is happening in the east, and about such things as for example. the preliminary implementation of the economic agreements that exist between Ukraine and the European Union in connection with the efforts to also make Russia a part of that solution. Those were probably the key topics. I suppose now at the UN General Assembly, I will meet with the Foreign Minister Mr. Klimkin next week, whom I just missed in Kiev. It was part of regular contacts with the Ukrainian side and, above all, collecting information that the Czech Republic could do most effectively for the citizens of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u125	Thank you, Minister. I'm going to ask the lady for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u126	Perhaps only if the Minister - thank you for his answer - could say a few words about the atmosphere in Kiev and how it affected him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u127	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u128	Personally, I haven't seen a MP put in a dumpster. If that's what you're talking about in our media, I haven't come around, so I can't tell you about it. Unfortunately, I wasn't even in parliament, I visited the State Department. In Parliament, what's the atmosphere, I don't think I'm gonna tell you at this point. But I think that what is probably the most important thing right now is that, indeed, parliamentary elections are approaching in Kiev, and I feel that what is happening on the public scene, as well as the statements that are being made, are significantly underestimated by the fact that they are collecting votes. Perhaps now I would recommend that we also consider the events in Kiev and Ukraine in terms of deciding on the composition of the next Parliament and that this is also a matter of some strategy that is now taking place there and what those politicians are doing at the moment or how they present themselves. That is what I think is most important to Ukraine today. The atmosphere in Kiev. For me, I admit, it was a surprise that Maidan was completely cleaned up, it looked completely civil, there were no tents or anything like that. The space is already civilized, and it looks like a normal quiet town. Even if you're asking about the atmosphere, the police are already functioning. I remember the police were afraid to turn on the blue lights and even draw attention to themselves a while ago. Today, I think it's back to normal. I've seen that cops are not ashamed of being cops anymore, and they're not afraid to show that they're in public order. So it seemed to me that Kyjev had significantly returned to normal life at this moment. I think that the next stability of the country will be decided by elections that are probably a key event on the horizon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u129	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. Mrs Olga Havlová, who will interpel the unfortunately absent minister Antonín Prachař, came forward with another interview on the sale of railway houses. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u130	Thank you for the floor. And while the Minister is not here, at least I'd like to read my interview. Minister, the division of the state enterprise České dráhy into České dráhy and the Railway Infrastructure Administration did not allegedly take over all liabilities to the successor company. I'm being approached by citizens who were interested in privatizing guard houses. One of them at Bystřice No. 67, where he had a duly signed lease agreement with the original ČD company, in which it was in Art. 7 directly stated, "the sale of the house is already under way" SŽDC received a new lease agreement from the successor company, in which the sale is also discussed, but it has to be repaired at its own expense. The tenant in good faith that the sale is being settled has invested considerable funds in the property. He planned to fix the roof, and unfortunately, when he asked for the sale again, he was not granted. On the contrary, a new lease was submitted to him, which he would have to sign just to avoid being evicted. I ask you to state why all the liabilities to the acquiring company, i.e. the liabilities and the contractual disposals of real estate have not been taken over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u131	I thank the Member, who will unfortunately be answered in writing due to the absence of the Minister. We will deal with the sixteenth interpelation, it is the interpelling of Mr. Josef Šenfeld to also the absent Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš in dealing with the flood damage of athletes in 2013. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister of Finance, I reached out to the Minister of Education that the government of the Czech Republic decided on financial assistance for the affected floods in 2013. Unfortunately, the sport environment has not yet resolved the situation with compensation for flooding. The Olympic Committee and the Sports Associations have gathered the documentation and everything needed from sports clubs in real time. Unfortunately, no funds have been delivered to the national unions until now. The annual delay is very long and it is possible that most devices, if they do not have immediate financial assistance, will not be able to repair their sports grounds at all. On 19 August, the Minister of Education replied that everything was prepared for him. The necessary documents have already been sent to your Ministry of Finance and since then there has been no report on the outcome and possible aid to eliminate the consequences of the flood damage to sports facilities from 2013. The most difficult situation of some sports clubs in Litoměřicka, which were most affected by the floods, leads me to interpelation. Minister, I ask for an early resolution of this matter, and for that I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u133	I thank the honourable Member for the interview, which will be answered in writing. The next interview will be an interview by Mrs Květ Matušovská, who is coming in right now, Minister Jan Mládek, on the obligation to mark goods with a selling and fair price, i.e. retail price. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 1. 5. 2014 ended a 10-year transitional period for smaller stores where they did not have to mention the price of a fair but sufficient sales. The transitional exemption was intended to prevent disproportionate claims on these stores and on the burdens of entrepreneurs who, unlike large-scale stores, do not have technology or personnel. At present, these vendors risk being fined for up to CZK 5 000 when checked by the Trade Office or the Czech Trade Inspection Authority. Given the turnover of these small stores, they are at risk of being eliminated from the market. The point is that prices are changing in line with the evolution of supply and demand, when the price of goods needs to be changed, for example, every week. I understand that this issue also interferes with the Price Act and the Ministry of Finance issues. However, I am interested, Minister, in what you will do to prevent small and medium-sized enterprises from being liquidated, and especially for small rural businesses that, in some cases, could not even work without the help of municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u135	I thank the Member and ask the Minister to explain this difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u136	Mr President, Madame Members, Madame Members, allow me to comment on the problem of small businessmen who were exempted in May of this year, respectively. a 10-year transitional period during which they were excluded from the obligation to indicate the goods by selling and fixing the price. The obligation to indicate the sales price at the same time as the price is fixed results from Act No. 526/1990 Coll., on prices, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Finance and which, among other things, implements European legislation. The Czech Trade Inspection Authority is based on § 12 para. 1 of Law No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, is obliged to check whether the seller informs the consumer in accordance with the Price Act. When establishing the violation of the law, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority is obliged to proceed under the law and impose a corresponding fine in the event of the finding of the infringement. In determining the amount of the fine, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority is obliged to take into account the seriousness of the administrative offence, in particular the manner in which it is committed and the consequences thereof and the circumstances in which it was committed - paragraph 24b. 2 of the Consumer Protection Act. With the knowledge of possible adverse effects in quotation marks, the Czech Trade Inspection decided to take account of the fact that entrepreneurs were not able to adapt to this adjustment. Note: Although the adjustment took effect in 2004, the obligation for small entrepreneurs was postponed until ten years later. It cannot be assumed that this obligation will remain in the awareness of the business public after such a long time. In this spirit, the Inspectorates of the Czech Trade Inspection were therefore invited to take account of these facts in their control activities. Furthermore, it is clear that the control of specific prices given by small retailers is not currently a priority of the supervision activities of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority. In view of other important areas which the supervisory authority is obliged to control, such as lending, Internet sales, product safety, technical requirements for products, it is not expected that the indication of specific prices for small businessmen would be at the heart of the institution's attention even in the foreseeable future. For the sake of completeness, however, I must add that if the Czech Trade Inspection Authority receives the complaint, it must respond to it and conduct an investigation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me make one comment. I believe that the Czech Trade Inspection has done its utmost to mitigate the hardness of the impact of the law and at the same time not to break the law itself. If the interest in a system solution were to prevail, it would be necessary to amend the provision in question of the Price Act. However, this would mean a change in European legislation, namely the Consumer Protection Directive, when labelling the prices of products offered to consumers 98/6/EC. However, at the same time, allow me to point out that informing consumers of specific prices is generally desirable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u137	I thank the Minister for his reply. I'm going to ask the lady for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u138	I'm just like a consumer, Minister, I get it, the specific units. But you have to realize that there is a difference between a small shop and a hypermarket where you have a lot of products and you can compare prices. But then you come to a village store that only has one product or two, and the consumer can either do the math or choose the cheaper one. There's a problem with this. So I think that right there, in small village shops, it's going to miss the effect. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u139	Thank you, Madame. The Minister has an additional answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u140	Mr President, I would only react briefly. Of course, I understand this problem, on the other hand, I would like to say that consumer protection is also a high priority for this government, it is also my personal priority and I cannot resign from it. The only thing that can be done to ensure that any fines, if this is violated if consumers do not receive the information, are proportionate and are not at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u141	I thank the Minister for his reply. Mr Radim Holeček, who will interpel the Minister Daniel Herman in the Collegium Bohemic case, will present another interview, on the 18th. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u142	Dear Minister, today I have intersected the Prime Minister in the case of the Museum of History of Germans in Ústí nad Labem regarding the implementation of the Czech-German museum exhibition of Collegium Bohemicum. The town of Ústí nad Labem under the leadership of the ODS received an internationally binding promise by the Czech Government to finance the construction of an exhibition of 1,500 sqm. The new content of the activity of the reconstructed museum and, above all, the internationally attractive permanent exhibition is intended to profile the socially weak Ústí region in a national and cross-border context and attract tourists. Unfortunately, today's social democratic leadership, for reasons of close party interests, did not take the project for its own sake and its implementation and its further existence fully depended on the promise of state funding, which your government also signed up for. The implementation of a replacement solution in the form of a non-ambic and fast-prepared Czech-German exposition in the city of Ústí nad Labem will endanger both the whole European subsidy invested in the reconstruction of the building and the reputation of the Czech Republic in neighbouring countries. I have actually received two answers today as an answer from the Prime Minister: that Collegium Bohemic is not fulfilling project commitments and that the Ministry of Culture is looking for resources. I would like to say, because I am quite aware of the fact that Collegium Bohemicum is long-term underfunded by its founders, and because of a minor formal error, Collegium Bohemicum is placed in an existential threat. The Ministry of Culture is looking for resources. Well, formally, the Ministry of Culture has been looking for the right way to finance the exhibition since 2011. So I'm asking, how is it different this time? Is the promise of state funding binding and reliable?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u143	I thank the Member and ask the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman for his answer to this question. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u144	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Member, colleagues, first of all thank you for this question and I am pleased with your interest in this project, because we consider Collegium Bohemic to be a very important project which, of course, deserves full support. And I'll tell you, I think, pretty positive information. But let me recap a little bit of history. Collegium Bohemicum was founded on 19 October 2006 on the basis of a contract between the founders of the statutory city of Ústí nad Labem, the University of Jan Evangelista Purkyně, the Society for the History of Germans in Bohemia. The founders are not equal in the Governing Board. The main founder in terms of voting rights is the statutory city, which has also been the most important contributor so far. On 21 May 2008, the Government of the Ministry of Culture imposed an entry among the founders. In the second half of 2011, she was appointed a member of the Board of Directors of Collegia Bohemica for the Ministry of Culture, Deputy Minister Anna Matoušková, who is deputy director today and is still a member of the Board of Directors. As I said, the Ministry of Culture perceives the activity of Collegia Bohemica very positively, even though some other memory institutions, such as the National Museum, the Silesian Museum, the Military Historical Institute and others, are dealing with this issue. The 2008 Government resolution does not impose on the Ministry of Culture, nor does it allow direct financing of the operation of Collegium Bohemicum, and the company can draw funds on specific projects from tender procedures, but this does not address the situation. When I joined office in January this year, I immediately requested all the materials relating to this institution, and I mapped out the problems that are. At the moment, the situation is that we do not only have a promise, but clearly guaranteed from the Ministry of Finance that we will receive the sum of CZK 48 million for next year, which is given and is in full compliance with the project plans. There's three million more to be financed. We have these 3 million in our own resources of the Ministry of Culture and we will also provide them to Collegio Bohemica. But there is a matter of what you are, Mr. MP, himself mentioned that there has been a violation of the budgetary rules. That is, I have informed the Prime Minister of this, and the search for a solution is that we will be entrusted with releasing the 3 million by the Government's resolution. At this point, I can guarantee it's 51 miles in total. CZK for this project, which is the sum that is needed. We have prepared those paths in a rather, let's say, more crooked way, and I will submit the government's resolutions to the government. So I fully appreciate the importance of this institution, it has my full support, and I believe that, in cooperation with the Office of the Government and other colleagues and colleagues in the Government, we will do what I say here. Thank you again for your support and your concern.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u145	I thank the Minister for the good news. I shall ask the Member for his supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u146	I thank the Minister very much. I was completely satisfied with it, and I am very happy because it is also my heart's business. I'm a graduate Germanist and historian, and I work at Jan Evangelista Purkyně University, so I'll bring you some good news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u147	Thank you, honourable Member. More satisfied Members, that is our wish. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Mr Adolf Beznoska will give another interview to Minister Michaela Marksová on employment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues, some questions about Minister Marksová. I wanted to ask you what stage the creation of those subsidised jobs in state firms is at. There was talk of about 288 thousand. for one job created. At what stage is it ready? Or what amount of funding do you expect in the draft state budget for 2015 to create these jobs? If you have any keys, how will these jobs be created? And if these are socially effective jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u149	I thank the honourable Member and ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for her answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u150	Hello, Mr President, colleagues. Now I don't know what's going to happen with the satisfaction, because I think there's a little bit more mixed up in here. [[with a smile]] As far as we're going to encourage state-owned enterprises to take more unemployed, this is a project that has no special outlines. There have been several negotiations with state-owned firms, but it is not basically the introduction of any extraordinary instruments, because this was an agreement for state-owned enterprises to try to use our existing active employment policy tools, those that already exist to know about them and to try to work with the labour authorities, because I believe that the public sector should be the first to use these instruments, such as the municipalities and cities already use them. Otherwise, in general, with regard to active employment policy and promotion of jobs, I say, nothing special changes there. Now, I don't have the amount that's in the budget for active employment policy, but I think it's about 4 billion. Crowns. At the same time, it is expected that a number of projects subsidising unemployed jobs in different categories are difficult to place, which are financed by European funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u151	Now, Mr. Ambassador, after the previous interpellation, how are you? Are you satisfied, too?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u152	Well, in part, I think we understand each other. Maybe it would be nice -- and we'll see that when we talk about the budget -- what's on the APZ. But the debate, you mentioned it here, the Prime Minister mentioned it here, was really about you being willing to provide as much as 288 thousand. CZK annually to create one job. So I thought you were calculating it somehow. And as part of that part of the APZ that you're going to have it calculated somehow in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u153	Thank you. Madam Secretary doesn't have an additional answer. I thank the honourable Member, Madam Secretary. Mr. Jiří Štětina, who is to interpel the Minister of Health, is to be prepared with further intervention. But I don't see both of them present. So we're going to continue with another interpellation, this time 23. Mr René The cervix is intended to intersect the absent Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka in the matter of religious restitution and land office. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, in the Cadastral of Vysoké v Bruntálsko municipality it is earmarked for the religious restitution of 50 hectares of arable land owned by the Land Fund. These plots were rented by the Land Office to a private farmer who paid property tax. As of 31. 12. 2013 the rent was cancelled. The Land Office subsequently concluded an agreement with a private farmer on the maintenance of the land for a fixed period until 31 May 2014. 12. 2014. Farmers therefore did not have a tax obligation because the relevant period for the payment of property tax is 1 January. If the land office does not conclude a new contract from 1. 1. the municipality will lose this tax again. [[17.20 hours]] And so I ask. Who will pay the tax to the municipality or compensate it? For the municipality The high tax for one year amounts to about CZK 14,000. From the point of view of the management of the million-dollar budgets, this may seem negligible, but in this village with about 300 inhabitants, this amount will be paid by the operation of, for example, public lighting for two and a half months or one-month municipal waste collection. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u155	Thank you, honourable Member. It will be answered in writing. Mrs Jitka Chalánková has another interview on the work of the Office for International Children's Protection and it is an interview on the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u156	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Minister, given that I am dealing with various cases of children of Czech parents abroad, when these families turn for help, especially from the United Kingdom, Norway and the like, to the Office for International Children's Protection, I do not always see an adequate and timely response. I wanted to ask whether it is possible to focus on the work of this office and whether you have the numbers and specific cases available, in how many cases parents have turned to the Office for International Child Protection and what the success of this office is backwards for several years, about three years, if possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u157	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová for her answer. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u158	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have quite detailed statistics at my disposal concerning the collection of children in the UK. I don't have any other cases that I'm dealing with right now, but they're different families of the Norwegian type. Perhaps, in general, we should say that the numbers in the UK are so large due to migration, because there is a relatively large number of families from the Czech Republic. In fact, the reasons why British standards and ideas about how children are to be treated in a family are, in fact, more stringent than ours. At the same time, I would say that Britain does not distinguish what parents of ethnic origin are, what ethnicity they have, simply measuring very honestly all the same subway, and that is sometimes a problem. Generally it can be said that the reasons for removing children from families, and this is the statistics I have, are mostly those that parents overuse alcohol or intoxicating substances, commit violence against children or are threatened by domestic violence among adults, are left without the care of parents, or are cases associated with non-compliance with compulsory schooling, and sometimes by neglecting child care and not cooperating with the authorities as I repeat, it is a custom in Britain as they have standards. The Office for International Legal Protection has long sought to keep the British authorities in particular, because there is the case most, inform the Czech representative office in time and do their duty. As soon as the Czech authorities learn about the case, they immediately start communicating at the relevant interstate level and therefore try to work on the British side in this case in order to return children to a wider family, which is in the Czech Republic. Of course, it doesn't always work out. Otherwise, for interest. I'll just tell you the aggregate numbers from 2010 to 2014, it's the statistics that are being monitored. Only 139 children were observed in Britain, but 59 families were involved. 139 children were taken, 14 of which were returned to the Czech Republic so far. In 53 cases of driving, 42 children are still in foster care abroad. The others are relatively small numbers, for example, only the six cases were referred to the Czech courts. And as for the statistics of other countries where there are various individual cases, somewhere there are divorced parents, where one is a foreign national, I do not have that at present, and I can add it in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u159	I thank the Minister for her answer. I'm going to ask the lady for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u160	Thank you for your answer. Maybe we didn't get along completely. Thank you for this. That's also important. But I was just about to see if a concrete audit could be done on the work of the Office for International Children's Protection, as much as anyone who applied for help and when they responded and how successful they were. It doesn't have to be right away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u161	Okay, we're taking this as a task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u162	I thank the Minister and the Member. Another intervention will be the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová to the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec on the Czech Republic's response to the Islamic State. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in my interview, I would like to address a certain aspect of the phenomenon of the so-called Islamic State, which is somewhat in the shadow of Ukrainian-Russian events, however serious a danger for Europe and its security, I believe. Specifically, I would like to draw attention to a problem that is quite widely discussed on the pages of the foreign press. It is the return of citizens of European countries who have fought in the ranks of Islamist fighting in Iraq and Syria, back to Europe. Especially in the United Kingdom and France, there is agreement that these people pose a serious danger. Although I realize that the situation in the Czech Republic is already different with regard to the size of the Muslim community here, I believe that the state should take measures that can effectively face the threat of trained fanatics. Dear Minister, my question is simple. Are adequate steps taken to eliminate potential dangers? I would be very sorry if we had to regret any inactivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u164	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Minister for assurance that the maximum steps are being taken. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u165	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me only perhaps a brief entry from my meeting with the Minister of the Interior of the Kurdish Autonomous Region on the subject of the Islamic State, so that I can explain to you how serious the problem is. Today, the Islamic state is spread over 100 thousand square kilometers. In Kurdistan, which currently has 4.5 miles. The population is 1.4 mil. refugees. There is a humanitarian disaster, even as Kurdistan will have a relatively severe winter in about three months, as every year and for 1.4 miles. Kurdistan refugees do not have enough food, water or accommodation. We feel this thing very, very seriously. The Islamic State today extends to the territory on which it lives 12 miles. The people, and gradually arm themselves with the weapons they acquire from the Iraqi army. At least two divisions handed over their entire armaments to the fighters of the Islamic State, i.e. modern weapons originating from Russian and American provenience. It's a really serious problem. At present, the Kurdish party is the only fighting force in the region that has roughly 100 thousand in the fight today. soldiers who are able to face the Islamic State. For your information, the Kurdish Autonomous Region now shares a common border with the Islamic State of 1,050 km. With its own Iraq, Kurdistan is now only 15 kilometers away. We see this as a huge security risk for the future. As for the fighters of the Islamic State, they often recruit from citizens of European states, Chechnya, Syria and others. These are fighters who have gone through the most difficult battles, let it be Chechnya, Syria, Libya and other battlefields around the world. [[17.30 hours]] The Czech Republic, as well as our allies, exchange intelligence information and all our secret services focus on these risks. Unfortunately, I cannot be more specific, but the measures are being taken, they are also done within the Office for Foreign Information, which is partly under, perhaps, supervision or administration of the Ministry of the Interior. So I can assure you that we are taking this very seriously, sharing information with our allies, whether it be the United States, Israel and other partners all over Europe. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u166	Thank you, Minister. The Member does not have an additional question, but the lot has determined that the Member also has the following interview, in which she will interpelise Minister Helena Válková on the death penalty. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u167	Thank you. Madam Secretary, a few days ago, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš gave a remarkable thought. He called for the restoration of the death penalty, an institute that was abolished in Czechoslovakia immediately after the fall of the Communist regime. This idea is all the more interesting that a representative of the movement who is a member of a liberal camp at European level has been heard. It is precisely the rules adopted on the ground of European institutions that prohibit the introduction of the death penalty, and I therefore consider it completely unthinkable, if the Czech Republic wants to continue to remain in a good European society. Madam Secretary, my question is: How do you personally view Mr Babiš's idea? And what is the official position of the Czech government on this serious issue, virtually. The Justice Department? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u168	Thank you, Madame. And I'll ask the Minister of Justice Helena Válková for an answer. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u169	Mr President, and by your means, honourable and kind Member, I completely understand your question. I think you've been pointing him towards me, knowing the past. I was on the committee that co-initiated the abolition of the death penalty by Amendment No. 175/1990 Coll., which became effective at 1. 7. Thus, 1990, when a ban was introduced from that moment on, the death penalty was abolished and replaced by a life sentence. For educational purposes only: At present life sentence as can be imposed in the strictest form means life sentence with the possibility to release after 20 years, but the court, when imposing it, in cases of special consideration of worthy, or serial murders, very brutal, brutal murders, may still determine that the time spent in a prison with increased security is not included in the total period for conditional release required for 20 years. And yet for these crimes, the minimum time spent in a high-security prison is 10 years, so first comes the release of a 30-year sentence, plus now we can impose a follow-up life sentence for several years. It is therefore also called a life sentence, I think, by law, a social death penalty. There's only one question about your question after this introduction. I interpreted the statement, which, of course, first picked me up from the chair, but then I realized the context as a statement by someone who had put himself in the position of a father who would have had something similar happen to the father of that poor Eliška. So I don't have a problem with that in this regard. I think that each of us has a right to emotions, and I don't know for myself if something like this had happened to me, I would also be excluded from objective assessment in these kinds of cases, as I would have reacted in that first spontaneous reaction. And he was probably surprised. I don't know. So I personally heard his statement mediated. I think you're behind him, as I've heard, standing in the sense that he said he was in the role of the father. And that's all I can say about it. My position, which is also apparent from what I said, that I think that the social death penalty, or life sentence, actually with a minimum possibility of conditional release, is a punishment that corresponds to a cultural European tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u170	Thank you, Minister. I shall ask the Member if there is any further question. Not interested. Thank you. Mr Karamazov, Mr Holeček and Mrs Černochová are also withdrawing their interpelations. Mr Jan Zahradník, who is absent, is also withdrawing his intervention, is following. And followed by Mr. Ludvík Hovorka with an interview with Minister Marcel Chládek. But Mr. Hovorka is also absent. We're coming to interpelation number one. 32 and this is Mr. Václav Klučka, who will intersect Minister Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u171	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I will perhaps prove to you by this interview that coalition MPs are not prepared to interpel just so that coalition ministers here can spread out on their topics, that it is quite serious, but unfortunately I am lecturing it at a time when Minister Němeček apologized because he has to be at the meeting of the Health Committee. Mr Vice-President, I think these are things that not only should the Organizing Committee, the House's leadership, as they once said, keep an eye on a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u172	I agree with you, Mr. Ambassador. [[Messenger. - Thank you.]] And I also greeted the chairman of the Health Committee from this place, saying I didn't consider it appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u173	Here's the thing. I received an open letter from employees and managers of the Health Insurance Company of the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic, in which, in my opinion and the evidence in this open letter, they clearly and fairly criticise the behaviour of the director of the health insurance company. I can't believe the Health Department doesn't know about these problems. I can't believe they're comparing the situation as they describe it to the dramatic situation at Na Homolce Hospital. I would really ask you, Minister, to give you this open letter, so that you can answer the fundamental questions concerning the very bad activity of the director of this health insurance company, so that you can answer in such a way that I really understand this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u174	Thank you, honourable Member. The reply for the above reasons will be sent to him in writing. Another duly applied for an interview after Mr František Laudát withdrew his interview is Mr René Číp, who will interpel Mr Andrej Babiš's Finance Minister on real estate tax coefficients. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u175	Thank you once more for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, I would like to interpel you on the issue of the real estate tax coefficients. In 2009, municipalities were allowed to introduce a local coefficient which could increase real estate tax to up to five times the basic rate. In 2010, this tax figure began to be calculated in a different way than it had been until then, and the basic rate has mostly doubled. This could have resulted in a tenfold reduction in this tax between 2008 and 2010. Don't you feel like the Minister of Finance the possibility of using these coefficients unfair to citizens who are supposed to pay different taxes for the same property statement? Municipalities benefiting from a coefficient of 100 per cent of the revenue of this tax often provide the same services as those not using it or the difference between them does not correspond to their different income. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u176	Thank you, honourable Member. He, too, will probably be answered in writing under the House's Rules of Procedure Act. Furthermore, we have Mr Bendl, Stanjura, who are giving up their interpellation. The following is an interview by Mr 37 of Mr Ladislav Šincl on the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman on the issue of the train station in Havířov. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u177	Dear Minister, I am addressing you on a joint project of České dráhy and the statutory city of Havířov under the name Transport Terminal Havířov. The implementation of this project is again threatened by the reopening of the administrative procedure for declaring the railway station a cultural monument. The statutory city of Havířov was 15. 7th of this year, although the Ministry of Culture has already made a negative decision on this matter, it called for a new administrative procedure to be opened. The co-realizer of this project, České dráhy, came to the same conclusion as the city of Havířov, in the sense that the initiation of the administrative procedure is not justified and therefore proposes to suspend the procedure. Unfortunately, the city of Havířov and České dráhy cannot continue this project during the administrative procedure and the implementation of the entire project worth almost CZK 200 million is seriously threatened. The entire project is to be co-financed by the Regional Council of the Region of Cohesion in Moravian-Silesia by the amount of nearly CZK 135 million and has to be completed and reimbursed by 31. 12. 2015 when the regional operational programme ends. Dear Minister, the statutory city of Havířov is in danger of serious damage due to the reopening of administrative proceedings, consisting of the costs of preparing the project so far since 2010 and the loss of funds from the above mentioned subsidy. Therefore, I want to ask you whether you are willing to help the youngest city in the Czech Republic, the city of Havířov, so that this high financial loss does not occur and a modern transport terminal could be built here as much as possible. I believe the citizens of Havířov deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u178	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister to answer if he's willing to help the city of Havířov. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, colleagues, the Havířov railway station has been preserved in its mass in the exterior and only partly in the interior and some original architectural elements and details, such as the check-in hall with marble chessboard tiles, stone and wooden seats, mosaic on the side western wall and so on. At present, the building is in poor technical condition and a complete reconstruction of the building is necessary. Some inappropriate building modifications were made in the building - the construction of a refreshment booth, the change of windows, doors, etc. By decision of 17 May 2012, the Ministry of Culture did not declare Havířov railway station a cultural monument. On the initiative of the civil association The mine of architecture was initiated by the review procedure, which was terminated by the resolution of the Minister of Culture of 19 June 2013. During the first half of 2014, the Ministry of Culture received several new initiatives to declare a set of items of the railway station in Havířov as a cultural monument, with new facts showing that the matter was declared a cultural monument. The Ministry of Culture evaluated all the suggestions received, found them reasonable and initiated administrative proceedings on the declaration of the Havířovská station for a cultural monument, mainly on the basis of the existence of new facts, including the opinions of leading experts in the field. By letter dated 15 July 2014, the Ministry of Culture requested, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the new opinions of the relevant authorities of the State conservation services necessary for the management of the administrative procedure in question. Specifically, it was the Municipal Authority of Havířov, the Regional Authority of the Moravian-Silesian Region and the National Monument Institute, the territorial professional workplace in Ostrava. The first two entities delivered their comments to the Ministry on 30 July 2014 and 28 July 2014 respectively, and the last one was delivered to the administrative authority on 19 August. The City of Havířov has requested that the proceedings in question be terminated. However, the Ministry of Culture did not comply with this request for termination of proceedings by letter of 26 August of the Minister of Culture. In proceedings for a declaration of a cultural monument, there is no obstacle to the matter decided or the principle "not of the same" is applied. It is therefore possible to initiate proceedings on a case in which no declaration of cultural heritage has been made in past proceedings. Within the administrative procedure where the participant has the opportunity to exercise his procedural rights and defend his interests, it is necessary to examine again whether or not the object exhibits sufficient historical values for the declaration of the matter as a cultural monument. Following an evaluation of the extensive file material, the parties were invited, in accordance with the administrative procedure, to consult the file before the decision was taken. The administrative act itself was consulted on the file on 8 September. A written copy of the decision in the case is currently being prepared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u180	I thank the Minister for his clear answer. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u181	Dear Minister, I apologize, but I asked if you were willing to help the statutory city of Havířov not to cause significant financial damage related to the costs incurred since 2010 and the subsidies promised to them under the regional programme Moravia-Silesia, which is CZK 135 million. I would like to ask you once again for a clear answer if you are willing to help this city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u182	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for a clear answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u183	We have to move within the limits of real possibilities and our competences, but in any case, I perceive this question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, if it would be possible to pass it on to me in writing with all the amendments that are relevant, and I will certainly give you an accurate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u184	Thank you, Minister. Next, we will continue with the 38th interview by Mrs Olga Havlová - she is withdrawn as well as the 39th interpellation of Mr Stanjura. The 40th interpellation of Mr René Číp to Mr. Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek in the case of Majdan and Ukraine follows. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u185	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, I have already interrogated you several times on the matter of the event in Ukraine, and today I must do so again. Can you give us the latest information on the state of the investigation of the first Ukrainian crisis, that's the shooting on Maidan? I mean, who was shooting at who and whose instinct? Today, this problem may seem trivial, taking into account the state of Ukraine's domestic political situation, but it is precisely by resolving this initial impulse that we can be blamed for all the events that followed, and also for today's state. It is very obvious that the Czech media has almost completely lost interest in this problem and only solves the situation today. And so it is you, as the most competent person, that I ask you to give us information. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u186	I'm asking the most competent person to give us information. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u187	Thank you. Have a good evening. I quite understand the interest in how there is actually an investigation into the events of Maidan, because most of these events have a great deal of interest at the time they happen, then interest falls and then it looks like everything is going to be lost. So I understand when someone asks what the results are and what they actually find out after a while. [[17.50 hours]] I can say that I was also interested in the results and how it progressed. Yesterday I was in Ukraine and Kiev, which is what I asked about. So, although I cannot say that there would be absolutely definite results at the moment, they also probably cannot be, given that there are even a number of institutions involved in this investigation, not only Ukrainian ones, so I could say about this here. At the moment, these events were dealt mainly with by the General Prosecutor of Ukraine and the Security Service of Ukraine, the so-called SBU. In July, the Supreme Council of Ukraine also announced its position. At the same time, an international investigation is under way. This international investigation is ongoing and there are no definitive conclusions and results at this time. The investigation process is also lengthy because there are a large number of expert experts, investigations, inquiries, calls of witnesses and so on. I can tell you the current situation. The General Prosecutor has completed the first pre-trial investigation now, just at the beginning of September, and on 12. 9. The General Prosecutor has published a report that the pre-trial and investigation of members of Berkut Police Special Unit has been completed. Berkut Company Commander and two of his subordinates were charged with the execution of mass murder on 20. 2. 2014 in the morning on Institutská Street. The investigation established that these persons, together with other law enforcement officers, exceeded their powers and duties, obeyed the orders of Ukraine's leaders at the time, and deliberately murdered 39 protesters. The accused was in accordance with Article 290 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on 10. 9. 2014 enabled to familiarise with the materials of the investigation. I repeat, a pre-trial investigation has been concluded, this is the phase of the procedure. The proceedings will continue. That means we can expect there to be a trial and that the whole thing will have an appropriate course of action. That phase is, as I said, an end to a pre-trial investigation. Then it is also an investigation conducted by the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was headed by certain, I think, General Moskal. In July, she published the results of the investigation into the shooting of protestors between 18 and 20. 2. According to the conclusions of this commission, a group organized mass killing. They stated that President Janukovyč was in charge of the time. The investigation committee also sent the conclusions to the General Prosecutor of Ukraine and identified Janukovyč as the main culprit precisely because he did not take any measures to stop the civil conflict, which resulted in such a number of victims. As a result of the investigation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is a set of people, politicians, who, according to them, are responsible for what happened. Among them are ministers of the government, minister of the interior, commander of internal troops, Deputy Minister and others. I can provide you with a set of people that they make guilty. Then, as I said, an international investigation is also underway. There are no concrete results here at the moment. I don't think I can tell you when to expect them right now, because I don't have the exact dates for the international investigation. But I'm prepared to keep up-to-date with the results of the international investigation - which aren't at the moment, so I can't report them. Once they are, we can make a deal. I'll either give it to you personally, or we can do it as you wish. I actually agree with this, I will be happy to watch it, I will be happy to watch the results, because I also think it is not good to deal with events only when they happen, but that there is also a need to examine the causes and the culprits and that it is completely legitimate, especially here in Parliament. So much for now. I can tell you the details in person.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u188	Thank you to Minister Zaorálek. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u189	I thank the Minister for his reply, with the fact that, of course, the objective results of the international investigation will still be communicated, respectively. I will, if necessary, continue to question or interpel in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u190	I thank both the Member and the Minister. 41. interpelation is the interpellation of Mr Václav Klučka to the absent Minister of Agriculture. The MP's pulling her out. Mr Ladislav Šincl's interpellation follows. Mr Šincl is not present, so I am also withdrawing his intervention. The 43rd interpelation of Mrs Olga Havlová to Mr. Minister without portfej Jiří Dienstbier in the matter of the press 256 is followed, locally usual rent. I'm saying the MP was right when she told me she was still going to get it. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u191	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Minister here with this interview. I appeal to the Minister, who is very involved in the law on aid in material distress. One of the main instruments to limit the abuse of housing supplements is to stop the dose with the so-called usual price. Such a solution is very unfortunate in consultation with the Vice-President of the Association of Real Estate Agencies, Mr Miroslav Duda. The proposed proposal will entail an enormous burden on the courts of all degrees in hundreds, rather than thousands of cases. All the lawyers present here will confirm the problems the formulation of the usual price is causing in the court proceedings. Opponents and review reports will be submitted for the assessment. The courts of all stages will be burdened with this agenda and millions of crowns will be spent in vain. The whole procedure will stretch over the years and most importantly, and I stress this, the concept of the usual price is so different for each individual city, for each individual house, for each individual apartment, that expert opinions will mean a burden on the state budget on the one hand, and if we decide across any tables, it will mean another systemic injustice. It may even happen to us that the rollout of the filutites will build hostels in the city centers. There will be the usual price higher than somewhere on the edge. I would like to ask if the Czech Government sees this problem and how it intends to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-18-ps2013-017-03-006-178.u192	Although you ask, Madame, you will be answered in writing because Minister Jiří Dienstbier is not present. Another interpellation, 44th in order, is the interpellation of Mr Simeon Karamazov, but since the seventeenth hour of the fifth minute of the last interpelation has passed, this concludes today's oral interpelation on the members of the Czech Republic's government. In view of the morning decision of the Chamber of Deputies, we will deal with other points. Item 31 will be followed. But before that happens, I have two more excuses. First of all, Mr Jiří Junek apologizes today from 17:00 for personal reasons and Mr František Laudát apologizes today from 18:00 also for personal reasons. So we're going to be dealing with this point.
