ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended / House print 215/ - second reading The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government will be presented by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u2	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Dear colleagues, let me briefly remind you of the bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, which we discussed in the first reading on 10 June 2014. This amendment implements one of the priorities of the government contained in the Government's programming declaration. It is proposed to introduce measures that will allow the refund of excise duty corresponding to the advantage in 2013, i.e. 40 per cent of the excise duty on conventional diesel fuel and 57 per cent of the so-called mixed diesel. The proposed regulation complies with the European Union's public support rules. The effectiveness of the proposed amendment is proposed on the first day of the calendar month following the date of its publication, with the possibility for the operators concerned to apply for the refund of excise duty on mineral oils consumed in the agricultural primary production from 1 July 2014. The proposed measures will have negative effects on public budgets of approximately CZK 1.3 billion per year. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to discuss the bill tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. I have two applications with priority rights. The first in line is Mr Kalousek. [[After agreement between the MPs off the microphone.]] Okay, I'd love to. So please let the Committee rapporteur, Mr Václav Votava, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Budget Committee of its 11th meeting on 26 June 2014 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, House press 215. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Hornochová, Mr Votava's intelligence report and the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, to the Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, approved by the House press 215, without comments. Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask the gentlemen who have the right of priority whether I can open the debate or whether they want to speak before the debate. [[After a long-distance arrangement.]] Okay, so I'm opening up a general debate. I ask for Mr Kalousek's microphone, and I ask that Mr Fiala be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't worry, I will not repeat all my reservations against this obvious tax distortion, against these doorways that open the way to tax evasion, and against this really pointless measure. Once again, if the government did not want to open the door to tax evasion and wanted to support farmers with the amount of 1.4 billion, it could do so in a subsidy way and do not have to have a distortion of the tax system. That it's nonsense, we've explained it many times. We will not have the same opinion, and we will express that opinion by voting. [[15.50 hours]] I volunteered for another reason. I volunteered to give you a friendly warning, at least social democracy and the Prime Minister in particular, to a degree of hypocrisy, which, as far as excise duty on fuel is concerned, took place here in the last parliamentary term. Let me remind you that in 2009, after the Lehman crisis and the fall in public budget revenues, where my successor and predecessor Eduard Janota - give him the lord of heaven - tried to stabilize at least what was possible, he presented a so-called Janotův's package to the House, where, in addition to the excise duty on beer, the excise duty on fuel also increased by roughly a crown. In the atmosphere at that time, the two basically government parties - because Fischerův's administrative government was the government of the ČSSD and ODS - approved this package of measures, but I was far from criticizing it in any way, because it was a really critical situation and required non-standard and critical measures, as unfortunately several times thereafter. In the following period, when the political government of Topolánkův was established, social democracy came to its opposition role and began overwhelmingly criticizing the situation when the excise duty on fuel was increased, it began to justify how amazingly the economy is suffering from this, suffering from economic growth, as it makes virtually any goods more expensive, as the increased price of fuel is reflected in it, and, as only a complete idiot - that means only Minister Kalousek, no one else - will propose a reduction in excise tax on diesel and petrol. Social democracy has repeated it several times, and has sought it several times. When I looked into other parties' electoral programs, which were not yet in the Chamber of Deputies, but now they are there, I'm basically reading the same thing. Both YES and KDU-ČSL say that excise duty on fuel will be applied to the minimum within the framework of the European Union's international commitments, not a penny more. Where's the proposal? Ladies and gentlemen, today all three government parties, the KDU, social democracy that has presented this here several times, the Prime Minister accused the finance minister of total dilettantism of not wanting to reduce excise duty on fuel and how it harms the Republic. Why do you want to harm the Republic now? Why aren't you suggesting such a thing? Did you lie back then? Did you lie then, or did you lie now? Well, I think you're lying all the time between us, but that's my private opinion, and I don't force it on you. I'd just like you to realize for yourself what was true, what wasn't. We were really into it at the Treasury back then. The increase in excise duty in 2009 was a controversial step and I still have no honest answer to whether it paid off or not. But I know that reversibility back would not pay off, that it would have to be exhausted by at least 30% more in the Czech Republic to make it worthwhile. Something like that was unrealistic. That's why we never came to this, and all the expert analysis was right, except for an analysis by a visionary named Ševčík who, after... well, nothing. Just Professor Ševčík. So, of course, I'm not suggesting anything like that. It would be stupid from my point of view. But I don't understand why you pushed for this stupid thing in the last parliamentary term, all of you voted for it here, as I see you - Mr. Dolejš, Sobotka, Zaorálek, everyone voted in favour, everyone promised their constituents how to reduce the excise duty on oil. The YES movement promised its voters in the program how it would reduce the excise tax on diesel, KDU-ČSL promised its voters how to reduce the excise tax on diesel, so that in the finals you could only get to the fact that you wanted to reduce it only for someone, just for a relatively narrow segment of consumers. And as we know, such distortion always has two blades. The advantage for one is discrimination for another. What's a relief for one person, the others have to pay you. Here I must say that I would like to pay my deep respects to Mr Urban, the long-term oil excise tax-abuse fighter - many times we have had a technical and ideal dispute about this - which has remained consistent. I have now noticed in the system that I suspect under number 1080 is again his amendment to the excise duty reduction. I am curious to see how all of you who said it was right will support him, because if you had to express yourself as you promised your constituents, there are about 140 of you who should support Mr Urban's amendment, as Minister Zaorálek, Prime Minister Sobotka and many others did. To show my respect for Mr Urban's proposal, I will also support his amendment, because I know 100% that I cannot bear responsibility in the event of the adoption of the law, the law itself - I cannot vote for it, because I simply cannot raise my hand for such stupidity as green diesel. But Urbanův's courage needs to be appreciated, and I will therefore support his amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u7	Thank you. Before I invite Mr Petr Fiala to the microphone, we must deal with two factual points. I have an electronic application from Mr. Klučka, but I don't see him here. The second in line is Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u8	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to say that the proposal for social democracy is here. I will join him under number 1080 in a detailed debate because we are in this continuous. I hope that the proposal - even on the basis of what the former Minister of Finance said here, that it was a controversial proposal in 2009, and he admitted that he could not honestly say whether they were pluses or were not minuses on the revenue side of the state budget. This is the first time he's admitted it, because before, when we voted on this proposal many times, he threatened to cut state budget revenue. I think that the analyses that were honestly done - by the way, it was not only Professor Ševčík, but it was the result of the work of the University of Economics team - showed that the Czech Republic was losing billions of crowns at that time. If it was three, four or five, we could argue about it, but oil was particularly purchased by foreign transporters outside the Czech Republic. That's why the proposal's here again. I hope that it will not only have 130 or 115 votes to support it, but that it will have 160 votes to support it in the Chamber of Deputies, now that the former Minister of Finance has signed up for it. In a detailed debate, I will rejoin it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u9	Thank you. I would now like to speak to Mr Petr Fiala's microphone and then to Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past, the Civil Democratic Party has benefited from the abolition of this - in quotation marks - because we were convinced that this created unequal market conditions. We continue to believe that. Only a part of the farmers took advantage of the tax return, and especially the small ones, because of the complicated and expensive administration, did not pay the refund application at all, unlike the large producers, whom I will not name here so that I do not needlessly advertise them. [[16.00 hours]] To give some figures, in 2013, the possibility of refunding excise duty to the so-called 58 percent of our farmers have taken advantage of green oil, which is about 13,000 agricultural entrepreneurs. We also abolished the refund of excise duty on green oil because it was a source of tax evasion. There's no way to check whether the oil is being poured into a tractor or into a personal car. If we approve the amendment today, we will reintroduce all these disadvantages. Moreover, it will have a negative impact on the state budget of approximately CZK 1.32 billion per year. I have met a number of private farmers in the past days and weeks who have clearly told me that this is not the kind of policy the state wants. They would much rather not have the state deformed the market with various subsidies and positive discriminations. They even used sentences: The best subsidies would be no subsidies. And this is the type of benefit that is granted only to some who are engaged in agriculture and, above all, to those who are larger and who do not defend the interests of small farmers. We should listen to those for whom we do politics. We should defend, above all, the interests of small farmers on which the traditions of the Czech countryside stand, and we should create a level playing field for them so that they can carry out their activities well. These parameters are not met by the amendment submitted. There are reservations that led us to abolish this "advantage" and therefore, even now, the citizens' democrats will not support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u11	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Votava's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to respond very briefly to Mr Kalousek. When he was talking about how stupid it is today to accept such a proposal, to renew green diesel, I think it's very hypocritical from his mouth, because I remember well what he voted for earlier in the past of a good memory. He voted in favour of green oil. Maybe he even presented it as a minister at the time, I don't want to be wrong. So the epiphany is interesting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u13	Thank you, and now with Mr Kalousek in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u14	Dear rapporteur, I will give you an honest answer. As far as I know, this stupidity is being pushed by the KDU-ČSL Chamber of Deputies today. And I once, for 25 years, as a member of this party, have done some stupid things with my side completely loyally as you do and as many other parties. When there was a lot of that crap, I left the party and started a party where stupid things don't happen anymore. [[Fun in the hall.]] There's nothing hypocritical about that. And I did not express my position on green oil today, but along with other arguments when I left the party in 2009.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u15	Thank you, and now with Mr Kováčik in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, have a good day. Just to the brink of the discussion about green oil, which has been going on for about the 28th time, and on the edge of the performance of dear colleague Fiala: Please nicely, we are talking about everyone with other small, medium and larger farmers. Those farmers, whom I have the honour to meet almost daily, tell me that it is our duty to ensure the best conditions for the competitiveness of our agriculture. Everywhere we talk about food security, food self-sufficiency, non-production and production functions of our agriculture. And it doesn't matter if it's small, medium, big farmer. These functions of agriculture are fulfilled by all farmers without distinction, and I appreciate everyone, that unless we give the conditions, for example, the subsidies, the same, or at least roughly the same as other competing countries as other companies within the European Union, so simply and simply neither large nor medium-sized, nor small farmers can perform their functions. So green oil is something that is forced by circumstances and helps farmers to compete. And if there's any tax anywhere, and I don't know what kind of leak, that's what the authorities have to do to keep an eye on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u17	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and now please to the microphone of Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Meanwhile, I am glad that the debate still has a certain level of culture and culture. After all, I can't help but overreact to a few things that have been said here. First, Prime Minister Fial, my colleague. I would like to say - there are areas I don't understand and I don't even professionally engage in, when I don't know the situation. I wouldn't be into any controversy about the area of higher education, because you're certainly a much bigger expert than I can ever study anything. And as far as agriculture and the green oil-related area are concerned, and with the way it is administratively demanding for those small farmers, I will tell you that as a person who has been growing up since I was a kid, I have managed for eleven years myself, of which I have been filing tax returns for at least six years under the so-called tax system. green diesel, so it is a matter that takes you a number of tens of minutes including sending a form to customs. And the refund, the money you get back from the state, is worth it. And really, it's not an issue that's administratively complicated. These figures, which you are stating, concern, say, about fifty percent of agricultural entities, are given by the fact that statistics are largely distorted by the fact that today we have in this statistics entities which have an order of one two hectares, whose primary agricultural production is not the subject of their main activity, is not the main source of their income, they are only registered and registered. In that case, the statistics are really deformed and it is necessary to look at it correctly. Perhaps a brief statement on Mr Kalousek's former colleague. I'd just hate for him to be here in, like, ten years to say how terribly wrong he was at TOP 09 and then have to start a new political party. So just be real careful now and make the right decisions. And never change your political attitudes and opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u19	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Kalousek's microphone. After that, Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u20	I'm sorry, I can't help but respond to President Kováčik. However, before that, Minister, let me say to you that I firmly hope that by talking about Professor Fial as your colleague, you did not take too much time. Here I think you need to appreciate your generous nobleness, and I understand that in that context you spoke of me as a former colleague. However, President Kováčik said that our farmers are concerned with competitiveness, and that is undoubtedly true, but do not tell me, Mr President, through Madam President, that they are concerned about the instrument. It's about the money. They want the 1.4 billion that will boost their competitiveness. I understand that. And here again, I repeat to the government that it has that possibility within the relatively generous spending it plans for the next few years in the state budget, and it does not have to have a distortion of the tax system. And President Kováčik said that's what the control authorities are for. But the control authorities and their controls are some kind of cost. And those costs are completely unnecessary. If the distortion didn't exist, there wouldn't be anything to control. That 1.4 billion can be paid in any other way. It's just a thing that they're not able to understand and that lacks any logic. It's really nothing more than a symbol: we promised you to fight back the green oil, so we're going to win it for you. So while you could politely say, we think you have the right to the extra 1.4 billion, we'll give it to you. [[16.10 hours]] Now I've heard a lot of beautiful talk about how tax evasion is excluded, because strict standards are set for each type of field work. But please, gentlemen, agricultural experts, which I am not, Minister and Chairman Faltýnek, when was the last time these parameters were updated? If you don't know, I'll tell you. 15 years ago. Minister, you are a far more experienced tractor than I am. You must know that over the past 15 years, agricultural technology has made a huge step forward and that fuel consumption 15 years ago and today is quite different and that the way the technology hits the landscape 15 years ago and today is quite different. So what are you trying to do here? To the Chamber of Deputies and the public to tell how accurate normals are without escape is the exact sum of inaccurate numbers that have not been valid for 15 years. I'm afraid you're making a slight mistake with the Chamber of Deputies here. Not slightly, but a lot. But it's not even the most important thing. The most important thing is that you open the door to tax evasion. And here I want to say again that I don't think the small farmers are gonna do it at all. Those who look forward to it the most, which are really the small farmers, I do not suspect that they are looking forward to selling green oil and how they will grease on green escapes. But we all know those big farmers from Wenceslas. We all know those owners of huge agricultural areas who haven't managed in their lives, who knows if they've ever pulled their heels out of town, and for them, this tax distortion will be a huge opportunity to think deeply about how to invent tax evasion there. And I assure you, they're usually faster in their thinking than we are. Because they have the criminal brains. In the Chamber of Deputies, these criminal brains only occur sporadically. Just because even the brains occur only sporadically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u21	Thank you. Before I invite Mr Bendl to the microphone, I have Mr Kováčik's point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u22	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Faltýnek said I shouldn't focus on it. [[Fun in the hall.]] So I'm just looking at the account of my colleague Kalousek's reaction to the audit authorities. I think that customs, tax administration and the Police of the Czech Republic, and the whole system of law enforcement agencies is not something that would only be here specifically because of green oil. And if we don't have this, as my colleague Kalousek says, distortion, then we have other distortions that these authorities are definitely and continuously addressing and some dramatic increases in the cost of the control mechanism I don't think they could be. But I ask my colleague Kalousek and the others who voted in favour of the abolition of green oil, what other compensation mechanism we will invent for our farmers, and I completely agree, although it is with wonder, Mr Kalousek, that those so-called farmers from Wenceslas would not be compensated and any other mechanisms that should record something to them, simply do not belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u23	Thank you. Now, please get to Mr. Bendl's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I originally did not want to speak on this subject. But when we really talk about what would help farmers, I'm also convinced that it's not exactly the green oil. That this is not absolutely crucial for Czech agriculture. And even Minister Jurečka must know that no one will ever measure exactly how much I pour into the tractor and how much I pour into the car. He must know well that it is and that it pays most to those who need the oil most. And that there are things that are immeasurable. And that if we really want to help Czech agriculture, then I also answer to Pavel Kováčik, through the President that there are clear priorities for Czech agriculture and that it is not green oil - that it is a struggle with drought, that it is the support of animal production, that the instruments are here and that it is possible to take these funds. And if the government is willing to put them at their disposal, it's supposed to put them on priorities that are indisputable, not priorities where straw looks out of shoes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u25	Thank you. Now please get to the microphone of Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Really short, just a few facts. First of all, I'm glad that this discussion is still cultivated and that I've moved from being a pig pimp to a tractor. I thank my colleague for that. [[A round of applause for part of the Coalition Members.]] However, what has been said here. I'd just like to say, let's have some pure wine. There are arguments falling over and over again that we can give these funds to farmers differently. There are some grant titles mentioned here. I would like to draw attention to one thing. Every grant title has to be administered by someone, someone has to control it. And even in the case of grant titles, there is considerable potential for possible abuse. So we're really measuring things that aren't measurable, and it needs to be said that even this way has its, let's say, kind of a perverted face and negative. Then there's the consumption and certain normalities. If I'm not mistaken, and I'm going to find out, colleague Kalousek, those calculations were made sometime in 2005, but I'd be happy to deliver them to you. I would like to say that the customs administration has long-term statistics in its programmes, where I know this from experience today, if the farm proves and claims suddenly a greater return on green oil than it was in the past, it is immediately called on to justify it. For example, whether he increased the area or has a crop. I know from experience, from practice, that he's not the space that we've been talking about here, the mythical space that there's so much potential for tax evasion, he's far from what you're talking about. I'm not saying there isn't one. In any case, where public money goes, there is room for abuse. But here I would really say you're exaggerating the problem in a huge way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u27	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Before I launch a detailed debate, I will read several apologies. The meeting on Wednesday, July 16th at 10.30pm is apologized for the foreign business trip of Deputy Prime Minister for Science, Research and Innovation, Mr.Pavel Bělobrádek. She also apologizes for today's meeting between 16 and 17 o'clock, and from tomorrow's meeting after 13 o'clock until the end of the day, for Adamová of work, Mrs Zelienková apologizes. I am now initiating a detailed debate. I'm registering Mr Urban's application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to subscribe to the House document which is introduced in the system as an amendment under number 1080. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-15-ps2013-012-01-004-003.u29	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate. I ask the appellant if he is interested in the final words. [[No.]] The rapporteur? [[No.]] Okay. I therefore end the second reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to item 4. That's what it is.
