ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-016-046.u1	46. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 107/1999 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, as amended /German press 154/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House press 154/1. On the Senate's authority, Senator Martin, Miroslav Nenutil, will present the bill. [[The senator is ready at the speaker's desk, turning to the Vice-President and warning him: Miroslav]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I messed up. But before you speak, Senator, I ask that Mr Stanislav Grospič, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, take his place at the rapporteur's table. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-016-046.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Members, the bill tabled is the result of an ongoing evaluation of the functioning of the Senate Rules of Procedure Act, both in parliamentary practice and in line with changing legislation. Part of the proposal also reflects the fact that the previous attempt to amend the Senate's Rules of Procedure was closely linked to the proposed amendment to your Rules of Procedure, i.e. the Chamber of Deputies, which was not accepted. Therefore, in this proposed amendment to the Senate's Rules of Procedure of the previous proposal, only the amendment of the Institute does not deal with the draft law and the obligation to submit amendments in writing and with a justification. Later, as you will hear, we also deal with legal measures. Let me briefly introduce you to the most fundamental changes that the senators have therefore approved for their Rules of Procedure. The proposal contains an amendment to the Senate voting procedure on the proposal under consideration not to deal with the draft law contained in Section 107 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. It is proposed to supplement that statutory provision in such a way that the proposed bill should not be dealt with at a meeting of the Senate if at least one Senator's club or group of at least ten senators objects to such a proposal. The right of veto conferred on the Senate minority in the present case is intended to serve as a safeguard against the elimination of the debate by a Senate majority. The Senate minority is thus guaranteed the possibility of acting on the Senate majority as well as on the public. In the next part, the amendment concerns that it establishes an obligation to make every amendment tabled to the bill, respectively. on the proposal for a legal measure of the Senate or a draft Senate bill, it was submitted in writing and with a justification for its content. Then we would also get to the rules of the Senate's deliberations on the proposals returned by the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate for completion, which are now contained in the Senate resolution number 516 of 9 August 2006, which was incorporated into the Senate's Rules of Procedure Act. Finally, the proposal includes an amendment to the existing model of the Senator's card contained in Annex No 1 to the Senate Rules of Procedure, which deletes the reference to the now abolished right of the legislature, in this case the Senator, to the free use of public public transport resources. The Senate proposal also deals with the handling of petitions. So far, 10,000 signatures have been set. If the petition has less than 10,000 signatures, it will be discussed by the committee responsible. If it has more than 10,000 signatures, then citizens are guaranteed to discuss their petition at the Senate meeting. Other submissions by citizens - submissions that are not petitions - then, according to the nature of the matter, the committee to which it is responsible for the handling of petitions shall either deal with the matter itself or transmit them to relevant committees or committees, or shall refer them to the competent authorities or institutions and inform the writer of the processing or referral. As far as legal measures are concerned, the current provision is that if the legal measure is to be amended, then the meeting of the Senate must be suspended and discussed after 24 hours. Following the experience of the autumn of last year, the Rules of Procedure contain a proposal for a change, where only legislative technical changes are involved, then the meeting need not be interrupted for this reason. Ladies and gentlemen, so much in a nutshell of basic changes that have passed the Senate. Since this concerns actually tightening the terms of the Senate's negotiations, I believe that there will be no great distaste for this, or that you will rather allow the Senate's Rules of Procedure to be supplemented by what I have introduced you to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-016-046.u3	Thank you, Senator Miroslav Nenutil. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Stanislav Grospič, with his news report. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-016-046.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Senator, honourable members of the government and colleagues, allow me to join you briefly after the speech of the petitioner with my intelligence report on the bill submitted, which is the amendment of the Senate Rules of Procedure Act, which we received under press number 154. I would like to say that, according to the petitioners, the draft bill is the result of an ongoing evaluation of the Senate's Rules of Procedure and responds to the most excruciating problems that the senators feel in the course of their negotiations. It all seems to be a technical standard that responds to some shortcomings, which in particular resulted in a period when the Senate was faced with the question of discussing the draft so-called Senate legal measures at a time when the Chamber of Deputies was dissolved. However, these headings are limited to about three, to four areas, with the fact that the most important thing is to deal with the amendment of the Senate's Rules of Procedure... It is found by the petitioners that it is an adjustment to a certain modification not to dwell on a bill that is related to the attempt to preserve the possibility of debate, which is a particular relevant minority in the Senate, which is limited to the very ten senators or to the Senate's parliamentary club. [[Senatorial]] It then concerns the area of proposed changes relating to the Senate's deliberations, the already mentioned Senate legal measures, where certain wordings are specified in terms of the requirements of the Senate's legal measures, that this area, unlike the draft legal provisions, was not bound by such certain pregnant rules. It should be seen that the third heading is an obligatory written form of justification for amendments, which will be mandatory in the Senate in the event of their submission. And from the perspective of adapting the Senate's Rules of Procedure, it is also the inclusion of such various rules, which are linked to a certain discussion of inter-ministerial changes within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. [[unintelligible]] [[17.50 hours]] What is essential and fairly extensive is the whole part that belongs to the way in which petitions are dealt with by the Senate, where the committee responsible for the hearing of petitions is required to be set up, and that committee could not, in future, be able to exercise its right by passing it on to another state authority or to another Senate body, and if a procedural reason were to arise there, it would always have to decide on petitions and on these matters in the future by the Senate plenary. I think that this proposal will certainly raise a debate here in the Chamber of Deputies or, at least, on the Constitutional Legal Committee, but from the perspective of the intelligence report, I would like to say that I recommend it to be released at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-016-046.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his report and open a general debate. I have Mr. František Laudát's application for it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-016-046.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would ask the petitioner, it didn't come out here when he interferes in the way of the upper or lower chamber, it's always a sensitive thing, there's a danger of rolling. What you're putting here is a consensual proposal, or whether it was pushed through a majority, whether some clubs voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-016-046.u7	Thank you. I have no other application for a debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. I assume the senator will want to answer the question of his colleague Laudát. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-016-046.u8	I can say yes, it's based on, I guess, three-year work by the Constitutional Commission and Parliamentary procedures. It's not a matter of the last few months. I must say that the proposal was originally even more stringent and more extensive, but after, I believe, a double renegotiation of the Commission and the Constitutional Committee has taken place. And according to the Senate vote, it's obvious that it's not a close victory for the majority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-11-ps2013-010-02-016-046.u9	Thank you. The rapporteur's final statement. He's not interested. Thank you. Since there have been no proposals that we could vote on, neither on return nor on rejection, we will be dealing with the commandments of the committee for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for consideration to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote only on this proposal, by voting 43, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 43, registered by 151 Members for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the committee with constitutional law and the time limit for the hearing remains under the Rules of Procedure Act for 60 days. Thank you, Mr Senator, thank you, rapporteur, and I finish point 46. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with this point.
