ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-010-059.u1	59. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, concerning European satellite navigation programmes /house printing 137/ - second reading I ask that the Minister of the Environment take the floor again. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-010-059.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that after what Mrs Němcová has said, I have seriously considered myself to do something about myself, but believe me, the House meeting is so crucial to me that I am handling both things together. [[Let's hear it.]] I'm gonna try to make a deal with the Prime Minister about some satisfaction and Christmas rewards, but I've tried it once before and it's not quite a success, so I hope you'll support me in this. Allow me to speak from this position this time for the Minister of Transport. Here I think that this is partly justified, even because Minister Ťok, the new Minister of Transport, was only a few moments ago appointed as Mr. President at the Castle, so he will definitely attend the next meeting and will not leave me behind. I have a bunch of points today, so I'm gonna try not to hold you up. So let me introduce you to the proposal to approve the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Swiss Confederation, on the other hand, concerning European satellite navigation programmes. Cooperation agreements in the field of satellite navigation shall be negotiated with countries which, from a global point of view, participate significantly in the space programme and have high-quality technologies. The purpose of the agreement presented is to ensure that Switzerland is closely involved in the phases of the construction and operation of European programmes of global satellite navigation systems Galileo and EGNOS. Switzerland's involvement in the European Global Navigation Satellite System Programme is considered politically and economically very beneficial and appropriate. Switzerland is, we know, the closest partner of the European Union to cooperation within the Galileo programme from its beginning. It contributes politically, technically and financially to all phases of the Galileo programme through its membership of the European Space Agency and through its informal participation in the management structures designated for the Galileo programme. This agreement will give cooperation a formal character. The Cooperation Agreement was signed by the Minister of Transport on 5 December last year in Brussels. The agreement is in accordance with constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, with obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union and with other commitments entered into under the applicable treaties. I would like to ask you here to give my consent to ratify this agreement and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-010-059.u3	I thank you, Minister, and please the rapporteur of Mr René Číp's foreign committee, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 137/1. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-010-059.u4	Thank you for the floor. As the Universal Minister Brabec has already said here, this is essentially something that we can be proud of, on the contrary, right now, that can even help blind fellow citizens. I would like to read the Foreign Committee's resolution. At its 10th meeting on 21 May 2014, the Foreign Committee discussed the agreement in question and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, concerning European satellite navigation programmes'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-010-059.u5	I thank you and open a debate in which I do not register any application. Isn't that right? That is the case, I am done with the debate. I wonder if the Minister wants to take the final floor. [[No.]] The rapporteur? It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the resolution proposed by the Foreign Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? We have a vote number 33, Members of Parliament and Members 153, on proposal 138. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. That concludes the discussion of this. We've got two minutes to go. Since we have voting points on 12.30, I would no longer open another point so that we do not have to interrupt it during its deliberations, and we would proceed directly to these electoral points if no one objects to this procedure. It's not like that. [[12.30 hours]] In that case, we will proceed to voting points that are firmly included. The first will be
