ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u1	17. Proposal by Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Petr Adam, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Marek Černoch, Karel Fiedler, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Jaroslav Holík, David Kádner, Martin Lank, Karel Pražák, Milan Šarapatka and Jiří Štětina for the issue of the constitutional law on the national referendum and amending the Constitution of the Czech Republic /German press 114/ - first reading We are at first reading of the interrupted debate. I will ask both the appellant and the rapporteur to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I interrupted the debate at the point where Mr Seďa asked for a factual comment. I ask the honourable Member if he still asks for a factual comment. [[He's asking.]] Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. [[Noise in the hall, some of the Members are leaving the O.R.]] I'll ask the House of Honor for peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to comment on three brief comments on Mr Okamur, through you. First remark. Get used to it, my colleague, that a different opinion is common in every democratic debate. And it is also common in every democratic parliament, whether you like it or not. Second point. The difference between the Dawn of Direct Democracy of Tomio Okamura and the other political parties represented in this Chamber of Deputies is that we want to respect, respect and respect the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. And the third point. Please do not put into my mouth or any Social Democrat's mouth that we are against the referendum. We just have a different opinion about the amendment you're making. Deal with it, but please don't attack us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u3	Thank you, Mr Seďa. With another factual remark, Mr Stanislav Polčák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I merely wanted to comment on the margo of what has been put forward here, because President Okamura says so, and he is openly saying that this is a proposal that is a copy of the proposal that promoted social democracy. In this situation, it must be said that this is an interesting alternative to some extent, because, of course, in this logic, fellow Members of social democracy should support such a proposal. I remember when I was the rapporteur even of the standard that we are talking about here, i.e. the Constitutional Act on the National referendum, how from the same positions colleagues from social democracy supported this proposal. And basically, if it's actually written down, in the Middle Ages it was true that by writing down a certain knowledge, you only proved that you had that knowledge. Today, it's basically an unfortunate activity. But in that sense, this is a pretty good political trick by President Okamura. I commend him for this, and I am really interested in how the Social Democracy Club will behave on this issue, because as rapporteur, I remember that the bill they submitted at the time is really identical to what the representatives of the Dawn movement have now submitted. So I'm wondering, social democracy colleagues, how you're gonna deal with this. It is quite a good idea from the Dawn movement, but I will not vote in favour of the referendum in this form even then or today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u5	Thank you, honourable Member. With another proper application, Mr Jaroslav Lobkowicz. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have long thought about the referendum. I think the referendum is a brilliant idea worth thinking about. About a year ago, I spoke about this with the former Swiss ambassador, because here we often turn to Switzerland, as there is a good referendum. The Swiss Ambassador warned me back then. He said, "Yes, we have had democracy here since 1848," as my colleague said before me. That means 1848, now we have 2014, that's about... 170 years. In that time, all the laws have matured there, and they don't have to change much anymore. Only such essential questions come up on the show: You want a longer vacation - a shorter vacation, you want a stranger - you don't want strangers and stuff like that. These are very simple questions that people can answer. That's a brilliant idea. A genius idea is always a problem that no one understands for a long time, because when something is genius, most people don't understand it. I think we should also put in place a referendum with us. But what I'm asking is, are we ready for this? Switzerland has democracy, like I said, 170 years old. We have a permanent democracy here - because there was a war, everything was possible when democracy was not - let's say since 1990, i.e. Only 24 years. I don't want to wait 160 years as Švýcar, because today's time goes faster. And if we were to say that the law wouldn't apply until, say, 2060, 2070, that would probably be okay. Until then, people will grow up and I think they will appreciate referendums. So I guess that's what I was gonna say. And if there's a detailed debate, it's been on the proposal of a law in force since 2070. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Lank. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. After her, the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u8	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have to thank my predecessor because he said what I basically agree with. The fact is that Swiss society is really somewhere else other than Czech society. But I see it a little differently. I take the referendum as an instrument that is, in a way, educational for citizens, because they suddenly have reason to be interested in politics. So far, they haven't had much of those reasons, because they've chosen something, somehow it's decided, and they have nothing left but to accept it. That means if we want to achieve the quality of Swiss society someday, we have to start someday! Even the Švýcar had to start with that one day. It wasn't so sudden - now we have a referendum. That means, let's think of it as one of the tools so we can have the company someday. And the sooner we start, the sooner we really get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Okamura. Please take your word for it, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only very briefly. First, through the President to Mr Lobkowicz. Thank you for supporting the referendum. And I would just like to point out that in the last 20 years, we have had the most engineers, lawyers and doctors in the Chamber of Deputies, if I have the right information. And this in the quotes of the elite, which the opponents of the referendum here say is more intelligent than the ordinary citizen, has made a country with a balanced budget 20 years ago, or even with a surplus, a country that is indebted completely to its ears. On the contrary, these educated people stole the land so sophisticatedly that we can't even trace the billions in Switzerland! It's the opposite, folks! If ordinary people were to decide here and some little thief pulled his wallet out of our pocket, we wouldn't be tracking it somewhere in Switzerland, but this is how we grab him by the collar and take him to the police. That's it. That means, the state after you say you're an elite and the citizen is stupid, it's not so, folks. I have to say that after 20 years, the condition can never get worse, it can only be the same, preferably better. And the second thing, by your means, Mr President, to Mr Polčák. Well, I am pleased that the former President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, whom you yourself have chosen in the House as President of the Constitutional Legal Committee in the past period, has expressed a positive opinion on our proposal for a referendum. And so it is really appropriate for his question to be answered by the ČSSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u11	Thank you, Mr Okamur. His speech made two factual remarks. Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Polčák and then Minister Dienstbier came forward for the debate. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u12	Mr President, I want to respond by your means to Mr Okamura's statement that there were no debts in this country 20 years ago. I wanted to start with the sentence that it looks like we lived in a different country at the time. But that could be considered a personal invective. So I'm just saying it mentally. [[18.10 hours]] Twenty years ago, when this new democratic regime began in this country, I lived in a city whose historical core was absolutely at hand, the internal debt of all infrastructure and many other things were huge - just not anywhere in the economic statements. I would ask that we do not really use populism of this type that this state's debt was zero at the time. The internal debt, which may not have been in the economic statements and which has been seen all around us, was huge, and in the sense of someone with a bit of historical memory, he is aware of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u13	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Polčák, followed by Mr Černoch, with a factual remark. After him, Minister Dienstbier and then Mr. Speaker. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Given the scale of the factual remarks, I will try to be brief. No, President Okamura, through the Vice-President, I do not support your proposal. But I consider it a pretty good political trick that you used, and I don't criticize it. On the contrary, I think it's quite an interesting method to convict social democracy of being wrong a few years ago. Because if he rejects the motion today, it will prove that we were right about those few years ago when we rejected the proposal for the same reasons, about three years ago. So, in this sense, through the Vice-President, I appreciate you for putting social democracy into an undoubtedly difficult role and at least proving that we were right back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u15	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say by your means to Mr Polčák and Mr Lobkowicz that I appreciate the views they have said. That they said what they thought. But it was said several times here a moment ago that the Dawn presented itself with pasquila and so on. And since it has also been said that this proposal has already been put forward by social democracies, I would just like to ask if social democracies are also presenting pasquilis, which they know will not pass.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual point - is that a factual point or a proper one? Really, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really short, because it is already the second invector for my origin. I find it truly awkward and awkward! It was last week through Mr President Mrs Rujbrová of the KSČM and now Mr Novotný of the ODS. That level is really awful. Your level, folks! So I will definitely clarify my origin for the next three or four years. I've only been in Japan for less than ten years. I graduated from the entire primary school and secondary school in the Czech Republic. And even, since my dad was half Korejec and half Japonec, I'm a majority after mommy, half, Moravák of Bystřice under Hostyn. And I have Czech citizenship almost completely since I was born. So I'm 41, 32 years old in the Czech Republic, after Mom Moravák, still bloody majority, so I hope we can finally figure this out. And those disgusting racist and xenophobic innuendos of Mr Novotný and Mrs Rujbrová, if I am already Čech or such talk, please forgive yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u19	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Mr. Secretary, he won't get to you right away. I have three factual points to make. [[Dienstbiere]] So, Mr. Rom Kostřica. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u20	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond and ask through the Vice-President of the Parties certain invectives about employment or the prevailing profession of current or past Members. I am not just saying this because I am a doctor, but rather I wanted to ask what led Mr Okamura to become a member of the Dawn during the election period, in quotation marks, former TOP 09 Member of Professor Aleš Roztočil. They're doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u21	I thank Mr Kostřic. With another factual remark, Mr Polčák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u22	I just want to clarify - thank you, Mr Vice-President, for giving the floor - that social democracy has put forward a number of these proposals. So when I saw that my colleagues, I feel like they were comparing the two adjustments from my fellow Dawn to theirs, so they made at least two proposals in the last term of the election. Therefore, House press number 8 from the last parliamentary term must also be examined. And then it was the House press, I think, number 512. Meaning you were serious about the effort? You've made some suggestions for the adjustment. I am merely stating that there were several proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u23	I thank Mr Polčák. With another factual remark, Mr Martin Novotný. And that should be the end of this collision of factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr President Okamura to read the tapestry of my speech and try to understand the content of my introductory sentence. 'Cause she was exactly the opposite type to what he thought she was. And it was said directly that such sentences could be interpreted as some kind of personal attack. And I don't want it to come out that way. All I was talking about was that we probably all lived in different countries, in the way we perceived the country. If we saw this country after 1989 just like a country that has no debts, which is absolutely fine and which this democratic representation has brought into a disastrous situation. I've probably lived in a different country than you, because I have no sentiment and the need to go back to this time. I think that its internal debt is factual, not only that which is in some paper figures, was infinitely greater than the country's internal debt in 2014. You just have to take a look at it, and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u25	Thank you, honourable Member. And now with priority rights, Minister Dienstbier. Please, Minister, it's finally yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u26	Mr Vice-President, Madame Members, the claim that the bill tabled and discussed is identical to the law which put forward social democracy in the last parliamentary term is a lie! What is identical is a certain skeleton of the division of the law, but of course the content is fundamentally different. This draft constitutional law, which is being discussed, allows, for example, the Constitution to be amended in a referendum. This was excluded by the proposal for social democracy. This bill makes it possible to vote in a referendum on the appeal of anyone in any capacity, of his appeal. This explicitly excluded the proposal for social democracy. The proposal for social democracy explicitly excluded that a referendum should be held on matters which would entail an adjustment of tax, fee or other payment obligations. If Mr Okamura claims that he has copied a proposal for social democracy, then for God's sake, let him at least learn to copy! Otherwise, all the proposals put forward by it are absolutely tragic from a legislative technical point of view. This draft constitutional law is a fundamental threat to constitutionality and I dare say that democracy in the Czech Republic, because if it were approved, it is possible to immediately call for a vote, for example, on the abolition of the Chamber of Deputies. The abolition of the government as a constitutional institution. This bill allows legislative or executive powers to be delegated to any other body. The only limit is called. a constitutional core that is incorruptible. The question of what it is can be a very loose interpretation. This means that, like some other proposals put forward by Mr Okamura and the Co., this is a fundamental threat to the democratic rule of law in the Czech Republic. And I would like no one to say that this is the same thing that social democracy has ever presented here in the past. [[18.20 hours]] In this sense, I would also like to reassure Mr Polčák. This is a fundamentally different proposal qualitatively. This is, in fact, a very dangerous asshole and, on the one hand, a dangerous threat to democracy in this republic. Otherwise, I would like to assure you that not only social democracy, which repeatedly makes a proposal for the adoption of the Constitutional Act on a general referendum in each period, but in this case also the Czech Government in the coalition treaty and in the programming declaration, has committed itself to pushing forward - but good - the draft Constitutional Act on a general referendum after many years. We will present this in a relatively short period of time and, of course, we will be looking for a wider consensus than just at coalition level. But I would like such dangerous bastards not to be interpreted as identical to the proposals put forward here in the past by social democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u27	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore a good thing, through the President, that the Minister has awakened and put something in my mouth that I have not said at all, which is what the people who have been in the House here, unlike you, Minister, so they know that I have not said at all that we have copied it from you. I just said we're based on your design, and we modified the parameters. That means, I think that's what Mr. Polčák here said, but I didn't. That means it would be good to be on time and not put words in my mouth that I personally didn't say. That's one thing. And the other dirty saliva, you, through the President, think of yourself as a great lawyer, so you've had almost twenty years, or how long you've been a member of the ČSSD, an opportunity to present it so as to make it public. That means I have practically nothing more to say about that. Show off, make your proposal within a year, or even sooner, and we'll see. And I promise you again, because we're going to make a positive move. Put forward your proposal for a referendum, the Dawn strives for it, we will not politicize, and we will certainly be happy to support it, and we will discuss it positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u29	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Fiala, Mr Tejc. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u30	Thank you for the floor. So I am also glad that Minister Dienstbier admitted that we were based on the proposals of social democracy. Of course we changed the parameters, but you can read from the log that we said here that we changed the parameters and that the parameters should be part of the diaper at second reading where we want to fix them. But that's what the referendum is about. And, of course, even if it doesn't pass, as if I feel that behind the words of a scumbag, a pasquil that keeps repeating itself at every moment, it's an attempt not to accept any bill of referendum and rather to remain in a representative democracy for the influence of political parties. I understand that, I understand that, but we, Minister through Mr President, will try to improve this proposal and, of course, re-submit it for the 18th and 20th time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. Before I give the floor to Mr Tejc, I will also apologise to Mr Jiří Koskuba and Mr Martin Komárek for health and work reasons from 18.15. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to set some things straight. Social democracy has always voted in favour of the referendum here and we have always been in favour of the proposal being adopted, and after all, it was us who tabled a draft constitutional bill on the referendum between the first three laws in the last parliamentary term. One of them was about abolishing medical fees, one was about introducing a direct election, and the third was about to introduce a referendum. The proposal really is not, as Mr Polčák said, the same, which means we are not voting on the same proposal that we have advocated in the past, which is in a different form. And I am glad that, whether there are opinions on quality or on a specific proposal, that there is enough in the Chamber of Deputies, in my opinion, to approve such a bill in that principle, and I hope that after the Senate elections, probably after the next elections, this proposal will reach the Senate, the three-fifth majority will also be there. I believe that such a crucial thing as a referendum when, unlike the last House, there is a will to adopt such a law, it should come from the government, it should be guaranteed by government legislation, unless, of course, this matter is postponed, and I believe that we will be able to prepare such a proposal within a few months, and I believe that even the Dawn colleagues will be able to intervene, and if the government prepares such a bill, I am in favour of adopting it. And, of course, if the government does not develop any activity in this matter within a year or two, I will be the one who will vote in favour of any proposal that goes to second reading. [[Time!]] But forgive me for not supporting such a proposal now, given that I do not identify with all the parameters of the law, but in principle support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u33	Thank you, Mr Tejc. Now, with a proper application, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u34	Thank you, Mr President. So now, colleagues and colleagues, good evening. I've been taking notes from the previous speakers, so I'm gonna have a little complicated. I'm hoping to get into it. I didn't make any preparations for this performance. I'm gonna take point by point, and I hope I don't get too involved. It has already been said here, I don't know which speaker it was from, that they have had a direct democracy in Switzerland for 170 years and that they are a little farther than we are. So am I to understand that in 10 years we're gonna be standing here saying, "In Switzerland, direct democracy is 180 years old"? And in 30 years, we're gonna say, "In Switzerland, they've had a direct democracy for 200 years, and we're not ready to accept it"? That's the tactic? Are we still gonna push this off? I think the sooner we adopt this law, this proposal, the better it will be for this society and this country. When this bill began to be discussed, this House was literally half empty. Was it meant to be an expression of how Members who were not here are building on this rather fundamental bill, the members of the government coalition, who have it in their government statement that they will enforce this proposal? The rapporteur here spoke of a change in a balanced representative democracy. I don't know how balanced this democracy is. The democracy is balanced unilaterally, that the House decides everything, the representatives decide everything, and the people, the voters, can only decide something once every four years. Otherwise, that right is denied to them. And direct democracy is supposed to be an extension of representative democracy. Have you, colleagues, not yet understood that this is not the initial article of democracy, that it is to be an extension of representative democracy? So that citizens can use it when they are not satisfied with the functioning of representative democracy. It's very simple! So don't scare the citizens by having any referendums all the time, that there will be a constant vote on something. In order for this referendum not to be here all the time, it is simple against this, so in quotation marks simple, defence. Let us do in this House as our voters wish! Let us act in such a way as to ensure that this country's debts do not grow, so that citizens' dissatisfaction does not grow. There will be no referendums, there will be no appeal! There was also a proposal, I think it was from someone in the government, I no longer know that the proposal is not sufficiently linked to the Constitution. I can't agree with that either. Instead of making arguments here and convincing yourself that it is and that it isn't, make your own views. The Constitution of the Czech Republic, the head of the first article 2 - this has already been said: The people are the source of all state power. I stress all state powers. Article 2 says: Yes, a constitutional law can determine when the people exercise state power directly. Article 3 says: State power serves all citizens, not 200 Members. And it can only be applied in cases within the limits and in ways that the law provides. [[18.30 hours]] Several of you previous speakers here remembered the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The Constitution of the Czech Republic also includes the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. So let's see what the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms says. Title 1 Article 1: People are free and equal in dignity and in rights. Fundamental rights and freedoms are inalienable, inalienable, inalienable and inalienable. Article 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms says: Fundamental rights and freedoms are guaranteed to all without distinction. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Where do you get the right to take those citizens' decisions directly? Where do you get the right to put yourself above them that the 200 Members are more chosen, they are more equal than those Members? Dear colleagues, this is contrary to the text of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms: Citizens have the right to participate directly in governance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u35	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'd like to lower the noise level. Thank you, colleagues. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u36	Thank you, Mr President. So if we've been operating here for a few years, 20 years, we're legal in the Constitution, and we don't have it, okay, we don't have it. Well, let's finally fix it. I am now turning to my colleagues from social democracy. You have said here several times that you have submitted these laws, that you have been working on it, so I think you have this issue well worked out, and I see no reason that should prevent us, if necessary, from proposing to the Dawn Parliamentary Club, or from making amendments to it, because, according to what you have claimed, you have done it well and for a long time. I really do not understand why we are to postpone the release of this law into second reading and its approval. The fact that direct democracy is an extension of that representative democracy, that's what I've said here. Citizens - was an election campaign. The Dawn Movement, I dare say, was the leader, the first political body to come up with the idea of direct democracy and referendums in this election campaign. The other parties have added to this, although yes, the Social Democrats have already passed this law several times. In the election campaign, you promised voters that direct democracy, so I'm sure you knew you had an idea of what it should look like, what parameters it should have. And I'm afraid that in the election campaign, you promised those voters bone ham, and now I'm worried that you just want to throw them that gorgeous bone, that the direct democracy, their rights to express yourself about what's going on in this state, you want to make a good and neat demeanor, which I think, as I mentioned earlier, is in a number of ways at odds not only with the Constitution, but especially with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. It was also said that the State needed taxes, that it provided services. I can't agree with that. But I have to say that, unfortunately, it also ensures the debt of those citizens now and in the future. And I don't think those citizens would allow themselves to get more and more indebted. And at the end of the last thing that is not directly related to this, I do not like to say it here, but nevertheless, direct democracy and its use, and now answer yourself, transfer to Kiev on the square, as the situation in Kiev would look today, if the citizens of Ukraine had the opportunity to reach for direct democracy and resolve these matters democratically directly, perhaps as they wanted, they would probably call it off without bloodshed. It's beautiful, I think, the possibility of using a direct democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In addition to the proper debate, Mr Laudát is signed up. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't hold up too long. It's kind of like this, well, something in the air. Mr Okamura spoke about this at the beginning, or I feel that Mr Fiala from ODS, that an analysis has actually been carried out of countries where they already have a referendum that there is greater prosperity, greater democracy. I would beg, because I suppose that today, in the first reading, the proposal of Members of the Dawn will be rejected, but the coalition promises to come in some time with a new proposal, I would ask them very much to be careful and have a great deal of work to process the thorough analysis that will take place in practice. I do not feel that when I had some kind of analysis of a relatively long period in a number of countries, it was about thirty years, between 1971 and 2003, where there were possible referendums, how many were there, that there was a direct link between political stability, the prosperity of the society, the quality of democracy. Unlike others, I may not be so enthusiastic about Swiss democracy. I was really fascinated, I didn't read, I don't know the details, but if a young judge quickly gets to condemn some huge financial case in a relatively short period of time, and when there's 12-14 billion flying around, she puts 16 in there and says "everything falls to the Swiss state because he suffered such damage," there's something wrong with me. So I'm not so sure. It's a very specific company. However, if we go through those states where there are a lot of referendums and whether or not there is prosperity. Thus, Switzerland had a total of 292 referendums during that period of thirty years, 1971 to 2003. There's a huge tradition, probably the biggest in the world. From the analysis where there may be almost 50 states, it's by far the most, it's completely out of control. And I don't think the Swiss Federation has slowed down at that rate. They're fine, but I don't think it's because of referendums. Now I may be able to get into my own traps, because there are some unpopular things that they have to do to meet the countries of the European Union. This was done by the United States, which dealt with them substantially more harshly, and with their financial methods, see UBS Bank and the role of its branches, residency in the United States, huge fines received, further proceedings. For example, Italy, which is also among the top countries, had 57 referendums in that period. We ourselves know that the quality of democracy there is not good, that at one point, there was literally a political scene under the influence of the mob, corruption of gigantic proportions, that there is a problem of opening scissors between the north and the south, that today's generation, the previous year it was 38 percent of people after learning and after studying, it is out of work, it is on the street, the whole young generation can now calculate that it will not reach the standard of life of their fathers, so it is a completely diametrically different situation. At the same time, there are very numerous referendums. Liechtenstein is another which has a huge number of referendums, but I am not clear and I would ask those who will submit further proposals, why - and it is a number of other developed countries, which, in the last interval from which I have the analysis, have actually started saving referendums. [[18.40 hours]] And I don't know why they got into trouble because one thing is the will of the nation, the other is the promotion of interests, because in a globalized world, you operate in a community and you have to take a lot of unpopular measures sometimes. We are experiencing this almost every day from the transposition of some liberal European directives and laws. [[There's a lot of fun in the hall.]] But a lot of referendums, for example, are in Mexico, which is plagued by the mob, literally in some regions of almost civil or economic war. In Ukraine, the Institute also has referendums. They didn't have much in that period, just six. It was mostly the '90s. What's the situation today, we know. And certainly the citizens don't ask if there's any break-up, total rebellion against some government or parliament position, so they don't ask whether they have a referendum or not, and they just go out into the streets. And the more important phenomenon today is social networks. But referendums have the same scope in Syria, and there is a civil war. I would mention Spain suffering from a crisis. In fact, I'd say once a cultivated country. Today they have even 56 or 58 percent of people after learning and after graduating without a job. Social trouble of incredible proportions, country debt gigantic. There's also an argument that it's a brake against debt. The references, on the other hand, are spared by the Romanians and against this Austria, they had three and three referendums at that time. Austria is diametrically on a completely different spectrum of political culture, living standards than Romanians, so, again, I think that the argument of referendum does not work there, which has been raised here. I'd rather stick to Norwegian experience. Conservative, settled, hardworking people with almost zero corruption. There were only two referendums there during the reference period. What I mean to say is that from these hard data for at least 30 years or more, and it would like to complete it, and I will never submit any referendum law, really an analysis of whether this is the major phenomenon in those countries. I think that prosperity, fairness and belief in democracy in those countries leads through completely different zones. Even today, clear data is increasingly showing that, for example, the line of European crises leads to the interface of a Catholic country - a Protestant country, perhaps with the exception of Austria. This can be traced fairly clearly, that prosperous societies operate where there is no high degree of stalking, where there is a high level of trust in citizens. That means, these are exactly the things that are going against the coalition treaty today and the government's programming declaration because we have institutes there, and it's going to come here, especially from the Social Democrats, the Institute of Property Returns. And it turned out, I also got an analysis that in all countries it was taken because of the introduction of wealth property tax. This points to completely different things - monitoring bank accounts. Again, where there's prosperity, it doesn't work very well. So I'd like to ask you, before the law comes here, which will probably present the coalition, to weigh very carefully what will be there. I am not defending myself to any limited extent or precisely taxatically defining how these referendums will take place, whether they will be before or after, whether citizens will be able to express themselves, on the basis of a petition, on the signing of citizens, on a praising law, and de facto wipe it out, or whether they can work ahead of time. But what we have here today, I consider a mine below the stability of our republic. Thank you for your attention - those who listened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have one point of fact here. Mrs Hnyková is registered. Mr Vozka is then entered into a proper debate. You have the floor, Madame - your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u40	Mr President, I will repeat this once again. I pronounce myself harshly - Hnyková, please, my name is Hnyk. Now I'd like to comment on that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a proposal for a general referendum here. I see there is no will to enforce it. I just want to say from this point on: The voters have given us enough votes to get into this Chamber of Deputies to enforce this law here. I see that - I repeat again - there is no will, but we will not give up. And I will, and I believe that my colleagues too, all the strength to enforce this law once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u41	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Another point of fact is made by Mr Fiedler. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will only respond very briefly to my previous speaker, a colleague of František Laudát. I would like to thank him with this. I don't know if he'll agree to my statement or not. But he mentioned Norsko here. He mentioned here that they had almost zero corruption in Norway, that the country was prosperous and that there were only two referendums. Well, that's a wonderful piece of evidence about how this direct democracy works. Where that country works as citizens imagine, they have no interest in raising referendums, because those politicians work as they wish the citizens of that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u43	Thank you. I have one more factual comment to make. I beg you - first a factual remark, then a priority right. I have Mr Stupčuk from the ČSSD registered here. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few comments on the subject. I do not want to put too much pressure on the debate, but nevertheless I want to say that I support the referendum, but not in the form that is proposed. This means a referendum that is somehow unlimited. In a form where everyone would decide everything without any bordering boundaries, I believe that this is a situation that would lead this country very quickly into chaos. And I don't think any of us want that. If we look at this practically from the point of view of the feasibility, the problem is, in particular, the participation in the referendum. What is the legitimacy of this decision when, paradoxically, the minority would very often decide the fate of the majority? And who will then formulate the question that will be the subject of the assessment? That's another, I'd say, cardinal problem of the thing. And Mr Okamur through Mr President. Take a look at history. History is full of moments when elements of direct democracy most often led society into tyranny and a state of dictator rule. I also think that this referendum is not very good for the parallel to say that direct democracy in Switzerland is equal to direct democracy in the Czech Republic, and we will have the same effect as in Switzerland. This is simply populism and the total ignorance of what economic foundations and historical-economic, and mercantelism and so on. It's all kind of a history of economics that's obvious there. Switzerland has simply grown for centuries from certain types of business transactions, etc. This is not due to a direct democracy. What I would consider it important to mention in relation to direct democracy, when we are talking about it, is the question of decentralising the performance of state administration, albeit it is a legitimate alternative to dealing with the problem here and developing the principle of subsidiarity and bringing citizens of the Czech Republic closer to being able to decide more and more through elected authorities about what is important in their region or village. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u45	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný is also registered with the factual remark. So, with a factual remark, Mr Volný. Is he here? [[Gestem shows from the site that it is not logged in.]] I've got you logged in. So in that case, I'm erasing you. Mr Okamura is registered with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u46	Mr President, gentlemen, to the very end. Now I have not been able to follow where Mr Stupčuk sat, but if it is the CSSD, if I can see it well, I do not know now that you have a referendum in the Government Declaration, which is an element of direct democracy, you do not agree with it. Well, that's a really startling finding. [[18.50 hours]] Otherwise, I would just like to instruct you with permission, through Mr President, that we do not propose an unlimited referendum. I've read it here before, but if you've been on a break or a cup of coffee, I'm sorry, I don't want to delay, but there are a number of restrictions that this must not go against the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, there must not be an intervention in the executive power of the courts, it must not be contrary to obligations, international law, etc. And quite a conclusion. A year ago, the word referendum and direct democracy in the Czech Republic was a dirty word, the media called us populists and mocked us. After a year of the work of Dawn, after a year of promoting direct democracy in the media and in Czech society, we forced this government to put a referendum, perhaps for the first time in history, into a government statement, which I think is absolutely perfect. That means, even if you blow it up now, it doesn't matter at all in the sense that you will come up with your own referendum proposal, which we will also be happy to talk about, and we will certainly be inclined to support. So I think that the fact that we have been discussing this for so long is proof that it is a subject, and I am just glad that we will finally introduce these elements of direct democracy here sooner or later, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u47	Thank you. I have now signed up with Mr Kalousek's factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u48	Thank you for the floor. I just very much ask Mr Okamura not to use historical parallels on this matter. For example, in 1923 a Munich coup was scattered and Hitler was imprisoned. Then, in 1933, he became Chancellor of the Reich, and ten years later, Europe was on fire. Mr Okamura, I wish you a lot of political success, but I very much ask you not to use historical parallels on the subject of your ideology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u49	Thank you and duly signed up for the debate is Mr Vozka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, only for formal reasons do I apply to my proposal in the introductory words for rejecting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u51	Thank you. At this point, I don't have anyone logged in to the debate or any factual comment. In that case, I am ending the general debate. We have one proposal here, and that is a motion to reject the proposal. I'll call our colleagues from outside. I'm gonna check you out again, so I'm gonna ask you to log into the system again. And now the vote begins... Not yet? So we can continue, thank you. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of rejecting the motion? Initiating vote number 97. Press the button and raise your hand as to who is in favour of rejecting the proposal. Who's against rejection? Thank you. I'm done with vote 97. [[On the light board: out of 152 logged in there were 102 pros, 33 pros.]] The application to reject the law was accepted. In fact, Mr Kalousek is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to take advantage of the priority word, but I do not know when the President will close the meeting. I would like to ask you to understand that, thanks to our decision, we will start tomorrow at 9.20 hours, as I am now asking for a 20-minute break at the TOP 09 meeting, and I am announcing to the MP's club that we will meet at 9 o'clock at the club's premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-006-017.u53	Thank you. I'm done discussing item 17. And I have one more factual remark from Mr Černý, so I'm going to ask you, Congressman... No? So I'm erasing the de facto remark. Because we have the last six minutes and the next point that follows is the draft constitutional law, I think it would not be appropriate to start this point in the constitutional law. This means that I am interrupting the House of Deputies' meeting, interrupting today's meeting until 9.20 tomorrow, when we will continue the negotiations. I wish you the pleasant rest of tonight.
