ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u1	22. Members of Radim Fiala, Tomio Okamura, Petr Adam, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Marek Černoch, Karel Fiedler, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Jaroslav Holík, David Kádner, Martin Lank, Karel Pražák, Milan Šarapatka and Jiří Štětina for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended /German press 38/ - First Reading We received the Government's position as press 38/1. I prosit that Mr Radim Fiala present the proposal for the appellants. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, the aim of this amendment is to relieve our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This pro-growth measure introduces cash accounting into our legal system, resulting in a recovery of small and medium-sized enterprises, including traders. There will then be a reduction in unemployment, increased competitiveness and recovery of the economy of the Czech Republic. A small part of this group are tradesmen, i.e. more than 250,000 value added tax payers. It is logical to correct the current legislative injustice, and it is rather a mystery why today's politicians have resisted such an adjustment. After all, it is in our own interest to make it advantageous to do business and pay taxes in this country. After all, it is right for us to build a rule of law together that will be just and that will not leave our tax payers with reason. These people, honest Czech small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, tradesmen, are the biggest victims of the existing legislation. It is these people who are also our best hope for new economic growth and overall economic recovery. So let us free them from legislative barriers and allow them to lift our economy from red numbers more effectively with their work. If you ask what the business of our businesses and companies is dying of, the answer is simple: death has a name of liquidity shortage, i.e. solvency. You have invoices issued, you have a profit account, but all you don't have is money. Our proposal will increase liquidity, i.e. solvency, especially small and medium-sized companies, will increase the confidence of these entrepreneurs in our state and in the business environment. I have to question the fundamental argument of opponents. I understand that there will be a decline in tax collection, but I am also very clear here: If it is cheating in value added tax, it is precisely in the case of fictitious input invoices. Thus, fraud allows for the lack of cash accounting on this tax. Colleagues and colleagues, many of you in the election campaign, a number of new political entities in this House, had in the electoral statement and promised to support businessmen and entrepreneurs in this very provision of value added tax. Remember your election vows. Our movement had this proposal as one of the main points of the electoral agenda. We believe that improvement in our country's condition can only be achieved by a real change in the system in which we live and work, including tax changes. Without a new approach, we will not improve anything, only new faces will appear at the trough. Are we going to continue building a debt-indebted European bureaucratic banking socialism? You don't have money for wages - you get a grant. You don't have liquidity - you can borrow it favorably. In this system, cheaters will continue to cheat and honest entrepreneurs will end up in executions and in the employment office. Colleagues and colleagues, try to support a clear step in favour of Czech businessmen and companies and support this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u3	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Václav Votava, to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, colleague Fiala has introduced us to the parliamentary proposal for the Act amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, which was submitted as press No. 38. He introduced us more closely to the principle of this proposal. In short, my intelligence report. Although I understand, of course, the efforts of the petitioners to respond to certain problems which are mainly faced by small and medium-sized enterprises and traders, namely the VAT levy before accepting payment for the services provided, performances or goods supplied, i.e. the payment of value added tax after the issue of the tax document and the tax period for which customers are not yet paid, my opinion is unfortunately negative on this bill. And it's not directed, of course, against small businesses, against businessmen, not at all. I also have no doubt that poor payment morale or insolvency causes, above all, small, medium-sized enterprises, but also tradesmen, value added tax payers, considerable problems. And themselves, if they honestly fulfil their tax obligations towards the state, they get into trouble, they get into a difficult financial situation, insolvency. Or, in order to fulfil their tax obligations, they are burdened with bank credit, if, of course, the bank gives it to them, it will be able to meet them so that they simply fulfil their obligation to the State. However, I have to relate more or less to Rusnokův's government's position. We received the opinion as press 38/1. And the Government's position is to disagree with this parliamentary proposal. There are several reasons. The main reason for the negative opinion, i.e. mine, is the introduction of the so-called. cash accounting, and thus the creation of actually two different regimes under the VAT Act. So it is not only our own cash accounts, but, of course, we are creating two parallel systems under the Value Added Tax Act. I think it is precisely the risk of tax evasion, as the government points out, associated with this introduction that is absolutely real and obvious. Another reason: The introduction of the proposed measure will mean higher tax management requirements, regardless of whether it will lead to acceleration and efficiency of tax control. I'm not entirely convinced of that. After all, even for the taxpayers themselves, higher claims will mean an increase in administration and other financial costs, such as the need for double monitoring of accounting cases. acquisition of software, etc. Finally, the proposal submitted is not entirely compatible with the European Directive on the common system of value added tax, which is quite strict in this respect. That's why I'm going to propose that this press be rejected in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have two applications so far. The first is Mr Jiří Dolejš, the second is Mrs Olga Havlová. Mr. Dolejš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We all curse ourselves by helping the economy, even small entrepreneurs and businessmen, but somehow we cannot find common ground in how. And I think maybe that's the most important thing. Not who's gonna catch a mark for trying, but what's gonna be on the climb. And I think that's probably what the small businessmen are most interested in, after all. When I heard the opening words of the petitioner and the rapporteur's comments, I cannot resist certain questions. And I think there's a way to find an answer to them. It is not enough to say - yes, we will let it go, or we will reject it, and this will end and we will wait for the wise government to make us happy with something far more thoughtful. But let's think about where the shoe is pushing us and how to break it down. I don't think, regardless of the words that fell in the election campaign, anyone would have a small businessman for parasites. I hope we've explained that to each other across the political spectrum. They really aren't harmful. But is this proposal really so strongly pro-growth? Aren't there any new complications, administration costs? Is there consistency, or contrast, in the rule of law, in tax order? Those are the questions I asked myself. Of course, the proposal is based on a directive of the European Union. This allows cash accounting to be carried out. But at the same time, the rapporteur here said that the method is - even said by such a court - incompatible. It is incompatible with another part of European and Czech law. [[15.10 hours]] So I can't help but think it wouldn't be a big deal if this proposal hadn't ended up in the trash, because good ideas and real problems shouldn't end in the trash, but to work on it. I am now unable to assess whether the greater risk of tax evasion is in the area of fictitious invoicing, or whether the entire cash accounting mechanism will be abused. In summary, I do not want to bother you for long, but the concerns that have already been expressed are serious, the intentions of the rapporteurs are not only godly, but also specifically formulated, so let us deal with the conflicts, with the differences in work order, and logically this also implies a simple conclusion, which alters what the rapporteur has said, that is, the whole thing he wants to reject, that is to say, in Czech to reject at first reading. I would suggest that we return this to the petitioners for revision, and I believe that they are able to find common ground not only in their party club, but also across the political spectrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u7	Thank you. The floor is with Mrs Olga Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u8	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I welcome the priority of discussing House prints 38 and 39 - both proposals to amend the Value Added Tax Act. The first printing is intended to introduce the possibility of payment of VAT only after payment of the invoice and the second cancellation of the institute of unreliable payer. I consider both very important, especially in the picture of numbers about unemployment, as you have heard here, which are now sadly record-breaking. Although the recession is slowly ending, companies do not accept new employees. Labour market statistics speak mercilessly. The total number of unemployed persons has risen to 629 thousand, compared to January last year it is an increase of 43 thousand people. The number of unemployed persons thus increased to 8,6 percent. I stress that, according to the old calculations, this number would be much more alarming and 11 percent, which is really scary. The government is negotiating tripartite with trade unions and employers and trying to agree on solutions that would reverse these alarming numbers. We come up with proposals that are long-term required by entrepreneurs. With proposals that can really help and will be relatively inexpensive to what effect and potential they have to bring. Both proposals have long been discussed and prepared in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce. Last term was an effort to help entrepreneurs. Dear members of the new government coalition, if you are worried that these measures could endanger tax collection, then consider that this can be true at the very beginning. I have no doubt that changes will certainly be beneficial for our citizens and small entrepreneurs. Both the government's programming statement and the coalition contract mention how the Czech Republic will support entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs in the labour market. Please support the change and our suggestions if you want to fill these words in an unbiased manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u9	Thank you. There is a factual comment by Mr Rais, then by Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u10	Hello, everyone. I would like to support the opinion of the rapporteur, Mr Votava, here, because I also believe that two systems, cash and standard, can bring a problem. On the other hand, I think that this is an extremely up-to-date issue that we should be dealing with, and I agree with what Mr Dolejš said here so that we can continue to work on it, and, of course, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I am reporting on this, and I think that we could find common ground on this, because, of course, there is a need to help businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u11	Yes. Mr. Fiala, Mr. Klaška after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I, from the debate and from what the rapporteur has said to Votava, feel that we will be very hard to enforce this proposal at first reading, that we will not send it to the committees, that we will no longer discuss it. I want to ask, where are our election vows? Where is the help to Czech entrepreneurs, businessmen? Where are the growth measures for the Czech economy, which we talked about so much before the elections and described so many pages of magazines and newspapers? I think that's exactly it! There have been many cleansing conferences of different parties, political subjects, but no correction on the horizon! I just want to say that if this proposal does not pass for second reading, it will not be ordered by the committee, so the Dawn movement will not get tired, will not be discouraged, and we will redesign the proposal, we will work on it and submit it again, because we think that it has its place in the Czech economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u13	Mr Klaška, who is the last member of the general debate so far, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u14	Mr President, my dear government, my fellow Members, I would also like to support the rapporteur's position, because I also think that this is a well-meaning initiative, I appreciate this parliamentary proposal, but I think that it treats the result rather than the cause. The cause is elsewhere. It is, at least as I meet different entrepreneurs, in secondary insolvency. So maybe there'll be more of a way through here. I would suggest that a correct government proposal be drawn up with all the discussion, with the whole legislative process, which would actually help small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u15	[[At the same time, the Messenger claims the word. Fiala and Urban.]] There is an agreement that Mr Fiala will speak first, then Mr Urban. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u16	If you don't mind, my colleague, I thank you, through the President, for the priority right. I just want to respond to a colleague who performed in front of me. He's absolutely right. The problem is secondary insolvency. My colleague said it exactly. And after all, we don't want the money that they don't have in their account to be given out of their own funds, but they put it in their businesses, in the purchase of goods, in the wages of their employees, and they don't have to release them so that after they have the money, they have to pay taxes. You said it, Mr colleague, through the President, quite rightly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u17	Mr. Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear here that the state is in a bit of a conflict of interest in this situation, because the state knows that there is secondary insolvency, it knows that there are problems with paying that there are frauds, but it does not want to miss out on what is to be lost in the state budget. I understand that, on the one hand, because the state has its responsibilities, etc., on the other hand, I think that the bill is worthy of consideration, and I would definitely recommend that it be discussed in committees, and if you will allow me to look at the chairman of the Economic Committee, I would not have consulted him, so I would suggest that if he was released for second reading to be discussed in the Economic Committee, because he has real economic implications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u19	Thank you. I ask who else is reporting to the general debate. I have noted in the rapporteur's opinion the proposal to propose rejection. I believe that if this is to be the case, it must be heard in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u20	Well, thank you for your word. Well, they say the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Don't take it so seriously, what I said, but I understand it a little bit, and I've already said it in the news report - I understand the reasons that lead the petitioners to submit this proposal, but really, to create here two parallel systems in the collection of value added tax, which I think is not right and that it will produce a number of problems. I understand the intention, however, to improve the position, the position of businessmen and smaller businesses. So we don't spill the baby with the tub. So I propose rejecting this bill at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u21	Okay, thank you. If there are no more applications for the debate, I will conclude the debate and ask whether the representative of the petitioners or the rapporteur is interested in the final word. It's not like that. In that case, we will vote on the proposal that has been made in the debate, which means a motion for rejection - yes, there is a request for withdrawal, so I will sign all of you out. [[Voices from the O.R.]] Please sign up with your cards again. The rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u22	This way, Mr President, for the record, he was here - I do not know - if the proposal is valid for the return to work - but he was not mentioned, he was not repeated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-003-022.u23	He was not mentioned in the debate, if I'm not mistaken. Was it? I didn't register him, so if he was mentioned in the debate? He was, so I am sorry, in which case I apologise to Mr Dolejš, in which case we would vote first on the return to work and then on the refusal. So you've all been logged out, and I'll be ringing my colleagues in the lobby so they can take part in the vote. We will therefore vote on Mr Dolejš's proposal, which proposes to return this proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 88, registered is 161, for 70 and against 40. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore vote on rejecting this proposal at first reading. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 89, registered 163, for 97, versus 16. This proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that we have rejected this proposal. I'm done discussing item number 22 and opening point
