ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, and Legal Measures of the Senate No. 341/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, and Act No. 55/2012 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended / House printing 300/ - second reading Thank you for the position of the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová and the rapporteur of the Committee for the Public Report, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, at the rapporteur's table. Under the authority of the Government, this bill will be introduced by Mrs Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development. I ask her to take her opening words. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I am presenting a partial amendment to the Public Procurement Act. The proposed bill is contained in the Government's legislative work plan for the remainder of 2014 approved by Government Resolution No. 165 of 12 March 2014 The purpose of the proposed amendment is only a partial change. It is not a technical amendment either, but only a partial amendment before the new Public Procurement Act, which the Ministry of Regional Development will draw up at the beginning of the year, will be prepared to be referred to the Chamber of Deputies either at the end of 2015, or at the beginning of 2016. The amendment proposes extending the demonstrative list of criteria for evaluation of tenders by the organisation, qualification and experience of staff involved in the performance of the contract. I would like to point out here that this partial amendment proposes basically only five changes if I really had to shorten it to what the amendment contains. Everything else will be dealt with in the new law. I would just like to mention here that your comments, your amendments, and what we are planning until the new law, are very often mixed with us. It must be noted that the European Commission has not yet fully issued new directives on contracts, which we will basically implement by April 2016, when the law must be most effective. This is until April 18th next year. [[Noise in the hall.]] So this partial amendment consists of only five changes. We're expanding the team's quality assessment. You know that, given that most of the contracts end up underestimating the price, most of the contracts are actually underrated, it also affects the lack of European funds, because what remains there is no longer prepared for this by the contracting authority or the beneficiary. Thus, we consider the extension of the evaluation to be one of many that can actually bring investment or develop investment construction in the Czech Republic. Another thing that we are changing is that by adopting this amendment, there will be a formal amendment to the provisions governing the conditions for the award of additional works and additional services in order to better meet the needs of practice. Newly, additional construction works or additional services will also need to be required as a result of circumstances which the contracting authority, acting with due diligence, could not foresee. This means that the multi-work that could not be predicted will be included as multi-work. That is, in simple terms, exactly what I have quoted here. The proposed change addresses the situation in the sense that the contracting authority cannot be required to take more care than usual, or rather than the one that he could have expected, for example, in the processing of project documentation. By adopting the amendment, the obligation to cancel the procurement procedure will also be lifted in a situation where the contracting authority has received only one tender, thereby accelerating the procurement process. We probably all know that this has been and is quite a big problem from the existing Public Procurement Act, because, above all, for large contracts, for example, even for ICT, only one offer has been received and a new tender has to be made, which does not cost small money and, above all, it takes a very long time. So this is the thing that we're already dealing with in this novel. Other criteria, respectively. The openness of this law will be dealt with only in the new law. I am really just pointing out that this is a partial amendment to the Public Procurement Act. Based on the results of the review procedure, there has also been an adjustment regarding sensitive activity where the function of a member of the evaluation committee would be removed from sensitive activity. Another area covered by the proposed amendment is the repeal of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act governing the list of assessors and the abolition of the obligation to submit opposing expert observations on the grounds of major public procurement. This is another quite large, significant plus of this amendment, which we hope will speed up the process of public procurement. Four amendments were tabled during the discussion of the proposal in the Economic Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I would like to briefly comment on each of them here, so that you know how I will react to them in the third reading. The first was the electronicisation of communication with the Office for the Protection of Competition. We initially disagreed with this proposal, but we changed our position to positive. This means that communication will be able to take place electronically, which is not yet in progress. [[16.30 hours]] Another amendment was a requirement to extend exemptions from the scope of the Law on Legal Services. We have a considerable problem with this as the Ministry of Regional Development and we are expressing a disagreeable opinion on it, given that this would be a precedent for exempting a large number of public contracts and various exceptions related to this amendment to the regulation of legal services. The essence of the amendment is, on the one hand, the exclusion of representation services by a lawyer under the Public Procurement Act, but also a completely new exception to the absolute exemption of all legal services up to 750 000. EUR. This amount is really very high for us. We're going to deal with this under the new law, but not now with the partial, basically technical amendment. The next amendment concerns an increase in the scope of the so-called Multi-working from 20 per cent to 50 per cent. The Ministry of Regional Development does not propose an increase, but it is in several amendments. Our attitude toward this is neutral. The last amendment concerns so-called in-house exceptions. I'll introduce her very briefly. The amendment states that all central government bodies should be able to apply this exception to all subordinate organisations of one of these bodies. The MMR does not agree with this proposal because of incorrect interpretation of the possibility of vertical cooperation between contracting authorities. European law considers as one of the conditions of the in-house exemption the fact that the contracting entity controls another body, to which the contract is awarded in a similar manner to its internal organisational units. It is practically possible now, and the amendment will allow the Ministry to award its subordinate organization or contribution organization. The amendment states that one Ministry should be able to award public contracts to other ministries. We do not agree with this because we do not deal with the control element in this amendment. Thus, at this point in time, there would be no way to control these contracts and, moreover, it is not in line with the European Directive, where the European Court of Justice has different opinions on this. So far there are seven of them, and every opinion on the in-house exemption is completely different. Thank you for your word, and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u3	Thank you, Minister Šlechtová. At first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Economic Committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House press 300/1 to 300/3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, take his report first. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u4	Good afternoon, Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. The House received 300 House press from Government 3. 9. It has been sent to all Members. The Organizing Committee discussed the proposal and recommended 4. 9. by resolution 81, the rapporteur appointed me, Ladislav Oklešťek, and ordered the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development to discuss. The first reading was 1. 10th at the 17th meeting. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development discussed proposal 14. 11. the resolution was delivered to Members as House Press 300/2. The Economic Committee discussed the proposal and issued 27. 11. 2014 resolution delivered to Members as House Press 300/3. Furthermore, an amendment was tabled by František Vácha under number 1663, namely 17. 11. 2014. The Minister has spoken in an exhaustive manner to justify this amendment, so I have nothing to say about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u5	I thank the rapporteur and record his application for the debate as a priority. I now ask that Mr Stanislav Pfléger take the floor of the rapporteur of the Economic Committee. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor on your intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u6	Hello, Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. At its 14th meeting on 20 November 2014, the Economic Committee adopted Act No. 173/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, and Legal Measures of the Senate No. 341 amending Law No. 137 on public procurement, as amended, and Act No. 55/2012 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, i.e. House press 300, this resolution: The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the opening words of the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová, reports by Mr Stanislav Pfléger and after a general and detailed debate, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House press 300, as amended by the approved amendments. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make legislative technical amendments in the draft law which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. Thirdly, he instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee, which I have just done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. I am the first to have Mr Ladislav Oklešťek, who, as rapporteur, takes precedence over the duly applied ones, which is five at the moment, so he is the sixth in the general debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I have the honour to present the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 16th meeting of 11 November 2014 where the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 16th meeting after Ing's statement of reasons. Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, following the report by Mr Ladislav Oklešťek and following the debate, adopted a resolution recommending the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve 300 as amended by the amendments adopted, as follows: I the following point 3 is inserted after point 2: "3. In Article 23, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (a) point 3 "20" is replaced by "50."" The other points are outnumbered. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to introduce the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, it instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u9	I thank Mr Ladislav Oklešťek. Mr Rostislav Vyzula will speak in the debate, and Mrs Jana Černochová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have two seeming little things in the form of an amendment that I will later apply to. But it's not just little things. They should lead to a fairer conduct of public procurement. The first concerns electronic auctions. Here is one thing that is somewhat curious, and that is that the evaluation committee evaluates the bidding prices at the assessment stage. The next course is an electronic auction that significantly changes the prices of tenders, and the evaluation committee cannot comment on this further. Therefore, I will recommend in the amendment that the evaluation committee should be able to assess the tender prices referred to in the paragraph set out here after the electronic auction has ended. That's the first thing. [[16.40 hours]] The second issue concerns the so-called protected workshops. Just to shed some light. In fact, protected workshops have the opportunity to offer a certain price in public procurement, which may be even higher, but the evaluation committee must consider it to be 15 percent lower. What does this lead to? Let me give you an example. For example, someone in a public contract will enter the price of 100 units, the protected workshop will state the price of 114 units, but its price should be assessed as 99, i.e. 15% lower. And now there are such smart guys who own a protected workshop and sell goods to somebody else with this particular advantage. It's not at all a product-protected workshop. This could be avoided by the new amendment point, which I have in my amendment and which would not allow this, and the management would be fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u11	I thank Mr Rostislav Vyzula. The words will be taken by Mrs Jana Černochová, Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, I welcome, of course, that the law on public procurement is changing and amended, where its last form was actually very poor. Those of us who have been in communal politics for some time, with a certain sentiment and love, remember Act 199 on public procurement, which was completely simple and in my opinion relatively transparent. Indeed, officials and the entire apparatus were able to manage this without all the municipalities and public institutions having to waste money on hiring different administrators to compete so that they at least had something to create a block between them and the UOHS. I wanted to reassure you that what you mentioned here is some interim small amendment, that a really big amendment will happen soon, that we will not deal with a new and new law every year, that a good, stable law will actually be introduced, which will not change every year, which will actually provide public corporations with certainty in the sense that they will know not only public corporations but also business entities with what they can expect in the coming years. I would very much like for this law to actually get exactly into the regime so that we can do it. So I'd like to ask you for information on whether anyone's actually working on this big novel yet, because I'd like to make sure that we have it here in January. If we calculate the legislative process, how lengthy it is, then it will be back to the end of the year with some legitimisation. So it was said 2016-2017. It'd be nice if we could do it sooner. I also wanted to ask - in the meantime, the Minister of Defence came, for which I thank him. I consulted his cabinet because at one of the last meetings of the Defence Committee, the question of excluding state-owned enterprises from the scope of this Act was discussed in connection with the Public Procurement Act. These were specifically LOM and VOP CZ, which are actually state enterprises in the Ministry of Defence. In discussing this issue on the committee, when the Minister was also present, it was said that the Ministry of Defence intended to resolve this issue in the framework of further amendment of the Public Procurement Act. Unfortunately, none of the amendments, which I have read and been notified or are in the system until now, does include exempting these undertakings from the scope of this Act. I think there was agreement across the spectrum to exempt this law, and we talked about it in connection with sanctions against Russia. As we know, LOM Praha, LOM Pardubice is a state enterprise that is very affected by these measures, because they are the headquarters not only for European countries but also for the United States where helicopters are being repaired. I would not want them to be sanctioned once by sanctions and for the second time that they will not be able to compete within the framework of this law, which has so far been applicable to them, at all. So I wanted to ask Minister Stropnický if he would answer me how the Ministry of Defence is still counting on this change in any further amendment, or if the Minister has changed his position and will not propose this amendment. I'm a little sorry, because if I had known it wouldn't be here, I would have tried to prepare an amendment myself. I was just saying that when we said that on the committee, it would already be in this novel. But if the secretary really assures me that we're gonna have a big novel here in January, and the minister says he's gonna design it in a big novel, I'm gonna be happy. But I would not want it to be postponed again for a few months or even years, because the situation in both LOM and VOP CZ in public procurement parties is very unpleasant and I think that it is not entirely desirable, even in terms of the security of our country, that all the information that comes from these enterprises linked to the Ministry of Defence should be completely public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u13	Thank you. Now, please get to Mr. Hovorka's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to address the Public Procurement Act in general. I would very much like to see fundamental systemic changes in public procurement especially for construction works in the big amendment that is being prepared at the Ministry for Regional Development. Often smaller companies, which serve as subcontractors of large companies, are abused and discriminated against in the system. So the alignment of the system according to the model of German competition law and the takeover of good things that appear in the German competition system, which makes subcontractors equal to general contractors of buildings. I also think that it is not okay that the Public Procurement Act merely states that the contracting authority should proceed with due diligence, because this term is very vague. There should be a clear specification of the term "with proper care of the economy" which has already been judged and, accordingly, this provision could be enforced in the event of non-compliance. In addition, I will also comment on this in the detailed debate to which I am declaring myself. At the same time, I would like to touch on one more amendment which has been passed in the committee which proposes in Section 23 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (a) in point 3, "20" is replaced by "50." I can understand that there are very often cases in public procurement, especially in line constructions, when there is an increase in the volume of the contract, and if the number exceeds the number number 20, the contract should be properly competitive again, which is a problem, because there are problems with guarantees and so on, when a new supplier should join the building and so on. But I think this huge increase from 20 to 50 is unacceptable. That is why I would like to propose an amendment that would amend number 20 to 30 in a detailed debate. Now, in my opinion, I want to touch on certain risks relating to some of the contested provisions of the law, which I do not see as clearly as mentioned here by the Minister. I believe that the way a public procurement system is developing, that in the long term it is more the focus on the concession system, and in our country it could be the setting of long-term contracts almost without the possibility of further modification of parameters to the entire complex of services for one firm at fixed price. This could lead to PPP projects. [[16.50 hours]] This will be defended by the absence of disputes from incompetent assessment of project documentation and subsequent project changes that affect the quality and the price of the work. But then there will be no public, i.e. real, with the power to stop supervision of the implementation process, because it will primarily be private finance, and anyone who has had their experience of having so long gone through the countries that have come to this country. And I want to comment on two more amendments here. It is Amendment Point 3 and Amendment Point 6, when in point 3, which relates to the abolition of the obligation to submit an opposition expert opinion on the justification of major public contracts, which has been established for the statutory measures of the Senate No. 341/2013 Coll., and whose effectiveness is due to occur from 1 January 2015. Although it is true that according to paragraph 33, in brackets § 156, the government may continue to request the submission of an opposition opinion without law, but if formulated in this way, it will not impose anything on the government to request this opposition opinion. As far as point 6 of the amendment is concerned, provision is made for sensitive action. The proposal responds to the requirements of contracting entities where, in the case of the compilation of evaluation commissions for major public contracts, it did not have sufficient members available to comply with the conditions of the Act on the Protection of Classified Information and Security Eligibility. Even in the case of the exclusion of a member of the evaluation committee for sensitive activities, there will remain sufficient other activities and processes within this institute in the context of the award of a significant public contract, that there will be no breach of the security of the award process, as the evaluation committee will continue to have an obligation of confidentiality. Therefore, I would like to propose the launch of these amendment points 3 and Amendment point 6. The reason for this is: If the above strategy is implemented by the public procurement system through concession contracts or PPP projects, the removal of these insurance policies in the law, which are in paragraphs 3 and 6, will almost prevent early and thus effective defence of the State against deliberately rigged procurement. It could be a major highway or a major power plant or something. I do not recommend this, which is why I propose the launch of this amendment point 3 and the amendment point 6. If they were still in force in the law, they did not limit the functioning of this law in practice. There was a mention of an in-house exception. I would like to pause here because we have personal experience from the control committee and the Homolka Health Committee, when the contribution organization of the State Hospital Na Homolce established its subsidiaries as a business company. In one case it was a joint stock company, in the other case it was a company s.r.o., through which this company s.r.o. She was controlling part of the share in the joint stock company. The system was such that subsidiaries were created primarily so that Hospital Na Homolce did not have to award public contracts, but their subsidiaries, in the case of HOLTE MEDICAL a.s. and HOLTE s.r.o., could award public contracts directly. In the justification of the public administrative control carried out by the Ministry of Health, these subsidiaries, or even the Na Homolce Hospital, were making excuses for the so-called. an in-house exception, that means they actually entered it for their contracting authority. I would like to say that, in fact, the use of this institute in the present case has led to the creation of subsidiaries, state contribution organisations, in order to circumvent the Public Procurement Act, and to carry out substantial appropriations. Thank you for your attention, and I am here at the same time reporting to a detailed debate when I will make my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u15	Yes, thank you, I'm registering your application. And now, please, to Mr. Vácha microphone. Please prepare Mr Bendl. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the support of my amendment, which I have read into the system under number 1663, as mentioned by the rapporteur. The proposed amendment to the Public Procurement Act extends the area of contracting entities to the law given by the organisational component of the contracting authority, which deal separately with the allocated funds. This is a simple change resulting from the recommendations of the Ministry of Regional Development expert group and at the same time from the MMR methodology on public procurement for 2014. The application of this amendment would simultaneously translate the provisions of the European Union Public Procurement Directive 2014/24/EU into the Czech legal order, a directive that concerns separate operational units. As an example, I would like to mention the faculties of universities, which are established under Act No. 111/1998 Coll., Section 22, on Higher Education Institutions. In current legislation, the contracting authority is a university represented by the Rectorate, but the vast majority of the contracts are implemented by faculties which have their own funds under Section 24 of Act No. 111 on universities, and are explicitly appointed in the recommendation of the expert commission of the Ministry. And it is the faculties that implement the preparation and technical specifications and are the beneficiaries of most of the competing contracts. The diversity of faculties makes meaningful and rational public procurement impossible in universities, and there are significant delays in purchasing goods and services, which in many cases paralyzes, literally paralyzes the activities and basic tasks of the faculties, and there is often an excessive waste of public funds. It must be added that, in practice, this amendment would mean that public contracts in universities could compete with faculties only after prior delegation of this power by the rectorate of the university. However, the Ministry has a somewhat reserved relationship with my amendment with the arguments that, since it is already declared in methodology, it does not have to be put into law, and that the opinion has never been called into question by supervisory authorities such as the ÚOHS or the courts. However, it cannot be assumed that the Ministry could in any way affect the current or future decision-making power of the ÚOHS or the court. For this reason, schools are legitimately not placing contracts through faculties, but only centrally through the Rectorate. It is not true that this position of the Ministry has never been called into question by the UOHS. At the time of the conjecture with the managing authority of the Operational Programme Education for Competitiveness on the subject of census, the management body's argument was the opinion of the ÚOHS, which sounded that the contracting authority is only and only a legal entity, i.e. the Rectorate, and that therefore it is not possible to enter through faculties. This is also the result of today's management body of OPVK's need to add through universities, through rectorates. This is precisely one of the reasons why universities do not dare to award individual contracts through faculties, even though there are recommendations from an expert group or methodology from the Ministry. [[17,00 hours]] Another problem for which universities do not dare to apply in practice to public procurement through faculties is a number of independent controls - you know this from your own practice, from your own experience - from different institutions. In their own experience, universities know that methodological recommendations are not a legal standard and therefore cannot follow them, and in many cases they have experience of dragging opposition procedures linked to the considerable cost of legal services, in which they try in vain to convince the supervisory authorities that schools are legally acting according to the Ministry's training or methodology. If we have a statement of the Ministry's interpretation only on websites or in e-mails, then we simply will not be recognized by any supervisory authority. The Ministry even refers in some of its statements to an agreement with the Ministry of Finance, but also from there we have clear signals that if it is not in the law, they will not take this into account. Therefore, in order to guarantee legal certainty and to respect the principle of legitimate expectations, there should be a rapid transposition of the provisions of the European Directive, but also of the Ministry's methodological order, and thus greater legal certainty of contracting authorities. At present, this recommendation of the methodology is not used by the contracting authority only because it does not have explicit support in the law and the contracting authorities are afraid of criminal or financial penalties in its application, in particular in the context of checks on the funds spent from the European Union funds. The current situation is hardly acceptable from a legal point of view. The State authority, the Ministry, simply cannot, in the exercise of public authority, give authority to certain facts and thus create good faith in their correctness in individuals, so that the State can subsequently sanction these individuals. It is not in the interest of the State or contracting entities to delay the adoption of this Euro-Conformation proposal, which will mean that Czech legislation will no longer deviate from the wording of the European Directive. The State should not hinder the natural balance between the requirement of the general interest of society and the requirement to protect fundamental rights. It is therefore necessary to establish a reasonable relationship between the law and the objectives pursued by the company and thus to extend the range of contracting entities in order to facilitate the entire administration of public procurement, provided, of course, that these organisational components are given independent responsibility and relative independence from the main body. We are therefore talking about the units responsible for the award of public contracts, independently carrying out procurement procedures, deciding on the selection of the most appropriate tender and having separate funds earmarked for the payment of the public contract. Therefore, there is no reason to put any further obstacles to them to be independent contracting authorities in the field of public procurement. I would therefore like to conclude by asking you once again to consider all my arguments leading to the support of this amendment, or to support it in the vote. Finally, I would like to add that this amendment was supported by its resolution on 18 November and by the Czech Rectors' Conference, by its resolution of 24 November and by the Bureau of the Higher Education Council. At the same time, this proposal was supported by its resolution and by the House Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports on 20 November. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time, which you have devoted to my proposal. Thank you for your attention and I hope that you will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u17	Good evening. Thank you, Mr Vách. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Karamazov. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me briefly to support the proposal of my colleague, Dean of one of the faculties of the University of South Bohemia. He's obviously in a lot of trouble like mine. I am also dean of one of the faculties of Pardubice University, and we often deal with the problem of public procurement for goods, the price of which must be added, as my colleague said, through the entire university, which leads to very paradoxical and unpleasant situations where we have to make a large tender for relatively cheap goods throughout the university. The fact that the faculties are often very diverse makes us buy what we don't want, that we buy it very expensive and overpriced and it doesn't actually fulfil the function. So I would also like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u19	I thank Mr Karamaz. Now, with another factual remark, Mr Vácha. Sorry, Mr Vácha is a gentleman, prefers Mrs Putnová. So, Mrs Putnová, after her, Mr Vácha. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u20	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to sign up for the proposal that Mr Vácha has announced here. My experience is very similar and many of you who work with universities are struggling with the fact that I am complaining about a little flexibility and slow action in a number of solutions to cooperation, for example with practice. I believe that this amendment by Mr Vácha could, in a number of cases, help the faculties to be better prepared to respond to the situation by being contracting authorities. I therefore also intercede for the support of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u21	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. Mr Vácha, Mr Karamazov, is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to point out - Mr Hovorka spoke of purposefully established companies so as to circumvent the law. In this case, faculties are established by law, they have their own funds, and the psychology of scientists is completely different from normal people. Scientists are essentially using public funds that are limited to research in some way, and they are, of course, very economically dealing with these funds to achieve some reasonable results. It is very difficult to explain to them that when a scientist comes to you that he has chosen a research tablet in a store somewhere in the field or in nature, which costs CZK 1,500, because it is most important for him to have the longest battery life, and thanks to a selection procedure or a framework contract he has to buy it out of his grant funds for CZK 5,000, which means the difference is CZK 3,500, so it is very difficult to explain to you as dean, but you as legislators how it is possible that such situations occur. So I would really ask the House not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u23	Thank you, Mr Vách. Now with a factual remark, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only reply by your means with a great delay to Mrs Černochová's comment or question. We, the rules that would allow more efficient use and more flexible use of state-owned enterprises, which we are the founder of, want to incarnate in the big upcoming or larger upcoming amendment. But already in this has been omitted or the percentage of in-house for those individual enterprises is not specified, so it should in a way help. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u25	Thank you, Minister Stropnický. Now, with proper application, Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a man who has experience with the former Public Procurement Act. I would like to draw attention to some of the things that might happen to us. In general, I think we need a new law on public procurement, because experience with the existing one is wrong. In Bohemia there is a awareness that everything that is cheapest is the best. Everyone feels that in both Bohemia and Moravia and Silesia, everyone is concerned about buying something that is a little more expensive, even better, because they will be immediately attacked and said criminalized and so on. This law should make it clear and clear that it is possible to buy quality things, that it is possible to check that someone bought a quality thing, because we should be interested as Czech legislators not to give jobs to Číňan, nothing against China or Vietnam and so on, but we should do our utmost to ensure that if there are quality products on the Czech market, they also have a chance to apply to it. The law, as is often used populistly today, arose under very populist pressure, just under pressure - the law must say that what is cheapest is the best. Therefore, I do not envy the Minister's task of implementing the Chamber of Deputies standard, which should take into account, on one hand, the absolute transparency of the fact that whoever tries to draw up a public contract will not have to be afraid, if his intentions are honest, that he will pass the contract in order not to be criminalised, on the other hand, so that the law can be abused and allowed people with dishonest intentions to obtain public contracts. From this point of view, I would like to draw attention to the amendment that has been passed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which says that, in accordance with the recommendation of the European Union or that this is possible in the European Union, it is recommended that the law should raise the possible additional limit on the increase of the contract instead of the current 20 per cent of 50. I'm not sure this is a paragraph that would work positively in the Czech Republic. Rather, I think that it will improve the trend of all those candidates who go into public proceedings and into the contract that they will throw the prize in order to get to the contract, hoping that it is no longer a 20% limit, but it is 50%, so then, my friends, we will sort of make a deal. This is something I don't feel like, and I'm not going to strongly support raising the limit to additional work from 20 to 50 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u27	I thank Mr Bendl. Now here I have a point of fact - Mr Ivan Adam? No? Adamec. Sorry. I apologise to the honourable Member for misbehaving his name. I didn't like to do it, and it won't happen again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u28	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad you'll finally come up with a name next time. I'm here to respond to what my colleague Bendl said. You know, the 50 percent surprised me, too, and when I thought about it, if we're going to fight corruption and we're going to mean it, we're opening up a corrupt area here. I know what it meant. There are also fewer jobs today, and I would like it if the more work and less work were counted, and then another possible increase was deducted from that. Unfortunately, this amendment does not contain this, and I have a serious problem supporting it. Otherwise, maybe a few reactions to what happened here. I still think it wasn't just the last public procurement law that came from the coalition workshop when I wasn't here, it was ours that was the bad guy. Everyone who came after the first one has always been worse and worse, until he was the worst. I welcome this adjustment. But on the other hand, I always say, you know, if both parties, the contracting authority and the contractor, act in a way that they agree to cheat, we can't stop it by any law. We have other organs to investigate. In fact, by other legal changes, we make life harder for honest people who mean it and get into a situation so often that they can't compete properly, because either objectively they can't, or they just can't handle it administratively. So I think the laws are still the same. We're still looking to prevent things we don't want, but I'm not sure it's the right way to go. However, we are in the European Union. They can't do it any other way. And I will allow myself to express my dying wish in my factual reminder that the new law is not so drastic, draconian and so hard against the ordinary contracting authority so that we can actually compete with the knowledge that all the honest ones will simply reach their own and that we will simply put those criminals aside. Thank you for your attention. And I definitely see that 50 percent as a very suspicious issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u29	I thank Mr Adamc. Now with a point of fact - or a priority right, Mr President? First of all, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u30	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I will try to be very brief. As regards the increase in the limit from twenty to fifty, I must say, we are not doing anything that is beyond the directive of the European Union, which has always been the downside of many people in the past and the present here in all the falls. In short, the 27-year-olds are working at a 50-percent multi-work limit today. Apart from Slovenia, which has 30 %, and the Czech Republic, which currently has 20 %. That means, at this point, we are only comparing the limit to fifty, like all the Member States of the European Union. That's the first thing. Second thing. Just a little comment by Mr President to my colleague Ivan Adamc, also to the mayor. I think we both know what we're talking about because we're dealing with a public contract today and every day. I have to say, there's one more thing that's forgotten here, very important, and it's a projection, a designer. I think there's a dog buried in there. If the contracting authority doesn't push the designer, it doesn't push the designer, and it doesn't force him to rewrite, redraw the project documentation on the basis of the designer's request, so here we can pass the law we want, but in short and well, if the designer gives a hundred and one reasons that the job or the contract is this expensive, then the result is the same way as it ends, and we often pray about how the selection procedure ends. And I'm not talking about any more cases, because it's for a separate show. However, at this point, the ambition of my colleagues and my ambition was only to compare the parameter from twenty to fifty. I also look forward to the new law, the new amendment, because working with the existing one, simply, ladies and gentlemen, is very difficult. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u31	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr. Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u32	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of responding to the speeches of two Members of the Economic Committee, which concerned above all that limit of 50 per cent. There was a debate on the Economic Committee and my opinion, I think it was said here from both sides, and it is a good thing because the more work often happens because - not with intent, but because the project was poorly prepared. That's completely out of the question. On the other hand, opening those doors up to 50% is not something that seems reasonable to me at this point, because it could actually be abused in a number of cases. And I think setting that limit somewhere, here was an amendment of 30%, it's reasonable, and waiting to see what it does in that big novel, and then maybe comparing it to 50 percent based on what it's gonna look like. But at this point, even for me, 50 percent seems too high. But it's really about the project preparation, because a lot of these things come from this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u33	I thank Mr Pilný. Now with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to give you an example of why we're going from twenty to fifty. Freshly carried out project IOP, repair of locks, specifically in Valtice, where only administration of preparation of the project took a year and a half. It was generated for one year when it was to be done. Three weeks of archaeological research was planned there. The archaeological survey lasted three months. The floors of the Baroque theatre were uncovered to a depth of 7 meters, where the former street appeared. All of this was financed by the supplier from the generated funds. Now pick up how much left to implement the project. There was redesigning, even the location of certain technological equipment, so there was a change of project etc. [[17.20 hours]] If the supplier or the person who has carried out or administered the project does more than 20 per cent of the work, he must carry out a new selection procedure above that amount. That, of course, means delaying again. How do you want projects from the European Union to be implemented when basically you only use everything through administration? How many suppliers are left? A month, two. Can you even handle it? No, it's not. Why aren't we drawing European money? Why do we say 14 billion? We haven't exhausted, now we're facing over 30 billion. One of the basic things that needs to be done is to make order in public procurement, and if 28 countries of the European Union 26 have 50 percent, then why are we more papal than the Pope again? I really don't get it anymore. When I see a colleague of the Vozdecký... In order to allow the use of wine cellars and to promote tourism, there had to be a staff toilet, a toilet for visitors, a non-contact battery, and a complication. It was said: the European Union wants it. In Austria Heurige - without tax, serving meals without problems, toilet one, which was there for staff and another 50 visitors including their dog, what they had in the yard, and no one cared. Why do we complicate our lives? Why are we doing this? There are 6 350 municipalities in the Czech Republic. 6,350 municipalities, of which 4,000 to 2,000 inhabitants. Many do not use European money at all for this reason, because they fear that they must then return the money, how complicated it is, how the authorities drive them. I envied the mayor of Schattenberg. When he needed a big project in Austria to do something, he went to Weinviertel Management in Zistersdorf, an organization that, by the way, is financed partly from the government and otherwise lives on European Union projects when he prepares the project, carries out a tender, and the mayor is not always dehonested by doing something wrong or having to return money. That's a system changer. No law on public procurement, no amendment to the Public Procurement Act will be perfect enough to change the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u35	Thank you, Mr Petrů. Now, with Mr Laudát's point of fact, Mr Bendl followed by Mr Stanjura, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at the limit of 50 per cent through simple buildings, whether they are houses of one or the other kind or the road, is one thing, but for complex buildings, where the combination of building parts with complex technologies that last a long time, it is not excessive at all. And if the whole of Europe, with one exception, has agreed to do so, it knows very well why. During the period when such works are being built - I will not mention Blanka now, but in standard terms, when it lasts two to four years - there are such technological innovations, and if you do not want to put into operation perhaps transport-intensive subway buildings, which are obsolete already when you are putting them into operation, there is simply no common sense, the decision-making. And realize that it seems huge, but if one circuit court has already given a precedent, and that's not in the amendment, that's what's not going to happen, that's what's not going to happen, that's common sense, and it's supposed to be an absolute amount, not that we're not going to add up the pluses and the negatives. So if you want to put the state-of-the-art technology in there during the course of the company's offer, then of course you have to generate changes in the building, the building parts, and then the whole technology is actually getting to you. This means that it looks ridiculous, but then we get to the exact cases that they have to plan even the type of lights, and then they take away their European subsidies or they're accused of being blamed by the police because the company no longer manufactures the lamps. [[Attention on time.]] So it's just not like that. For simple structures, I would understand, but not for complex ones. And please do not send our subsidies from the European Union to the declasing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u37	I thank Mr Laudát. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Bendl. Mr Bendl honors a higher authority, that is, his chairman, and he prefers it. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u38	Thank you. First of all, I want to assure those who are concerned that the unused European funds are unnecessary concern. If the EIA passes in the government's version, it doesn't matter what the Public Procurement Act will be - we don't spend a single euro. To join the debate a little bit about the two delicate points we have today. One. Secondly, good news for the Chamber of Deputies as the social atmosphere changes. If we were to make these amendments, which we are now completely factually arguing, someone is in favour, someone is opposed, we are pointing out the risks and the negatives, two and a half years ago in the House, so we are labeled corrupters, people who want to steal all the money and so on. The atmosphere has completely changed, and that's good. Let me just remind you of other laws where we think we're under a lot of media pressure, that it's just not like that. We succumbed, I sat in the House. Eventually, the House resigned and said: we are not going into this fight. No one had the courage to propose amendments so that he would not be called a corrupter. Practice has shown it's wrong. But it's not the ideal way, it's gotten to thousands of mayors and other contracting entities who were basically innocent. But then the House didn't have the courage, and I was a member of the government coalition, standing up to it and pushing for rational proposals. The fact that it succeeded quite calmly without debate to increase the limits for small orders, which were then hysterical and the original proposal was that even construction work should be a limit of 1 million. [[unintelligible]] In the end, there were three, now there are six. Turns out, in the end, it's not as big a deal as it looked in the public debate two and a half or three years ago. I want to say what I miss about the novel. And since I was a government MP, even the head of a government club, I know these: we are preparing a better, new, brand-new law, now we haven't made it, let's at least support the amendment. We said it too, so don't just take it as a criticism of the opposition at all costs. I still miss the fact that references can't be the criterion. That you get a basically worthless sheet, where there's a list of buildings they've built, and it's either there or it's not, and there's nothing you can do about it. I'm sure municipal policy colleagues will confirm that we have the same experience. The company that won us the contract sloppy implementation because it cut the price, didn't want to hold the guarantee, we had to sue them, often fix it for their own money, year, two, three, four years to get the money back from them. Or, on the contrary, we started it against the last invoice, the contractor sued the city, the contractor, and it went back months and years. It's always the same. Which one of you would choose to build a garage or a family house without asking who the house had already been built if the house had fallen in three years, if it wasn't leaking into that roof? It's perfectly normal and rational. Once again, we do not place a reference among possible evaluation criteria, a key point. I understand that this cannot be an absolute criterion. Let us debate that references can only be of some weight, so that references do not prevail again, and therefore they did not automatically win the highest offers, meaninglessly high, just because the evaluation committee gives great references and lowers them to others. That's not there at all. Secondly, there is nothing that really hinders the drawing of European money and, in particular, the drawing of public money, and when it is European money, I think that is absolutely - how would I put it politely? [[unintelligible]] - an incredibly long time to decide the UOHS. We who have experience of how large transport orders were placed at the UOHS for billions of crowns and the UOHS did not decide eight, ten, twelve, fourteen days, months. We've always suspected that there's a deal going on in the background of the waiting, in the back between the contracting authorities, if there could be any sub-deliveries and what couldn't be done. And I think it would be wise for us to set limits in the law for the decision-making of the UOHS and, on the other hand, to increase the fees for filing to the Office for the Protection of Competition and, if it turns out that the submission was in principle merely obstructive, to be forfeited for the benefit of the State or this office. That's what I think is a sensible thing I miss again. [[17.30 hours]] To limits. Colleagues who support it, and I understand them, are based on the assumption that everyone is doing a good thing. First, by increasing it, I think we're legalizing poor-quality work. If we say we need to increase the limit because there are project errors and project errors, so by increasing it, we will not increase the quality of the projects, we will only contribute to winning the lowest prices in the design competitions, we will get bad projects and then the contracting entity will be in trouble because it will show up during the construction that something has to change all the time. I don't want to talk about archeological research, it's a chapter for myself, they do what they want, there's no train, they don't care about deadlines, no prizes, it's the contracting authority. We should turn around. If the state wants and wants archaeological research, it has to pay for it. And then the state will also check whether companies are progressing quickly, well, and whether they want adequate prices or excessive prices. That makes sense. Not for the poor mayor to find out that they're gonna kick his ass twice, he's gonna get the archaeologists rushing in right now, they're gonna end up in December, then it's cold, what you're gonna build by March, and then they're gonna come back in March, what if they find one more bone, right? They'll start again in March, they'll be working for a few months, because they don't have dates, they've always refused, we don't know, Mr. Mayor, we'll see what we can find, we can't tell you. But raising it doesn't solve the problem. It may simplify the administration, but it will not simplify or improve the quality of work. I am convinced that where there will be a 50% increase, it was a low-quality project or a low-quality or non-serious supplier offer. Fifty percent is an incredible price. Of course, it would be much better if we used common sense and said that the contract could be increased by 20 percent against the competitive price. That makes sense. And I'm behind it, because if I'm gonna pay more than 20 percent before I compete, it's wrong. Today we have an absurd situation that you will compete for a $10 million contract, you will make four million changes, the total price is nine, and yet you have broken the law. In the end you do it cheaper, but because you add up more jobs and you can no longer deduct less jobs, so even though the resulting price is smaller, actually the contracting authority, the mayor, is finished because it's over 20 percent and actually doesn't know what the normal logical solution is. So I'd expect the Ministry to propose a way to change that. Not that we can raise the price by 50 percent, because where there's no good intentions and someone throws you the price and then the 50 percent just runs, instead of 10 million you pay 15. And it will not be a mistake of the designer, or it will be a mistake of the designer, it is necessary that the contracting authorities also have the leverage of those designers so that they can get the money out of them to be legal, they are also very often well insured, but it is not used, and it is also necessary to mention our absurd system of our own audit bodies for drawing European money. What I have experienced, as I always say, are mostly young officials and young officials who know ten languages, but they will argue with me that the pavement is not communication, that the sidewalk is next to communication. And you can explain to them a hundred times that the sidewalk is fourth-class communication - but no, you're wrong. Or, for example, if we score this very well, we have a methodology for it, so every smart mayor knows he has to write a project according to methodology, not according to healthy common sense. So if you write that this is going to be evaluated by a person who understands it, you get one point. And if you write that we're going to have a team of ten people who are going to evaluate and manage it financially, you're going to get ten points because a big team is quality, and if you give personal responsibility, it's suspicious. And now I could continue at one point after another. I understand the interest associations and the professional public in the construction industry that they don't like that they don't count down less jobs. That's a perfectly legitimate and correct request. I just don't think the solution that's chosen is right. Instead of logically counting down the fewer jobs and counting the 20 percent to the competitive price, we're going to say that it could be 50 percent to the competitive price. We're gonna get in the same trouble. Anyway, the mayors will be accused of agreeing with the company because instead of 10 million they will pay 15, you will not explain to anyone that it was a project error, and you will also not explain to companies that failed, which they wrote for example. The right price is $13 million. So the question to the Minister is whether in the amendment under consideration - and I do not share the optimism of my previous speakers. The experience I have in 16 years, every novel was only worse than the previous one. And it doesn't matter which government it was, whether it was ours when we were in the coalition or we were in opposition. Everyone was just worse. It's growing all the time. If you take the number of paragraphs, it keeps growing. We want to describe in detail everything we want, but then the institutions don't work. The ÚOHS doesn't work. For example, Jihočech Boys will confirm it. In November 2013, the Office for the Protection of Competition returned to the contracting authority, in this case ŘSD, a two-section D3 contract for a new decision and a renegotiation within the Commission. The Commission has not yet met - and we are in December 2014. Thirteen months later. It's not a matter of the law, it's a matter of the fact that these people don't want to make decisions because they're afraid. So it was explained to me by the then Minister of Transport that he simply could not get a full commission to decide. And European money was supposed to be pumped into that event. And in 13 months, the contracting authority has done nothing. But it's also because these people often have a legitimate concern, that's what needs to be said, because if there's a problem somewhere, it's almost never on the evaluation committee. It's almost always an Excel tablet where something is calculated and signed. Very often it is in the tender documentation. If someone's fouling, they're fouling the procurement documents. In that detail, if there's not a parameter that meets only one or two companies or a maximum of three, that narrows the number of potential candidates for this contract. So I would ask the Minister if she could say whether the problems I was talking about, first of all, the establishment of fixed deadlines for the Office for the Protection of Competition, second of all, the reference as a criterion of evaluation, whether at least these two points are considered and will be presented to the Government and then to the Chamber of Deputies. I think it would really help. For 50 percent I tell you all: consider whether it is a good way, if it is not better, and I can not write it on legislation, I expected it to come from government legislation, simply count against more work less work, it has logic, because on every construction there is some change, I do not know any construction from the smallest to the largest, that there is no change during construction. That's what I think is just unrealistic, whether you're doing it privately or from public sources. About what my honored colleague František Laudát said about technology and large buildings. I'm sure he's right on one side. If I have a 20-billion-dollar event, it's really a big deal, so 50 percent is 10 billion. Ten billion to go. And that's not technological change? No one's going to tell me that for $10 billion, if we approve it, we're going to be able to increase the price from $20 billion to $10 billion, if we talk about really big complex technologically challenging actions. But if we count less jobs, that means it could be plus 10 billion, but the total price stays the same, so it's absolutely right to understand what the problem is. The problem is that less jobs don't count from more work, from the limit. This is a fundamental problem and I miss this bill because it would be much more logical, it would actually respond to technological changes or to findings during construction as well as improvement or reduction of construction during construction. On the other hand, it would prevent someone from deliberately cutting the price, and then trying to constantly raise prices with officials on inspection days, let's say from 20 to 50 percent, because 50 percent will be absolute, that is, if there are fewer jobs zero, so when this amendment passes with amendments, it is legal for less work to be 50 percent. You tell me, who support it, whether it is normal to prepare such a building when your price increases by 50 percent. In my opinion, it isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u39	Thank you to President Stanjur. Mr Bendl, Mr Blažek after him, Mr Laudát after him, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief, then, because much has been said by Zbyněk Stanjura, my previous speaker. I wanted to assure my dear colleague from the Committee on Public Administration through the President that the fact that the Czech Republic is not drawing on European money as it wished is not because we have not raised the limit by doing more than 20 percent to 50. Much more fundamental causes are the clouds. [[17.40 hours]] One of them, for example, that the Czech Republic drew European money about a year later, perhaps more than a year later in the last parliamentary term, or a financial period. Just as it will probably happen now, because at first maybe in the fall of next year, as I see it, unlike other countries, for example, from Slovák who will draw money earlier on transport infrastructure, we will be pumping a year later because we are not ready again. However, if there is one such construction, then I say, and indeed, there are not thousands of them. We once had hundreds of competitions in the Central Bohemia Region per year, and we had three more jobs in eight years. Three more jobs. The law, the simpler it is, the more transparent and better it is, the more responsibility you can take on individuals. That's what Stanjura said. The more paragraphs, the more broken, the more inconspicuous, and you barely know anything. When my colleague Stanjura mentioned the monuments, I saw the secretary collapse. However, this is a huge topic too. And it should be part of these things, because I know from practice that we didn't just stop construction, which cost us some money, but it brought us huge costs. If the state is interested, and I say that the state must be interested in protecting monuments, its historical heritage, then it should not carry investors who want to change some things, but the state, if it is interested in doing excavations, protecting its monuments and the like, then it also has to pay. And not only to the public administration, but also to private people who repair theirs, I'll say, subjects, objects and the like, where the state tells them whether a gutter like this, a window like this, a roof like that - and not give them a penny for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u41	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, with another factual remark, Mr Laudát. After that, Mr Beznoska, Mr Birke. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. Sorry, I forgot Mr Blažek. He's obviously upset, I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u42	Thank you. Blažek will calm down. [[Laughs of several Members from the left side of the hall.]] I just want to say to my colleague Stanjur. But I'm adding it because it's just pluses, but it's not minuses. Of course, this isn't about the absolute amount. Then, of course, as the amendment is built, you will pull out a certain spectrum of cases, and if you want to do it in general, but the problem is that then we really look like crooks in front of Europe, which we may have earned in part right, but partly not. Because no one, if they don't have such hard laws, then they're great grant drawers. Whereas we don't. That's just the problem. And when you talk to them, they say, "Well, that's the fact that you have tougher laws, and according to the Germans, you could fit, according to the Czechs, not and will be corrected, and we'll take it away from you and you'll pay a fine. But that's your problem, what laws you approve of. All we ask of you is to obey the laws you have adopted. It's really a problem, Madam Secretary is innocent. If Mrs Jourová, instead of having full-page interviews in the Hospodářské noviny, had simply made a contract revolution, and promised us this by the end of June, a technical amendment, and told me by the end of the year that she might not make it, but by the turn of the new year that the transposition of the European directive would be ready, and then by the time she left for Brussels, she told me that she was actually two years old. So it's two years. But if we're listening to a new candidate for the minister and his orientation after yesterday's performance at the Transport Department, I don't think there's gonna be much going on anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u43	I thank Mr Laudát. After Mr Laudát, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u44	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to go free on my colleague Stanjura. Look, he talked, and very well, about the fact that there is a certain fear in the field of contracting authorities of certain prosecutions, the lack of clarity of some legal interpretations and so on. All I'm saying here is that the best law can't solve this. I would like to ask the Minister, it would be very good to discuss this law with the Minister of Justice and with the Minister of the Interior. The reason is simple. The problem is that there are hundreds of interpretations of what is criminal and what is not, especially in this area, in terms of the practice of law enforcement authorities. So if some mayor, who comes from, say, Karlovy Vary, and they're doing a certain selection procedure, the local prosecutor doesn't say anything. But the mayor will read in the paper that someone is being prosecuted for the same thing in Ostrava. There's a way out of this, I'm not saying it solves everything. But basically, both some police authorities and perhaps the state's attorney-in-chief have the opportunity to issue some unifying positions. If this does not happen in terms of executive power, unfortunately, no matter how we make the law today, we can again leave the mayors, but not only the mayors, this also applies to universities and other entities, in the legal uncertainty that one or the other police officer, one or the other prosecutor, will proceed in a different way. Let me make one more confession. When I was in that government, I was unsuccessful in this matter. There was even a meeting at the level of the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Justice and Interior. I admit that it was at the end of that government, but we have not been able to appeal to the law enforcement authorities to conduct some such unifying practice because I consider it necessary. I also do not want to leave out that the Supreme Court can give opinions which are generally binding in nature. Not quite, but they have a unified case lawsuit. Without that, we won't find the legal certainty, and we'll always be in this vacuum where no one will ever be sure if it's a good decision, even though nothing is stolen and nothing disappears.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u45	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Beznoska, Mr Birke after him, Mr Stanjura after him, Mr Hovorka after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will mention very briefly the three points that have been raised here, and I would like to remind them. First thing. Personally, I think the whole public procurement law could have one sentence. "The competitive price must be normal in place and in time." It's kind of a thoughtful thing to do. My point is that the whole law should really be simplified. I would very much support the mayor's and fellow Member Birke's words that the key to making the whole competition okay is to make it an excellent project and pre-project preparation. There lies the first of the keys. As for the things that complicate our life in practice, I would join Zbyněk Stanjura's words and point out that it is necessary to consider the role of the Office for Competition, the time interval of its decision-making, or the amount of the bail of the person making the complaint, because I myself have experienced and I am actually experiencing that the bridge is not open, when the whole construction has only extended to two appeals by one and a half years. So it's kind of a tiny notic. And the third thing, and also colleagues, have already talked about it, we have been talking about monuments and archaeological research. In our town I experienced the fact that we found a dead man who wasn't lying east-west, but lying north-south, and that was an excuse to deploy a 24-hour archaeological survey. This rescue archaeological survey cost CZK 24 million and delayed the entire construction by 11 months. I'm very lucky to be standing here with you because they wanted to shoot me doing business in Old Town Square, as innocent as I am in this and in pre-project preparation we made probes based on the requirements of archaeologists. It's just the things that bring life, and then I understand that they need to be dealt with. So that's another point. And the last thing I don't want to keep, and also time, is 20 percent. I think from the logic of the thing I'm telling you here, when there's good pre-project and project preparation, then the limit of 20 percent is definitely enough. Fifty percent, I'd be very careful there. [[Attention on time.]] And one short finish: it's nice to have excellent building supervision. Otherwise, you're in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u47	Thank you, honourable Member. Now with a point of fact, not yet with priority rights, Mr Birke. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President, I think not for a long time. Thank you so much for this debate. I think it's amazing because, in a position of 20 to 50 percent, we discussed basically the entire law on public procurement. I think everything was mentioned here. But let me just mention one more bizarre thing that happened directly to me as mayor of the city, with which you basically don't know what to do. Well, you know, you hit the table and you sort it out. [[17.50 hours]] Very briefly. You will get a subsidy from the European Union for the construction of sewerage. You write the tender, you write the contract. Of course, the designer is so gorgeous that you get to an excellent price. You will have four candidates under the Public Procurement Act. It will win the first candidate with a fairly decent price for $7 million. Sorry, it's gonna win the first contender to shoot the $4 million prize. And the second is worth $7.5 million. And project-wise, that's ten. You say, that's great. However, for $4 million, the man is unable to build it. You call him, and he says to you, "Mr. Mayor, we're gonna build this, 100%, you can count on it." In a week, when you're before you sign the contract, he steps away from the contract. He'll resign! You have two options - either you cancel the whole thing or you give it to the other candidate for CZK 7 million. But what's the problem? If you cancel, you lose your subsidy from the European Union, and you have to pay it all from the city's budget. The subsidy is 85 percent. So I'm not talking about the twenty and fifty. I'm talking about the system. Just so that all of you, colleagues, can imagine what all the mayors sitting in this room, what they're dealing with. That's ad a). A ad b). I am very glad that this debate has begun. But I can't make it. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u49	I'm being kind myself, colleague. [[Member Jana Černochová walks to the microphone.]] Excuse me, Madam. I have three colleagues here. Mr Stanjura, first of all, with a factual point - and he prefers you. He's a gentleman. I knew it from him. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Maybe I could finish the story for my colleague Birke. Well, if you can make the donation in time to invest in your act that happened, then three years from now, four years from now, you're doing the monitoring reports, you're all there to watch the monitoring reports, you're sending them to all sorts of institutions, but in four years, you're going to have someone write you a letter that's going to review the contract like it just happened to us. It is said: but so the contract was slightly lower - the first prize. How is it possible that the city section chose the other part? And no one cares that, in the meantime, the UOHS has examined it, and you are at risk of returning the European subsidy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u51	I thank the Member for her point of view. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u52	First of all, I expected a little bit of the Minister's involvement in the debate and that he would at least try to give us an answer. If he leaves it to the final word, we'll only be able to respond with priority rights again. But it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u53	I'm sorry, I have to defend the secretary here. The Minister is not a Member and cannot make a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u54	I wasn't talking about facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u55	He can only have priority rights. And so far, we have half an hour of factual remarks. So as soon as the de facto remarks are over, Madam Secretary will be involved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u56	Mr. Vice-President, don't interrupt me. [[Vice-President Gazdík: I'm sorry.]] Although you disagree with me, I have not broken the Rules of Procedure. You may not like what I'm saying, but you have no right to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u57	Yes, I don't. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u58	Thank you very much. That wasn't a hostile remark. I said it would be nice to have a conversation with the secretary. It wasn't exactly friendly to the Vice-President, but he started it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u59	I wanted to defend the lady. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u60	And he's doing it to me again. [[Laughs in the hall.]] He's entering my debate again, even if he doesn't. I want to go back. The Minister said in the introductory words that he could not agree with the amendment adopted by the Economic Committee on Legal Services. I want to ask, in particular, those points concerning arbitration or conciliation, whether it is really our concern that contracting entities succeed in these proceedings or that they should choose the cheapest law firm. That's completely different. These are special cases. And the secretary said that the ministry is fundamentally opposed or strongly opposed, if I haven't found the right expression, so I'm sorry, it's not that I want to move that expression anywhere. On the contrary, I think that the economic committee proposal is going in the right direction, because it is crucial to succeed - not to have cheap legal representation, but to succeed in arbitration or conciliation proceedings conducted either with us, in a third country or with an international arbitration or conciliation body. There I consider the proposed condition to be correct, this exception. And it's also up to the public inspection to see if she's being abused. And the result is simple. If a law firm is chosen to contribute to winning arbitration or conciliation proceedings, it has been chosen well. If a firm is chosen that does not contribute to this, on the contrary, it will contribute to the loss of the contracting entity, so it was chosen badly, although it may have had cheaper legal services, because those legal services are always much lower than the amount at stake. I am not a member of the Economic Committee, so I did not take part in the meeting or the vote, but I would like to support the opinion of the Economic Committee. If I'm wrong and there are some arguments that tell us why we're against it, I'd like to hear them because I think there's more damage here. And it happens in every business. Even in those legal services where many try to give a low price to get to the contract. And now I'm not going to speculate what you're doing with those low prices, whose interests are ultimately defending you. That's very problematic about arbitration and conciliation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-02-ps2013-023-01-006-012.u61	I thank Mr Stanjur. Again, I'm sorry I interrupted him. Madam Secretary is constantly reporting, but I still have two factual points. First, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. [[The President of the House of Hamáček from the seat in front of the government bench warns Vice-President Gazdík that the Prime Minister is already present in the hall.]] I apologise to Mr Hovorka, because we have now fulfilled the condition with which the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was interrupted on paragraph 7, and this is the presence of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is obviously present, so I am interrupting item No. 12, which is a government bill on public procurement. Let's go back to interrupted point number
