ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u1	27. Věra Jourová, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 26/ - Second reading We will now continue the interrupted general debate. Mr Komárek spoke last time and his speech was suspended. I therefore ask Mr Komárek if he wants to continue his interrupted speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. After that, Mr. Václav Klučka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u2	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u3	Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. I will also ask that Mr Farský and Mr Marek Benda fill the position at the rapporteur's table for the appellants. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u4	Thank you. So I'm gonna start again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was interrupted last time by lunch, which was probably a good thing because the debate was very passionate. I'm gonna go back to her little girl. I'd like her to be more relevant. What I want to go back to. My colleague Jermanová has tabled an amendment setting limits on the length of speech and bringing certain rules into the House's negotiations. Then a shower of factual remarks came down, because we all know that it will be our turn if we are not given a priority right, only if we have a two-minute factual remark. So we basically proved that in those two minutes we can say everything we want. And, in fact, we were right about this amendment by my colleague Jermanová. What she was attacked in. I'm not going to deal with the arguments that he's returning us to North Korea. I think it's undignified to argue on the grounds of this old House. It's embarrassing, and we all know it. But, of course, there is a very serious argument that Parliament is something that is quite sovereign, where we really are representatives of the people. We have been elected, we have a great responsibility and, of course, the opposition, in particular, should not be restricted in a democratic state in its rights. I completely agree with that, although some of the words that Oliver Cromwell said when the British Parliament was dissolved could also apply to this - I will not quote, we can all find them. And that's what normal people think of us. I simply say, I absolutely honor democracy, the right of the opposition. A kolegyně, Jermanová, and an MP, who may support this amendment, yes. However, the debate has shown that sometimes the rules of democracy do not, at least by mouth, honor the opponents of this amendment. My colleague Jermanová has been accused by some Members that she does not respect the agreement. Others, more honest or more informed Members from the nasty camp - I repeat, from the nasty camp - have set them straight. There was no such agreement. Of course, my colleague Jermanová and I honor the amendment to the bill that was agreed. But that does not mean that every Member cannot submit his amendments. And, of course, we're here to vote. I feel and understand that most Members oppose this proposal. It's perfectly all right. If we do not enforce this proposal, we will honor this House's decision. They also say it's an election campaign. This is indeed a complete misunderstanding, as the idle politician would say today fortunately. There's no campaign here. We're proposing something, we're proposing it seriously, and we want to convince you of it in all decency. Why do I think that's better, as my colleague Jermanová suggests? In my second speech only very briefly, I will make another small amendment very briefly. I really honestly think that it will be better, that it will give order to the House and that it will give us better dignity in the eyes of people. I don't think anybody really understands our eternal screaming, screaming, constantly reacting. Sure. This is where everyone can say, if it comes down to the order, when priority rights and factual remarks are replaced, and he waits and stays here sitting in those uncomfortable benches, so he can say as long as he wants what he wants. Why not? It's a model that works. It works badly for me, but it works. It's nothing undemocratic, nothing stupid, nothing to insult. The fact that our voters don't like it, the way it works, might not be an argument, even though it is an argument for me personally. I'm just saying, I believe that if we all volunteered to make certain rules, it would work a little better. Like I believe that the political system, where the majority electoral order is, works better than a political system with a proportional electoral order. But there are different opinions about it. But how can I try to change the electoral order? It's just that I'm gonna win some choices, and I'm gonna get a chance to push it through. Similarly, we want to promote the amendment of the Rules of Procedure perfectly democratically. If we lose it, we can suggest it another time, some other time. So I ask that this debate be conducted in a matter of fact. I know it's a little bit of a proposal now that can be used against us again. If it were possible to change the Rules of Procedure for a trial period to see if it didn't work better the way we propose it, I would be totally up for it. And if it didn't work, I'd be the first to say, let's go back to that old system where everyone can say what they want. Maybe I've been talking for longer than the five minutes that-- [[Voices from the diaper.]] Oh, please, I want to have some more fun. I want to have some more fun because I assume that you will all vote in favour of the new Rules of Procedure. And I'm not stalling anybody, because we have fixed points for nineteen o'clock. I just wanted to ask - let's just be normal. I'm saying it's a proposal that's not meant to be wrong. It's meant to be normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u5	Thank you, Mr Komárek, for coming in almost ten minutes. He made several factual remarks, and two priority rights. Mr Laudát, Mr Blažek, Mr Fiedler, Mr Jandák. Please. Mr. Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must stand up for the Slávek of Jandák. What he said here about North Korea is from my point of view and from my point of view about democracy and citizens' rights and the like, so it was completely appropriate. You know, we're fundamentally different, or I'm fundamentally different from Mr. Babiš and his associates in that you want to build a bad state, I believe in people, and I want them to have free hands, they have democracy, even at the cost of finding some crooks, as ex-miss Paroubek said, and they're taking advantage of the system. But I still believe it more than you do. I wanted to comment on my colleague Komárek, but I admit I won't, because I don't think it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u7	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr Blažek, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u8	Hello. Thank you for the floor. First of all, quite friendly to Mr Komárek through you. Oliver Cromwell could not dissolve the British parliament because there was no such thing in his life. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] But that's the other thing I didn't want to talk about. You know, when it comes to these proposals, for example, my colleague Jermanová, it's sometimes important who's proposing what. And it is important because some representatives, and I am not saying that everyone, especially the YES movement, is expressing themselves on Parliament in a way that there is a reasonable suspicion that this Parliament is somehow not fit for today, when everything is supposed to work, and that there may be somewhere behind everything that Parliament can be limited, if not abolished. It reminds me of the sentence of a Prussian politician. After they introduced democratic reforms in Prussia, he then said a beautiful sentence: It is not appropriate for us to abolish the constitution through the state administration. How do we know that the initial amendments to the Rules of Procedure should not lead, through amendments to the Rules of Procedure, to the abolition of the essential functions which Parliament has or is to have? And that's the whole point. When social democracy comes up with a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, I confess, I will also say something nice about it, I do not suspect that they want to fundamentally change the system of functioning this political system. But don't be angry, after some of the statements made by the ANO representatives, we simply cannot be sure of this and we cannot know when these proposed changes will end and if they do not end, as I have already said, by liquidating Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. Another factual point - Mr Fiedler, after Mr Jandák. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Through Mr President, I would like to address Mr Komárek. Your President calls this House a blabbermouth. And if you're talking about wanting to have a good time here, don't be angry, your chairman wouldn't be so happy about this performance of yours, which was more of a gibberish. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u11	I thank Mr Fiedler. Another, with a factual remark, by Mr Jandák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be gentler to my coalition partners. kolega Komárek's colleague through the President: You know, Mr colleague, always those who began to sneak democracy around a little bit, leaning, editing, always ended badly. And if I marry my colleague Jermanová. What has the colleague done here, and what does the golden handwriting say in the history of this House? First, she forbids us to drink, second, she forbids us to talk, and third, to think. I think that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u13	I thank Mr Jandák. With another factual remark, Mr Faltýnek, after which Mr Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I understand this political debate here. I beg the substance of this debate and, if possible, the temporal nature. It's a request to all of us. Just one sentence on my part. We have tried in some rational debate that may have been less rational at times, your colleagues, to convince you that we wanted to make the House of Deputies more effective. Obviously, we are still failing to do so, but I am asking for substance in this debate. Let's talk about other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u15	I thank Mr Faltýnek. With another factual remark, Mr Komárek, after whom Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u16	Thank you. I'm not gonna respond to colleagues who dull me. I'm kind of proud of it. Please, this isn't about democracy. We all, not just us, but all those who are watching us know that they are democratic, absolutely democratic parliaments, where there is a limit to speaking. And then there are democratic, absolutely democratic parliaments where there is no limit. So please don't talk about democracy. When someone proposes limits, they don't talk about democracy, they talk about the rules of the House's work. If you really think the German Bundestag is undemocratic, please write it down, tell the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u17	I thank Mr Komárek. With another factual remark, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u18	I have no choice but to thank my colleague, Mr Faltýnek, through Mr President, for bringing me back to my fleeting youth. Just do the foul against the agreement, propose something absolutely incorrect, something that some of us consider very dangerous, and then rise up against those who object and say: let's be factual, let's be correct, let's have peace of mind, let's be serious. My colleague, when and where have I ever heard this before?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u19	I thank Mr Kalousek. I have three more factual points here. First of all, Mr Roman Kubíček, after him Mr Pavel Blažek, after him Mrs Putnová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies from this point of view that a consensual proposal has been passed by the Committee on Constitutional Law, which will somehow improve Parliament's work. Thank you for that, too. I don't think there's any need to attack. It's progress. And I thank you for this progress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u21	I thank Mr Kubíček. With another factual remark, Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u22	Thank you for the floor. A brief response by you to the words of Mr Komárek and Mr Faltýnek. I didn't say the word democracy. And the reason is simple. Unfortunately, no one really knows what democracy is. I am not saying that when the Rules of Procedure change a little bit, that it is a direct restriction of democracy, but I say and I am right to compare that the fact that something is and works in a country does not mean that we are still mature enough to make it work in our country or, on the contrary, we are more mature than elsewhere and other things are working again. It's non-transferable stuff. Germany has, paradoxically, Germany, after everything it's been through, when it's - in terms of some procedures, it could be our role model, but it's taken them a long time, and we, unfortunately, haven't had that much time in modern history yet. As far as Mr Faltýnek is concerned, nothing personal, but all those who have restricted parliaments have always said one word - efficiency. We will increase the efficiency of the state by limiting parliament, and everyone has always said so. And I say again: I don't see anybody in particular here wanting this, but I can't be sure of some of the statements that it's either unthinkable or thoughtful, it doesn't have to end this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u23	I thank Mr Blažek. Furthermore, Mrs Anna Putnová, with a factual point, followed by Mr Karel Fiedler, with a factual point. Then perhaps priority rights. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u24	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Several comments on the comparison of the German Parliament with the Czech Parliament. I hear a legacy a lot here. I would like to inform Mr Komárek, through Mr President, that this is a completely different system of legislation. It is true that there is a time grant for individual points in the German Parliament, but it must be said that in such a case the work consists primarily of committees, and then it means that what is common practice in our country, loading amendments from the plenary, completely contradicts the practice that you give us as a model. So, in my opinion, it's not possible to choose from individual systems what we like and question it like raisins. We just have a different system that regulates the different nature of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u25	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. Furthermore, with the factual remark of Mr Fiedler, after which Mr Okamura made his point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u26	Thank you for the floor. One more time. I'm sorry, Mr President, I'm just going to take a little turn. I would like to follow up on the call that has been made here, through Mr President, by President Faltýnek, so that we can work effectively to make it more effective. And now - it is not personally against you, President Faltýnek, but in general - let us recapitulate this afternoon. We started at 2:00. We spent an hour discussing the agenda for today's meeting. There was an hour's break, and then we're guessing, I don't know exactly, about 20 to 25 minutes to vote on individual points. So the effectiveness of our work in this House in those two and a half hours was very slim. [[A voice from the diaper: Thanks to whom, colleague!]] When someone here reminds you of how much this House costs for an hour, and that's very relative, let's think about it. I call on you to act really effectively, and I renounce my application to a proper discussion in terms of efficiency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u27	I thank Mr Fiedler. If there is no other - Mr Okamura's factual comment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only briefly. This is where we talked about efficiency. Unfortunately, I've gotten used to the fact that when Komárek's colleague here goes to the microphone, it's a bit of a show, especially when it's filled with Mr. Jandák, but at least it's a professional performance. 'Cause I have to say for myself, you guys are calling for a thing here, but you're using words like, "I'm having a good time here, just give me a few more minutes to enjoy it." Sorry, we never said at dawn that we were enjoying it at the microphone. Such a disparagement of the work and the substance of the House of Deputies that I am going to enjoy, so I really do not understand your suggestions. Come in. Just as my colleague Fiedler mentioned here, today's program is the only reason why we are unable to sort out the program so that we don't have to vote on it for an hour, so we're stuck here. Service law - 80 amendments, of which dozens of government MEPs. And you will give us that we are only allowed to speak twice in the debate and after ten minutes! So first, prepare proper laws so that we do not have to speak to them repeatedly. But explain to me how 80 amendments to the government law, which is being prepared for six months, are to be expressed twice for ten minutes. Twice, tops! [[With emphasis:]] So start working first, and these undemocratic proposals, when you want to shut us up, you translate pasquila, and you still want to enjoy it at the microphone, don't really do that to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u29	Thank you, Mr Okamur. With another factual remark, Mr Šarapatka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u30	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I believe that these restrictions will indeed limit our democratic decision-making in the House. On the other hand, in order not to be negative about the proposal absolutely, I have to say that I quite understand the petitioner, because what happens here sometimes behind a microphone, when one person and the same person gets on one topic ten times or more times, or someone is standing here half an hour, half an hour says without saying a single thought, so I think it's also not okay. So he's got a pro-and-con pro-con. However, I think that we should be able to express ourselves democratically on the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u31	I thank Mr Šarapatek. With another factual remark, Mr Blažek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna go with the efficiency. Efficiency - What Can Be Measured in Parliament? If you look at how many laws we're gonna pass here in a month, I'd almost say we approve too many. That's not so - if we didn't pass any law for six months at all, let's talk about maybe we're not doing anything here and it's holding back. But strictly to all previous governments, that means the one in which I was, too, so I feel that there are too many laws and that we might also be able to mitigate that efficiency sometimes. If we were also able to sit down and quite normally discuss which laws really may not be needed, and maybe this would be the efficiency. But what I understand is that the restorative thinking that works in governments is that more and more laws are constantly being prepared. But in this sense, it is not possible to accuse the House of inefficiency, because there are so many laws that they are not even really familiar with professional lawyers anymore. And if he does, I don't think he's telling the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u33	Thank you for the lawyer's confession. That's all we've done for now with factual remarks. Now with priority rights, Mr President of the ODS MEP, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u34	I applied at 5:18 pm - for Mr Komárek, who says that we, the owners of the priority rights, have some privileges - and I will try to be factual. That doesn't mean I'll be brief. I was quite amused by Mr Komárek's experience. We can, without changing the law, and we can support it gentlemenly. I'm not gonna comment on a word shootout between government parties right now. Then your club president comes along, and he makes us feel like we're in business. But the gunfight was among the government MPs, but no offense. That, of course, is what we enjoy as opposition MPs, which I would lie if I said we were sorry when government MPs argue with each other. And I really don't want to lie behind a microphone. But we're still talking about how good it is to have 14 days between second and third reading. We made a deal. Why, in every law, do you propose to shorten the deadline to 48 hours at this meeting, if that's so good! Are we waiting for the law? On the contrary, nothing prevents us from proposing an extension of the deadline for 14 days, since we already have a good political agreement with which we all agree. Why, if we want to be effective, the fifth meeting day of the House of the Government Coalition will propose and pronounce 26 changes to the program! That's effective? When the rapporteurs are ready for individual points, etc. Is that effective? Or is it correct for those people who are preparing the program? It's not. But you're doing it. I voted 21 times against, four times in favour. And I think you've been up for it 25 times without checking. It's very nice to say here - let's go, my friends, for rehearsal. There's nothing stopping us. And there's nothing to prevent government MPs from continuing to do this. And if that proposal you made, not on behalf of an MP, but on behalf of a club, I remember it, as it was said, she said it here, you could look at the log, and it doesn't matter, but on behalf of a club, you wouldn't be able to sign up for the second time. I think you've already done it twice without the facts, you want to do it again, but I don't mind. But efficiency can only be measured in my opinion - if the law, if we approve it, works and improves a little bit, in the worst case, it's effective enough if it doesn't make things worse, which can't be said about many laws. And I say this regardless of the term, so that it is not understood as an attack on the current government, that the previous ones did everything very well. Generally, if the law doesn't make things worse, it's more of a success than the other way around. Very often many of us, and again from all political parties, respond - there will be a problem that is burning, and that day, at the latest the second, says one or group of Members 'we will prepare a bill amendment'. It's like the one who broke the law, the novel, it's like it discouraged him from breaking it next time, or he's not gonna do something. We were planning a meeting that was supposed to last four working days. According to a plan approved by the Organizing Committee in which most of the government coalition is held. And you included in this meeting - and I return to what my colleague Pavel Blažek said - in total either 98 or 101 bills. That's effective? In two weeks' time to vote and make a decision in a hundred laws? Maybe some of you who don't care what's in there don't have a problem. Mr Komárek said that we are in the House to vote. I think we're here to discuss it, to look for it, and to rub the argument, and then to vote. Without the first one, I think the second one is irresponsible. And the fact that some people walk repeatedly - it's not the first law today when we had the Minister of Transport a short while ago. I thought if it was to be cut short, let's say somebody asked a question, it's not always a criticism, it's just a simple question. And the overwhelming response from the government coalition is silence. And so I'm gonna ask you a second time, third time I'm gonna ask you, fourth time, and I'm still not gonna know. What's effective? If the minister answered for the first time, I haven't been here three times, and I haven't asked him to answer. I could remember when I was here tormenting my colleague, Mr. Sklenák, with 22 questions in the Service Act, he was also stubbornly silent and wouldn't tell me anything. And I was so sorry and I came to ask. [[17.50 hours]] That's why we think your proposal isn't right. Not because you or the government MP or the government club gave it to him. Because it's really not good. And if you're serious about the rehearsal, let's act like it. And we don't have to load. But we've already had four laws here today at second reading, and how many times you've raised the deadline to 48 hours. Four out of four. Last week, it was also the ones that were on Tuesday. I understand. That's what we did. Don't take it like I forgot what it was. But at least I'm not talking about how effective we need to be, how we have new, much better rules. I said from the beginning that extending the deadline between second and third reading would create complications primarily for a government coalition, any government coalition. And in my opinion, we're gonna approve, but we should have a hand-in-hand debate about our six-week cycle, which we have, which is logical here, which is gonna break down completely if we keep it. And we should have a debate about what we're proposing. If the meeting's gonna be more frequent and shorter, and in the meantime it's gonna be committee weeks, or I don't know what. But it's not enough to change the law. How many points are we gonna take out on Friday? 100, 110, 90? That's ridiculous. Our bills have been here since March - and we are in September. They can't even make it to the first reading. Well, at least reject them if you don't agree with it at the first reading. I understand you're against it. You're not convinced. But we want to discuss them, and we want to tell you and the public why we suggested them, why we think it's good, and you have to tell them why you think it's wrong. But it's here, it's postponed. I was talking about it last week when we were debating, and I'm saying I'm not going to bet, but I'm going to take a guess how many of our proposals are going to be discussed. I already know that today. Zero. On Thursday there were interpelations after three months and remember. The Prime Minister was here, that's to be appreciated. And there were about four or five ministers. I don't know now. After three months, the other ten eleven did not make time on Thursday to come and answer. And then we would shorten the debates on other points, because we have no room for the government to answer. You may have suggested that we report in writing to the debate. I consider it impractical, but I offer a compromise. I don't think that if we could sign up for a debate, not really, from a place, from a voting machine, I don't see any problem with that, because I can react immediately and the manager sees it and we don't have to say, oh, look left, he's already reporting, he's looking right. In my opinion, I've already said that in the last term, then I was told that it couldn't be technically possible. I think, as a programmer, that it is possible that when there is a debate, I do not vote, so I can easily say that I have factual and delayed, so it can be yes and the application for a debate and the problem is eliminated. We do not have a problem if the President looks left to right and sees or does not see, clearly jumps in order calmly on this and the request for written is met. We just don't want to run like we did at the paper office, that before I write it down before I do it, a clever management meeting will end that point, that no one who doesn't report to the debate. So if we're gonna have this rational discussion, I think I'm gonna find it. And only for the Members who are here for the first term. I know it looks like a fairy tale today, but when I joined here as a new Member in 2010, I fought to get materials in electronic form and according to the law, the law, this law, we got these stacks every week. [[unintelligible]] Imagine that every MP was getting stacks of printed materials, and so we didn't see what we see like this. So even this I think has improved that you can see at least how many are logged in, in which order, but it wasn't easy to change the routines that were here in these details. I thought it would be a while, you know. We won't have paperwork from tomorrow, we'll get it electronically. Yeah, but it's in the law. When it comes to the Rules of Procedure Act, it's not easy for us to agree to change just this thing. There was a lot of stuff going on right away, and the law preparation was longer than today. On the contrary, I consider the debate in the committees to be effective and useful at first reading today, because the compromise that I think was born in the IDA to prove its functionality that it will slightly improve its functioning. But even the new law won't make sure the ministers are here on Thursday. I'd even ban the papers on the interpellations, even the topics. Normally, face-to-face, it'd be more interesting without the paperwork. There are parliaments where it works. You know how it is. You're gonna interpel. If you are drawn, four parliamentary secretaries will be following me in a minute, as happened to me last Thursday, and Mr President, tell me what it will be about. I understand. They want to get the evidence ready. It's also not reasonable if I want to ask the minister about some kind of detail: there's a Z subcontract in the XY contract, which has a contract for how much? But I think it might be faster, and if we were to say that we weren't gonna read the speeches here and talk downstairs, I'd just welcome it. There's nothing worse than any minister of any government reading these materials as opening words that are being prepared by the authorities, including addressing them. I think it's useless work, and it's often forgotten the key. I think the Minister or the plaintiff should say two things here. First things first. If we approve, what's gonna get better. And secondly, if there are any sanctions or obligations, how do we enforce them? Once we have a satisfactory answer to that, it is still worth fighting over the wording of specific paragraphs. Until then, the debate is really depersonalized, hundreds of materials, hundreds of pages, including all the messages that come with it. But the basic... Again, we do not need the Rules of Procedure. If we make a deal and hold it up, so that the law-maker, whether he's a minister or a MP or a group of MPs, says, we're proposing this because we think this, this is going to get better, and these responsibilities or sanctions we impose will be enforced by these and these people. I think then we'd adopt better laws, and I think that's the efficiency. Not the duration of the hearing. Sometimes it's a good thing if we don't pass the law after all. But the fact that the law works relatively well and that we don't have to redo it in three, six, nine, twelve months. Then it's fast, but it's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u35	Thank you to President Stanjur. First of all, I have a factual remark from Mrs Aulická. No, it's not, it's a mistake. So with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Dawn of Direct Democracy, Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now it will be a little bit more time to discuss the proposal made by colleagues from YES. I don't know how the other political clubs are doing here, but we at Dawn would like to work well. And what is fast and hasty, especially when these are very important standards for citizens of the Czech Republic, is simply not possible for us to discuss here in plenary, that is to say publicly, so that we do not hide from the public, from the cameras, and you know that I am not a person who needs to be visible, I am well-known enough, but to be honest here... [[Laughing in the hall]] Well, it is here that your colleagues from YES are laughing, but the frequency of the ANO Members' speeches, given how many Members you have, is one of the smallest in this Chamber of Deputies. That means either everything is so perfect that there's no need to express itself, but it's looking at the 80 amendment laws we've been stuck here all summer for, so I'm sure it's not, or maybe you just don't have anything to say about it. But we're just curious. We're just not afraid to ask public questions, to say our opinions, and we're not afraid to talk and bill our work directly in public. And in order to discuss these laws well, we simply need, when every law has dozens of pages and dozens of different, I would say, moments, so we need it to be discussed and, if possible, publicly and transparently. After all, we have committed ourselves to this in the various civil initiatives that were here before the elections. As far as Mr Jandák is concerned, he was with me a moment ago, and I think what I said was misunderstood. On the contrary, I commended him. It wasn't that I criticized him. On the contrary, I commended him for his good performance. As far as I'm concerned, and now for the suggestions. Application for a debate in writing only. That's a little bit of a problem, because at the moment, there may be some opinions that we fundamentally disagree with here, or we think it's different, so we have to have the opportunity to react in some faster order so that the debate continues continuously and doesn't just fit in. [[18.00 hours]] This means that the proposal is merely in writing to sign up for the debate. So we think it's a little limited because it needs to be really, I mean, Mrs Jermanová's proposal, so that's a little restrictive. And I just don't think that's practical. We need to respond in time, we need to respond properly, so that everything is discussed against our voters, who will, of course, welcome the opinion from the other side. It also says that Members may not express themselves outside the register. Only the rapporteur or an authorised member of the club can do this. Well, that's a great suggestion, too! I do not know how you have it in the YES movement, but we in the Dawn have a total of two experts, for example, who are expert on the subject and who are moving in it or who are more interested in it. This means that we simply need to at the moment that there are any proposals falling which, I would say, need to comment, or we need to define ourselves against them or join the debate, of course, into material. From our mouths, as I would say again, you'll never hear that we want to enjoy the mike here, such undignified things. I think it's the House that's serious, and we shouldn't be having a good time at the mic and stalling. This means that we simply need our other Member, who knows the problem, to be able, of course, to express himself outside of any sign-in and to say our position. Speaking time is ten minutes tops. This is another proposal put forward by Mrs Jermanová here for the YES movement. Well, I've already commented on that. If the government coalition stops presenting laws with 80 amendments and it will be perfect and discussed already from committees and there will be some consensus there, there is no need, of course we do not need to express ourselves almost at all. But if you're making proposals here that you don't even have a match on, and then you're arguing with yourself here, and you can't find a consensus by discussing a service law here for three months, then the result of that agreement was a coalition with the TOP 09, ODS, so the coalition of five parties. Those are the political deputy and political secretaries you agreed to here. Of course, ten minutes for the current work of the government coalition is not enough! Because how am I supposed to discuss dozens of proposals in twice ten minutes, respectively. Our MP, who's in charge of this? Then two speeches in the debate. Well, two speeches in the debate at the most ten minutes each, so I'd say that again. All I have to do is recommend that you submit good discussion proposals, and then, of course, we will welcome it when the debate in question is cut short. And again, I'm not just pointing out today, but we've witnessed it all these 14 days, that there's just been a vote every morning about changing the agenda of the meeting for at least an hour. Well, that's really great efficiency! And I just agree that the rapporteurs and other speakers here are ready, they're honestly studying late at night, they think it's going to be that day and that hour. And so that's really great efficiency, that then it's actually going to go over and everybody's waiting for each other, by the way, including your ministers and a lot of other people when those points are actually coming. And the finale is, for many points, it's not even the minister who's got it all figured out, but it's some other minister. We saw this on Friday and finally your minister gave up because he was unable to answer expert questions and moved on to another day. So you can see that we are all involved in this, and regardless of the coalition or opposition, I think that these are not appropriate proposals and that these proposals should - come with proposals, we are in favour of making it more effective, we are in favour of making it more flexible. But please try the flexibility and efficiency of the government first. Now you're at the helm, now you're a government coalition, you've got mechanisms, you've got thousands of civil servants, try it voluntarily, as you've been suggested for good will. Show me you can do it, show me it works. That means we're not gonna agree to a new program here every morning, a new one, a new one. Submit proposals where there will be a minimum of amendments to ensure that there is a proper reminder inter-ministerial procedure, all parties have been involved. Give an example, and when we see this, you know how to do it, you know how to know how to do better, of course come up with a proposal. Until then, it's just a populist election high five, it's just a populist kissing password for a less informed voter who says, "They want to make it more effective." But B won't say that we're stuck here practically every meeting for a few more hours just because the meeting doesn't run properly, and because you don't have it properly prepared, discussed, and we have to do all sorts of adjustments and stuff around here. My colleague Komárek here, through Vice-President of the House, was still talking about bad proposals. I don't know. Well, maybe with you, I like you and I love everything Daddy loves and we were friends, but you're already talking on a microphone about dates to enjoy and bad suggestions. Well, I don't know. We in Dawn don't have bad and bad suggestions and good suggestions. Those are terms I've never heard either. That means, please, the proposal here in the House for that money should always be the only one, and it's professional. And perfectly prepared. Not bad, not good, not pink, red, some other. Please submit only one proposal, namely professionally discussed proposals, a professionally prepared negotiating program and this is the best guide to show us all the entire government stakes that you know how to do it. And then please bring your suggestions and I will not consider them to be the populism of the roughest grain in the electoral campaign for voters, and then let's discuss it in a matter of fact. And I'll just welcome - you'd be surprised, I've got my arm broken now, virtually. It's broken. My neck hurts from the curtain. I would welcome the most of all if this had become more effective and we weren't stuck here for nothing because of obstructions and delays, because of unprofessionally prepared laws and unprofessionally prepared programs. Thank you for your attention and, of course, in the future, when you show here how you can work effectively, we are, of course, open and happy to talk about transparency and efficiency. Although I doubt the transparency of the negotiations enough after you, together, five parties, have approved the service law with the political deputy and political secretaries. That's not really transparent, and I'm afraid I don't believe a word you're saying. Thank you. Not words, but actions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u37	Thank you, Mr Tomie Okamur. Before we get to the debate, I have one factual remark by Mr Martin Komárek, but I will ask him to bear in mind before I apologise to Mr Stanislav Berkovec, who has been apologizing for his professional reasons for today's negotiations since 18:00. Please note that Mr Martin Komárek has made a point of fact. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u38	Thank you, Mr President. And by your means - Mr Okamura, I love you, too, and that is why I am delighted that you have criticised those populist proposals for less informed voters and that you are in favour of submitting genuinely discussed and professional bills.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The words will now be taken with proper application by Mr Václav Klučka. Mr Marek Benda, who will not use his position as rapporteur, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Stanjura, as he performed here last time, said the exact time when he applied and came up with a priority right. I confess that I don't even know when I signed up because the debate is what it is. I wanted to start by discussing a matter which is absolutely pragmatic, and I wanted to say that there are still certain deaf spots in the Rules of Procedure after the amendment has now been prepared, which need to be discussed and dealt with in the future, buy. Section 47 concerning the committees set up by Parliament. They're all the committees under that one paragraph. And they're control authorities. For example, the Supervisory Authority of the General Inspection of the Security Corps, which started operations 1. 1. 2012. Following, the supervisory authority was created, and we are now finding out what everything the supervisory authority stands for, and de facto none of the Rules of Procedure allows us to develop this work more carefully. So most likely those supervisory authorities should have their own paragraph in the future, whether the BIS supervisory authority, Military Intelligence, General Inspection of Security Corps and National Security Bureau. [[18.10 hours]] That was my topic for discussion. But since I know that at the moment, there's a desire to discuss things that have to do with the amendment... By the way, I could also give it, I did not give it, because I do not know in what position and with what understanding the amendment would meet here, and I did not want to complicate the whole debate around the Rules of Procedure. So I suppose someday in the future, the Chamber of Deputies will get into these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u41	I thank Mr Václav Klučka. Mr Marek Benda will take the floor and then Mr Martin Komárek is duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u42	I will not mention when I volunteered - I think it was last Wednesday - how long it took me to get to the floor, although the rapporteur, and I did not want to take advantage of this. I would still have one comment on my colleague Jermanová. At the time when the commission was sitting and we discussed the proposals, it was clearly stated what proposals had the chance to be adopted in this House. And not only the opposition, but also part of the coalition declared that proposals aimed at limiting speaking time for individual Members, apart from the proposal already included in the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee on the design of new items of the programme, would not have a chance to succeed. Then I say that whoever delayed this House meeting by about six hours was Mrs Jermanová. No one else. She put forward a proposal that she made just to be on the front pages of her own newspaper, and she wondered if it would trigger this endless debate, even though the information that such a proposal would not pass in the House was well known for a long time. So I'm asking who's going to inefficiencies of this house and the inefficiencies of action. If this is really the horrible opposition that says: Watch out for restrictions on the rights of the minority, because unfortunately, or thank God, democracy, please, is not the rule of the majority. Most people can rule with sticks. Modern liberal democracy is particularly about the system of minority protection, about being able to express themselves so that their voice can be heard. So if anyone's responsible for the six senseless hours of negotiations, it's my colleague Jermanová. Not the ones who set themselves against it and limited themselves. Second thing. In fact, as rapporteur, I wanted to present to this House what is contained in this constitutional law committee, so that we really know what we are going to vote on and how this can simplify the House's negotiations. But I'm almost wondering if it's worth it after this debate. Well, at least in the main parameters, to be clear and clear. What is the main and important parameter of this law, which is also based on those requirements which arose outside the Chamber of Deputies and which were aimed at transparency in the negotiations, is, on the one hand, mandatory minutes from committee meetings, the obligation to know who tabled a specific amendment, because often this was hidden, as it had come from somewhere and it was not known to be clear about each amendment. And if one single Member so requests, a name vote on a specific amendment. Of course, when we have 300 votes on the Constitutional Legal Committee and most of them are unanimous, it is pointless to write it down. If this is a controversial proposal for some reason, it is of interest that this figure be available in the minutes of the committee so that each of the public can read it. That's the first major change. The second substantial change concerns the second and third readings, respectively. the creation of a guarantee committee. This is not the first time, in this parliamentary term we have already experienced it very intensively here once, when 21 Members, or exactly how many, were confused and did not know what they were voting for - as was evident from the testimony of these noise microphones, so clearly the petitioner did not even know the proposal of the Minister of Finance, who also had no idea what was being voted on at the time. But this is an unfortunate situation that should not take place in the Chamber of Deputies. That is why we have put this mandatory discussion in the guarantee committee, so that each draft law, after this second reading, where 5, 10, 15, sometimes even 100 amendments, will have to go back to the committee and the committee would adopt an opinion on each of these proposals, which will then be interpreted by the rapporteur of the committee in the House. We are in a situation where it is not just the rapporteur and the individual guarantors of the House who determine how the rest of the poor person votes, who in many cases does not know why he is voting, only looks at his conductor, because there is nothing left for him, we will be in a situation where we will know the position of the particular body of the Chamber of Deputies. And we also believe with others who have prepared the proposal that it could significantly simplify and make the third reading more effective, because it will be quite obvious before what will pass, where the majority has been in the committee responsible, which, because it is relatively composed, is likely to copy the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, and then it will be unnecessary to have a further debate on some of these proposals. If for example. Of course they'll pass, so it's useless to convince the House. This is followed by another change which we consider important to make the House's actions more effective, and this is the opportunity of the petitioner to take back the bill until the beginning of the third reading. This concerns all the submitters, especially the government is the dominant promoter, but it will not happen to her, which has a majority in the Chamber of Deputies mostly secured. But it may also happen that she will suddenly see something going through within the committee that fundamentally disagrees with her ideas. But it is particularly effective for those other translators, whether they are individual Members, whether they are regions or the Senate as a whole. Because it hasn't been an extraordinary story in years, but it's happened that someone brought a proposal - the last time it happened, if I'm not mistaken, now in the Senate in the Waste Act, which was trying to solve something and suddenly, to its great surprise, found that something completely different came out of the House, solving a completely different problem. Then the plaintiff, when he sees that there is nothing left of his proposal, and vice versa, the House promotes a completely different idea to him at the beginning of the third reading, and there will already have information about what is likely to pass in the House, has the opportunity to say no, I take the proposal back, I don't want you to make something completely new out of him. These are the main changes that the bill brings, which we believe should also make the discussion in the House more effective. It will be necessary - and it has also been said here in these factual remarks - to adjust the House's timetable. I think President Hamáček and the Organizing Committee are counting on it. We are still wondering how the timetable should be adjusted so that we do not have such long periods between meetings so that the second and third readings can take place in some way effectively. The last remark I have more like a person who has been through this - and some of you are laughing at me for it - for a long and long time. There is an old British proverb that says: No man can be sure of his life, property, or freedom as long as Parliament sits. The longer I've been here, the wiser and wiser I think the proverb is. And what really is not important is Parliament's effectiveness in how many laws it can approve. Even the less he would approve of them, the better it might be for the citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u43	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Mr Martin Komárek has the floor now, Mr Karel Fiedler will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. My colleague Fiedler checked out, excellent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u44	Thank you. I also want to read the minor amendments that point to what my colleague Jermanová has not yet done. I know there's no consent, and it's okay, but I think everyone has a right -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u45	Mr President, we are in a general debate. If you want...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u46	Yes, I will sign up for them later in the debate in detail. I'm going to justify them now -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u47	It's okay. I just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u48	I'll sign up for them as usual. I think it's a habit that I find -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u49	It's okay. I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u50	- that the habit is perfectly normal. I want to justify them now. I want to say that, in my opinion, you may disagree with the problem of our House - the two things I have noted. [[18.20 hours]] Perhaps it was right that the opposition forced it to be adopted to negotiate a service law. I think such laws are really meant to be discussed together. But I think it is absurd, and the legislature certainly did not mean that two parliamentary clubs - let's say 20 Members - could completely and forever block the approval of laws at third reading by means of breaks. It's just customary law. The Rules of Procedure are written in such a way that no law in the history of the Czech Republic could ever be passed if the opposition insisted on that right. So, in Section 54.4, I propose that the last sentence be deleted: "The House cannot vote on the proposal to include a third reading for another day of discussion if two members of parliament object to it." Furthermore, I would like to restrict the so-called preferential right, which I consider to be something that is actually being used for personal attacks. This is being used for political proclamations, although I am sure that the legislators who have included this priority right in the Rules of Procedure have in fact meant that the members of the Government, the Presidents of the Parties and the Clubs should act as their ministries, or as their governments, or as their clubs and parties. I therefore propose to replace § 67 with the text: "Any time they so request in the debate, but not more than twice for ten minutes, a word shall be given in the debate: (a) to a member of the Government, (b) to the President and Vice-President of the House, (c) to the President of the Parliamentary Club, (d) to Members who are the chair of a political party or political movement to which Members belong who are members of the Members' Club appointed at the beginning of the parliamentary term.' I propose a new section 68: "The prezident shall be given the floor whenever he so requests, i.e. outside the debate, for an unlimited period of time." By the fall of the paragraph from the former § 68 until the end they will be one figure higher, i.e. 69 and beyond. The purpose of this proposal is for so-called preferential speakers not to speak outside the debate and more or less to set up meetings that are not actually meetings, to present their proposals, their political proclamations completely outside the agenda of the meeting. I think it's right for the meeting to follow its agenda and not the way someone wants to perform. In doing so, I would retain this priority right, but in the debate. Thank you for your attention. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u51	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u52	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate that what Stanjura and I have said to fellow Members from other Members' clubs once again when we have concluded the historic agreement on the Service Act today. We said that we understood the instrument we had chosen as absolutely exceptional and that we only used it when we felt that the democratic governance of the country was in real danger. There's no way we're gonna use it for ordinary laws, even if we disagree with them a thousand times. And again, I assure you, we're ready to act like one. We have said that we will only revive this instrument in one single case if someone tries, in particular, to limit the scope and rights of the opposition in the Rules of Procedure Act. I repeat, the words are true. Maybe Minister Dienstbier will tell me I'm a blackmailer again, but I think it's fair to say things in advance. If you try this, we'll block the legislative process. Please bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u53	I thank the President for his time. With a point of fact, Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u54	I have a request for a colleague, Komárek, to consider, in a detailed debate, whether he wants to make this proposal, which he has made here. It's a thing we've been talking about again. In order for this proposal to be fair and fair for everyone, you'd have to make a amendment to the Constitution first. Because the Constitution says in Article 38: "A member of the Government has the right to attend meetings of both chambers, their committees and committees. He will be given the floor whenever he asks." Then it was merely the Rules of Procedure that this right, which all members of the Government have, was also given to a fraction of the representatives of the opposition - the chairmen of the MPs and political parties. If you just take him away from the opposition and the Constitution remains for these members of the government, I say that this is not a fair procedure, and do not burden this amendment of the Rules of Procedure. Or bring it all over again with the amendment to the Constitution, then we can talk about it. As long as it doesn't, then I just see it as trying to silence most of the minority, and that's where I have to defend myself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u55	I thank my colleague Benda for his time. Otherwise, of course, such a proposal, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, would have to be unvoting. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Laudát, then Mr Schwarz. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would ask my colleague Komárek to withdraw these proposals. I've always respected you, but what you've been doing here lately... There's a ústava. There are some pillars of democracy. How would Mr Komárek and some others, not talk about Mrs Jermanová, not here, wouldn't it be fair, how do you imagine democracy would work? You really have a lot of preferences right now, people believe you, but of course that's not gonna be endless, 'cause everyone's gonna look at D1 when they go there, and it's gonna be enough without a word. You block this place to talk about it. In what way? Who will determine who will be the anointed head that lets in or doesn't? Even the representatives of the political parties who have been given a mandate will not be able to speak here. I would expect a number of people to attack and foul democracy, but that after less than a year in the House, a colleague of Komárek, who revolved around politics, I greatly appreciated his work, so what he's doing here now, it really remains my mind to stand. I really call on him to withdraw these proposals and not rank on Mrs Jermanová's side in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u57	I thank my colleague Laudát. So far, the proposal has only been made; it has not been tabled in a detailed debate. A colleague, Schwarz, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u58	Good evening, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I am glad that my colleague Laudát spoke through you from practice, that the voters have convinced themselves, have already looked at D1 in the past and it is as it is. And now a little serious. I beg you, he has spoken for us, I repeat, especially I have convinced myself that I must repeat this for the sake of President Kalousek, he is not here again, our representative. Mr Kubíček said here, and I will repeat this once again, thank you for the Constitutional Legal Committee, for the negotiations on the Constitutional Legal Committee, where we agreed across the spectrum what our proposal for the Constitutional Legal Committee is. And the fact that our colleague is making his proposals here, then every Member will stand up for himself. But it would be a shame to thwart the proposals passed through the constitutionally-legal committee, where consensus was, and these proposals will help. Please don't forget that. My colleague Kubíček's performance was already here. That was a performance for our club YES. The fact that somebody's making other suggestions, please let him have them. That's what his right is for. I'd like us not to sweep it under the rug, what went through the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u59	Thank you for keeping time. Another point in fact, Mr Mihola. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you also have the floor on a point of fact. I'm successful in finding out everyone's keeping time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u60	Shortly behind KDU-ČSL, colleagues. Democracy is a debate, said G Masaryk. If we want to remain democrats, let us not defend the debate and restrict it! I would like to thank all those who have participated in the adjustments to the Rules of Procedure of the House. I myself participated in the relevant subcommittee with my colleague Uhlík from KDU-ČSL and appreciated the correct and factual approaches of all the participating members of the subcommittee. If the amendment is approved, let's give it some time, then let's evaluate it and possibly deal with other possible changes and improvements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u61	I thank my colleague Mihol. One more point in fact by Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u62	Thank you for the floor. Now, technically, I want to ask you a question in the direction of the ANO delegation club. How are we supposed to trust you? There will be technically a third-reading vote, and we are counting on some consensus in the Constitutional Committee, but here is the text from quite significant persons, including the Vice-President of the House, their individual proposals, and where do we know that suddenly someone isn't going to make it? And then we will proceed to what we said, but the law here will be passed and approved legally. So I still miss the key characters of the ANO movement here in the House, i.e. the chairman of the club and he is the chair of the movement to say clearly that this will not happen. So I don't know. If you're gonna talk 48 votes here, and every day different, then what are we supposed to take for a reference? And that's what I'd like to hear the answer here before the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u63	I thank Mr Laudát. That's how we used up the actual notes. In the general debate, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the word "democracy" in connection with the Rules of Procedure has already been said countless times. Democracy, however, has a back and a back and a right and a responsibility. I'll stop by the law first. President Stanjura has added up the number of priority rights on the coalition's side, and he has opposed this to the number of priority rights on the opposition's side, or so-called. opposition. This term is often pronounced here. There is, of course, a great imbalance in favour of the coalition. But if we look not only at the quality of performances, but at the quantity of performances with priority rights, the ratio will be completely reversed. It was said that we only discussed the amendment of the agenda for the parliamentary meeting for an hour, but we must also recall that it also happened because Mr Laudát here spent twenty minutes discussing the point that he assumed would not be approved, and he presented it here and we, with zero rights, looked at it as a coup! That happens a lot around here. It's not the first time this happened. On the side of responsibility then we have dozens of laws, and here someone also said, which will be discussed at the end of the term, if at all. That's where we're headed. Over the summer, we have been dealing with obstructions and breaks of the parliamentary clubs through the service law, and we have achieved this, at least according to the words of all the speakers who have been here, that we have drawn up a compromise that is equal to nothing at all. Is that a responsibility? Mr Kalousek here often tells us that he will repeat something to us twice, three times, a hundred times if necessary. Yes, if there are no new ideas, demagogy begins. I'm not gonna say what Grandma said about empty barrels. I think I was here sometime at the beginning of the Chamber of Deputies, and Mr Laudát reminded me of it, talking about thinking. God or nature created us with two ends: we sit on one and think on the other. And it would finally be time for us to start using the right ending to think. If someone stands here and is unable to formulate a single clear thought in five or ten minutes, then it looks like the ladies will forgive as if they walk through an exhibitionist park, eventually they will open the cloak and all shout out: oh, that's small! [[Fun.]] If we really don't use a healthy ending to think, then the next word that starts with d, and that's defenestration. They have already done such a certain defensive thing here in the last parliamentary term because they have changed a number of Members from Members to Members of Parliament to Members of Parliament. I would very much like to intercede, and I know that the amendments relating to the limitation of contributions have very little hope of success perhaps in this round, but if we proceed in this way, we will get into the trap that the Chamber of Deputies has seen many times, and they will count it out for us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u65	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. Mr Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM Club, is now making a point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u66	Thank you for the floor. Have a good evening. I really do have a few notes. The first one is the most important one. Colleagues and colleagues, don't you think, at least some of us have been dealing with our internal circumstances for too long at the expense of what we should be dealing with here? I feel that we are dealing with ourselves here and that this emeritus emissary, as there has been a speech from a fellow Member, is the more we are torn away from the reality of everyday life and also from its solution, because that is what we are all obliged to do to our constituents. That's the first thing. Second thing. I'd like it not to be puffed up. When assessing abuse or the view of abuse of preferential rights, I don't even remember the last time I used it as club president, and if I use it in an absolutely necessary situation, I will use it only for the necessary time and at a time when I think there is no other solution. So I'm going to ask for a specific expression in this direction. And one more request that we honor not only the rules, but also the principles of decent conduct toward one another and that we do not have to agree with each other, but we should respect each other. I'm begging you to let us out of our personal position. Politics is not to be taken personally in this case, it should be a matter and not that I have an opinion, for example, on one or another colleague, that he is too much of a talker, and here I am telling him on the microphone. For example. I don't have to agree with Mr. Komárek -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u67	Mr President, the time has passed for a factual remark. [[Messenger. - Thank you.]] Thank you for keeping time. I don't have anyone else in the general debate, I don't see anybody, I'm ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. The appellants' representatives are not interested; the rapporteur is not interested. I open the debate in detail and ask Mr Václav Votava to take the floor in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u68	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which has been inserted into the system as document 1144. It concerns the discussion and approval of the budget chapter of the Chamber of Deputies, in connection with the amendment of the Act on budgetary rules. I want to say that this amendment is therefore tabled for both the original press 26/0 and the comprehensive amendment to the press 26/5. The content can be incorporated into both proposals and, where appropriate, the legislative department will then carry out the necessary renumbering of the amendment points and the relevant paragraphs after voting on the version. This is also the case with the legislation of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u69	I thank Mr Votav. With a factual remark, Mr Kováčik. He saved a fellow Komárek, whom I don't see here, who would fall for the order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u70	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to finish the idea that she shouldn't stay unfinished, because then she can explain the conclusion differently. Colleagues and colleagues, I may not agree with Mr Komárek, but I will never challenge him because we have differences of opinion. As colleagues, I just respect him as much as any of you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u71	Thank you. Now, Mr Komárek is in order, but he's not here, so he's falling in order. I'll leave it at the end. Mrs Jermanová is not present here, so she is also failing the order. Now, Mr Josef Uhlík, for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I sign up for the amendment, which is loaded into the system under number 1397. It's about the third reading. I hope we approve the period between second and third reading 14 days, respectively. 7 days, so I'm giving consideration to the House, if we didn't expand the third reading, where we have a fixed Wednesday and Friday morning, by the afternoon of Wednesday. It's Section 95a. I, on the subcommittee, gave a broader amendment to extend it to more days, which did not meet with consent. It was suggested to me that if it were just a part of one day, it might pass. So I'm giving it some consideration. Thank you for your attention and thank you for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u73	I thank Mr Uhlík. Now, in a detailed debate by Mrs Radka Maxová, a colleague, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u74	Thank you. My colleague Jermanová asked me to sign up on her behalf for the amendments under number 641, 1145 and 1253.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u75	Thank you. Now Mr Ludvík Hovorka and then Mr Komárek in a new order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the liberty of tabled one amendment, rather brief. I'll read it here. A new amendment point is inserted: V § 48 para. 9 reads: "If the facts found by the Commission of inquiry indicate that an offence has been committed, the Commission of inquiry shall notify the law enforcement authorities of that fact. " A short justification, and only because at the moment there was only a possibility that he could announce. I consider it important that if Members know that an offence has actually been committed, this should be automatically notified to the law enforcement authorities. I think it can improve the work and, above all, the results of the committees of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u77	I thank Mr Hovorka. Now in a new order, Mr Martin Komárek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u78	Thank you. I appreciate my colleague Marek Benda very much, and I understand that his objection to the Constitution is relevant. So I'm not going to sign up for those amendments and load them up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u79	Thank you. Now there is a renewed order of Mrs Jermanová, who is not here, so Mrs Maxová put forward the proposal for her in a detailed debate. This has exhausted all applications in a detailed debate. Mr Schwarz, for a detailed debate, I have not yet finished it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u80	My luck, Mr President. Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I have one more suggestion that we reduce to 48 hours of discussion between second and third readings. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u81	Okay. It is a procedural proposal to shorten the deadline between second and third reading to 48 hours. We will vote on it without debate. But, of course, I must give the rapporteur the floor if he signs in. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u82	I'm so sorry, but I'd like us all to follow the rules of this House. First of all, all those who have been lecturing proposals that they have just put into the system, so they should have given them to the President and to me, but well, I will find them. But to cut to 48 hours is only on the proposal of the appellants, not any Member in the House. So I'm afraid this proposal, Mr. Schwarz, is unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u83	prosit, Mr. Faltýnek as chairman of the club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am one of the plaintiffs, so I propose, but I feel that my colleague Schwarz, too, has been reduced to 48 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u85	Okay. In this respect, I will see if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case; I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Mr. Vice-Presidents, Mr. Mr. Marek Benda didn't either. We have only one motion to vote, and that is a reduction in the deadline for discussion to 48 hours. I've begun to make sure that those who left could return. Initiating serial number 107. I'm asking, who's in favor of shortening the deadline to 48 hours? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 107, from 163 present for 64, against 29. The motion was not accepted. So the deadline for a third reading will be consistent with the law. We still have to check the votes so that we can keep our deadline immediately. This is my colleague, Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u86	It happened to me. As I have seen, I voted in favour of the proposal, and I am abstaining from the results of the vote, so I am questioning this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u87	Calm down, please. Mr. Chairman of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák opposed the electronic record of the result of the vote. We will vote on his objection. I'm going to sign you all out now and ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will decide on the opposition of President Sklenák in voting order number 108, which I have begun because the number of people present has settled. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 108. Of the 143 present for 118, against 1, the proposal was accepted. We will therefore repeat the vote on the shortening of the deadline for discussion between the second and third readings of the press 26. We will decide by voting order number 109, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of shortening the time limit for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 109. Of the 144 present for 77, against 29, the proposal was accepted. The deadline for discussion of the House's press 26 has been reduced to 48 hours. Before I begin another point, President Stanjura is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u88	So for Mr Komárek: Now you have seen what the Rules of Procedure are for the test. You've been performing here several times today, telling me how nice it's gonna be, how effective it's gonna be. In this bill, you are also a petitioner. But the political agreement is that there will be a time interval between second and third reading of 14 days. That's where you keep telling us how to be reasonable and helpful, and the second you vote to 48 hours. So the next time you talk about it on rehearsal, you do it yourself first, and then master us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-004-027.u89	I thank Prime Minister Stanjur for his speech. We will continue with the approved agenda until 19 o'clock, because at 19 o'clock we have firmly included points of proposals returned to the Senate. The next item is point number
