ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u1	6. Members of Roman Sklenák, jeroný's proposal Tejce and others to issue a law amending Act No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other employees in administrative offices (service law) /German press 71/ - second reading I would like to ask Mr Roman Sklenák to present the application for the appellant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, allow me, therefore, to briefly once again present to you the parliamentary proposal for an amendment to the Service Act and, at the same time, a comprehensive amendment adopted by the Constitutional Legal Committee. But before that, I would also like to very briefly recapitulate the entire genesis of the service law. The state service has been regulated since 2002. Part of the provisions of Law No. 211/2002 Coll. concerning the appointment of the Director-General and his representative, the field of service or competence of the Directorate-General and the incorporation of the State Service to the Office of the Government have already taken effect by the publication of 28 May 2002. [[10.40 hours]] Later, the effectiveness of the Service Act was postponed five times, last as of 1 January 2015. For the first time, this was due to the expected cost of introducing a public service, including so-called redundancies, when the government postponed the effectiveness of the Service Act for extraordinary State costs associated with the removal of flood damage. Subsequently, the effectiveness was repeatedly postponed by right-wing governments, referring to the preparation of a new concept of state service, which should essentially consist in the application of the Labour Code, regardless of the Constitution envisaged by the special law. These legislative acts have been criticised by both the European Commission and non-governmental organisations. The lack of public regulation of the relationship between the State and civil servants, as is traditionally the case in service, has been criticised, and the lack of an independent body ensuring the independence of the State service, as is usual in European civil services. That is why, in July 2013, Social Democrat Members submitted an initiative by an amendment to the Service Act, which was to be a counterpart to the government's proposal for a law on state officials. Compared to these two forms of regulation in expert discussions, the route of the amendment to the Service Act clearly stood. The parliamentary initiative was then consulted with many subjects, including the reconstruction of the state, trade unions or the academic sphere. First of all, the amendment to the Staff Law aimed at eliminating the constitutional deficit, which is the failure to comply with Article 79 (1) of the Treaty. 2 The Constitution, which reads: The legal situation of civil servants in ministries and other administrative offices is governed by the law. And, of course, we wanted to improve the state administration. We tabled the same proposal again shortly after the elections to the Chamber of Deputies in December last year to make it clear that the effectiveness of the Service Act is essential to us. It is important to recall that the House press 71, which we are discussing, is not a new law. This is a law partially effective, as I mentioned, by the way, more than ten years taught at law schools within both master and bachelor programmes. The lack of service law is particularly negative at the central level of the state administration. Under the conditions of the mixed model of public administration in the Czech Republic, it is a paradox that, while, at municipal and regional level, since 1 January 2003, the Act on Officials of Territorial Self-governments has been effective, political and administrative positions are not separated at the level of headquarters in any way. In addition to what has already been said here yesterday, the European Commission also asks the Czech Republic for the effectiveness of the Civil Service Act and it is called ex ante compliance for the drawing of European Structural and Investment Funds. The submitted amendment to the Service Act therefore leaves in force the principles of the Service Act of 2002. During its discussion, a comprehensive amendment was tabled by the Coalition Members and approved by the Constitutional Committee. He was also discussed in the Chamber of Deputies in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, in addition at seminars, he was consulted with social partners and NGOs. It was published on 29 May this year. The comprehensive amendment takes into account changes in legal institutes in the areas of criminal, administrative, labour and civil law and the will of coalition parties in the way of establishing the Director-General, guiding the border between political positions and civil servants. Even in the case of a comprehensive amendment, the following principles continue to apply: institutional and personal application of the Service Act, regulatory remedies, review of legality within the administrative judiciary, depolitisation and independence of the State Service, definition of professional discipline, evaluation of disciplinary proceedings and the career system, determination of civil servants' obligations, for example, as part of the State Service, also training of lower-instance employees. A new method of appointment and dismissal of the Director-General of the State Service, both during a transitional and due period, namely the appointment and dismissal of the Government on the basis of the results of the selection commission, the refinement of the powers of the Directorate-General, the establishment of a term of office of the State Secretary for seven years and the abolition of certain financial benefits for civil servants, in particular the contribution to retirement, i.e. the so-called pension. In addition to the proposed amendment to the Civil Service Act, the comprehensive amendment explicitly regulates the protection of so-called public administration crime notifiers, as well as the conditions for the reconciliation of family life and public service, as well as the deepening and increase of the education of civil servants. From an institutional point of view, the amendment to the Staff Act concerns all ministries, all central administrations under the so-called competence law, so-called subordinate administrations, such as the system of financial authorities or labour offices, as well as the so-called intermediate bodies involved in the administration of European Structural and Investment Funds. These bodies also include two contribution organisations, CzechInvest and the Centre for Regional Development. The so-called regulators fall under the Civil Service Act, when the exception applies to the representatives of regulators who are excluded from the scope of the Civil Service Act. The comprehensive amendment regulates a special regime when it comes to the systemization of the Czech Telecommunications Authority, the Energy Regulatory Authority, the Office for the Protection of Competition or the Office for the Protection of Personal Data. Without the approval of the leader, the government cannot reduce the number of posts and the amount of salary appropriations compared to the systemisation for the previous calendar year. This is due to the specific status of the said authorities, for which a higher degree of independence must be guaranteed in view of their scope. This is the responsibility of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies through the approval of the state budget. The comprehensive amendment also specifies and complements the fields of public procurement or audit services. The Directorate-General is an independent organisational unit of the Office of the Government. This is not a new office because the Government Office has been carrying out the agenda under the competence law since 2002. Integration with the Office of the Government is one of the models applied in the countries of the European Union. The Directorate-General shall submit a proposal for a civil service system, issue state service regulations, coordinate education, carry out checks, handle appeals by civil servants against any illegal procedure and file appeals for the State in disputes with civil servants before administrative courts. The explicit authorisation of ministers for the assignment of civil service tasks is crucial. The Minister is tasked with the head of the sections as the highest civil servant in the Ministry hierarchy. Newly, these civil servants are referred to as sub-heads for the management of the sections. The Political Cabinet of the Minister shall consist, inter alia, of Deputy Ministers who are not civil servants. The State Secretaries shall be responsible for staff management, the issue of staff regulations, the preparation of proposals for systemisation or organisational changes and the management of funds for civil servants' salaries. The Secretary of State must consult with the relevant member of the Government on the fundamental decision in matters relating to the change of service and its termination. Unlike the legislation in force, the State Secretary should not newly be a professional guarantor in the Ministry and the Office of the Government for the overall performance of the state administration, but should only perform the tasks of the Service Authority. All performances shall be selected on the basis of tenders and the results of the selection procedures shall be binding. The Secretary of State shall be appointed and removed by the Director-General, Deputy Head of Management of the Department of State Secretary of the Ministry. [[10.50 hours]] The positions of ordinary civil servants are also occupied on the basis of tender procedures, the results of which are binding. In addition to the victory in the selection procedure, a civil servant must pass an administrative examination before the establishment of the service for an indefinite period of time. In particular, through an administrative examination consisting of a part general and a part specific, it shall be verified whether the civil servant has the necessary knowledge of the organisation and activities of the public administration, the rights and obligations and the rules of ethics of the civil servant, or whether he has the necessary knowledge, skills and is sufficiently professionally prepared. From the point of view of transparency within the public administration, the comprehensive amendment allows, in addition to taking into account the practice in administrative offices, to take into account the practice in municipal authorities of municipalities with extended competence and regional authorities, as well as the recognition of the examination of special competence for the administrative examination. The comprehensive amendment regulates in more detail what is meant by deepening education, with the fact that entry education, continuing education, education and language education fall within this institute. Colleagues and colleagues, therefore, so much presentation of the proposal for an amendment to the Service Act and a comprehensive amendment law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u3	Thank you. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 71/2 to 8, with the House press 71/6 being a record of the meetings of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I now ask that the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mr Jan Chvojka, take the floor. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Constitutional Committee dealt with this press very closely, and there were more resolutions. However, this is relevant, as you yourself said, to the press number 71/8, which sets out resolution 52 of the Constitutional Legal Committee of the 13th meeting held on 27 June 2014. In this resolution, the Constitutional Committee recommended that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal in the wording that everyone has in the resolution of the Constitutional Committee. These are amendments in the number of 82 pages. Secondly, he authorised the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, empowered me, the rapporteur of the Committee, to report here at the House meeting, and also authorised me, as rapporteur of the Committee, to make appropriate legislative technical changes in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Věra Kovářová, take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to introduce you to the minutes of our committee's meeting, as follows: the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 11th meeting after the appearance of the representatives of the Ing authors. Jiří Petr, after Mrs Ing's intelligence report. Věra Kovářová and, after the debate, did not accept the present House press 71 as amended by the comprehensive amendment to the resolution and authorised me to introduce you to the committee's record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u7	Thank you. I am now opening up a general debate in which I record seven applications, two of which are with priority rights. I am just asking - do I have a factual comment from Mr Stanjura - do you wish to make a point of fact? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u8	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to this table. [[He turns towards the table for the plaintiffs and rapporteurs.]] No one's sitting there. Neither the processor or the submitter nor the rapporteur. Well, I'd like you to invite them to take their positions. We want to ask many questions, and asking empty benches makes no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u9	Thank you. I'm gonna fix everything. I will ask the plaintiff to take the position, and I will ask the rapporteur to take the position. Thank you. [[Mr. Chvojka sits at the table.]] Mr Kalousek is the first with priority rights to sign up here with a written application. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, no longer during the hearing - don't yell in my ear, František. Already during the discussion of the agenda with which we disagreed, the discussion focused mainly on this law. The Prime Minister Sobotka and Minister Dienstbier have repeatedly appeared here and warned against delays. They called such an approach cynical and constantly referred to the opinions of the European Commission that this law wishes. And he wishes it by 1 January 2015 at the latest. And if this is not done on 1 January 2015, our use of European Union resources is at risk. And essentially both members of the government took the European Union's resources and the position of the European Commission as hostages. I have, and I still have significant doubts about the truthfulness of these statements. It is not without interest that at the end of June, the European Commission sent the government of the Czech Republic an unofficial - because the law is not approved - but an unofficial comment on this bill. It struck me as strange that these unofficial remarks, which Minister Dienstbier has at his disposal, and I suppose Prime Minister Sobotka too, did not become the subject of parliamentary debate. If the petitioners are constantly referring to the European Commission, the relevant remarks of the European Commission should become a natural part of the parliamentary debate - at least I think so. Both members of the government probably don't think so. I am quite interested in whether or not the proponents of this proposal were familiar with the comments. But if you're on your side, you'll have to deal with each other. In any case, I believe that these remarks are to be part of the public debate and parliamentary debate, and therefore the Czech text and the English original will be published in the following minutes on the TOP 09 website. I can read it now. Don't worry, it's only three pages of A4. Then, in the English original and in the Czech translation, I will allow myself to pass these remarks on to my fellow Members of Parliament's clubs in this House. It is not so strange that the gentlemen did not make them part of the public debate, because many of the formulas that you will subsequently hear are in direct conflict with what the Sobotka and Dienstbier members of the government have been telling us. So let me read these notes. I'm stressing - and this text highlights in its introduction - that the following remarks by the European Commission on the draft Civil Service Act are informal and are not exhaustive. In order to carry out a full assessment of the law, the content of the regulations, decrees and methodologies relating to the public service would also need to be available. The European Commission, logically, cannot evaluate these additional standards with full responsibility - exactly the same, ladies and gentlemen, as we cannot. [[11.00 hours]] Article 1. Scope 1.1 Article 1 defines the public authorities and employees covered by the law, i.e. all employees of the administrative component of the State under other legislation and other employees. Article 2 defines staff excluded from the scope of this Act. The principle should be such that all public service bodies, irrespective of their legal status, should fall within the scope of the law and all possible exceptions should be justified. In order to increase transparency, the list of bodies and staff excluded from the scope of the law should be published. 1.2 However we understand that many administrative bodies are not formally administrative components of the State, in any case they are budgetary or contribution organisations, i.e. legal persons of the State authority. These authorities should fall within the scope of the law. For example, the Centre for Regional Development does not seem to apply to the current bills. 1.3 The independence of the institutions should not be a priori justification for not applying the law. In this sense, the current situation, where only the Labour Code applies to part of their employees, does not seem sufficient and satisfactory. 1.4 In the draft law, there is a provision - Article 11 - that both categories of employees will follow the same service regulations issued by the Directorate-General of State Services - have not yet been established - which should ensure the basic consistency between these two categories, only with regard to the organisational aspect. As far as the content of the service regulations cannot be evaluated at this point, since they are only to be adopted, it is recommended that the second category should cover not only organisational aspects but also other important aspects referred to in Article 1, i.e. the service relationship, remuneration, evaluation, etc. 1.5 Moreover, even in government bodies, the second category of employees is not clearly defined. It should be noted that, although they are not de jure civil servants, they de facto perform, i.e., the function of state or regional administration. 1.6 The Law excludes not only political representatives but also those who work for them, i.e. persons working for political representatives. This means exempting a significant proportion of public service officials. No more detailed information is provided on the rules applicable to these officials, i.e. the recommended structure, the minimum/maximum number of Deputys or their collaborators, so that the scope of the exemptions cannot be assessed. In any event, the number of such officials should be limited to what is strictly necessary. 1.7 Regional Councils are excluded with reference to hardened legislative restrictions, while solutions to the incompatibility between the Regional Officials Act and the Civil Service Act are not presented. In other words, no one understands the incompatibility there in my opinion. 1.8 Article 79 lays down the obligations of officials with regard to ethics and personal integrity. It would also be appropriate to include an explicit reference to the basic principles and values of the civil service, such as integrity, impartiality, objectivity, respect for the rule of law, efficiency; that is to say, a situation where a civil servant receives an order which he considers to be incorrect or likely leading to serious difficulties. 1.9 It is unclear why only some areas - such as research, civil protection - are specifically mentioned in Article 5, while many others are not - employment, education, the environment. In addition, more detailed specifications of these areas should be defined by a sub-law without any indication of the date of entry into force. 1.10 The legal regulation of the protection of informants appears insufficient. Measures to prevent conflicts of interest should also be developed and divorced in more detail. Now Article 2 concerns the implementation period, i.e. the date of effectiveness, as our government leaders here claimed, over 1. 1. 2015 doesn't take the train. 2.1 The planned entry into force on 1 January 2015 is generally welcome. However, the Commission has always stressed that speed should never be at the expense of the quality of the regulation. Moreover, given more than a two-year transitional period, it is clear that some parts of the regulation will only enter into force after the law itself. If you don't mind, 1. 1. 2015 would be nice if it was okay, whole, all at once and quality. If it's not good quality, okay and even per partes, then it's better to have it effective a little later and properly than to 1. 1. 2015 and wrong - says the Commission. And we don't read anything in the notes that when it comes to 1. 1. 2015 will not be effective, that the Structural Funds and their drawing may be at risk. 2.2 Key parts of the law, such as remuneration, systematicisation, education, state service testing, need to be developed through other specific implementing regulations, such as service regulations, decrees or methodologies. A detailed timetable should be drawn up and communicated to those planned implementing rules, which are now only available at work level. Of course, neither does the Chamber of Deputies. Article 3. Rewarding 3.1. We note that the regulation plans to use the existing remuneration system in which different types of national supplementary payments and bonuses, representing a flexible part of income, form a relatively large proportion of the entire salary, leaving the contractual wage system. However, since a completely new and transparent system will be prepared during the two-year transitional period, this area cannot be fully assessed at the current stage. Moreover, it appears that the change in the remuneration system will be implemented not by law, but by decree. Despite the fact that this amendment should be prepared by the end of 2014, we recommend setting the principle of transparency much clearer in the law. 3.2 The remuneration system should be designed to preserve the attractiveness of the public administration for young people. This would require some flexibility with regard to the level of recruitment fees for new recruits. Entering the service is Article 4. And please also pay attention here. 4.1 Although the need for stability and continuity of the public service is generally recognised, some provisions of the law seem to restrict access to the public service from the outside. Specific cases are limited below. 4.2 It is unclear why the Director-General of the Civil Service and his representative may be chosen only from among existing officials. Similarly, it is the case with external experts in higher management positions. New officials may only be admitted to the heads of departments. No one understands. Not even in the European Commission. I mean, I'm afraid I understand, but the motive really isn't Godly. 4.3 Some additional qualifications requirements should also be laid down for a leading position outside the requirement regarding the number of years spent in the civil service. The selection is expected to be carried out by a committee nominated and appointed only by the government. However, the advisory role of other independent bodies may be assumed as necessary. Clear rules should be defined for selection committees, although they are not, even if they should be. 4.4 The choice of all managers is the competence of the Director-General. He is appointed politically by the government, appoints all state secretaries and subsequently appoints the rest of the government's management. - In other words, the person who reads this logically, and the processors of these remarks in the European Commission have logically read it, comes to a logical conclusion: So the question of political influence in public administration is not addressed through the law, but by a cascading effect. Not transparently, not by law, but we're going to concrete it from the top, and we're going to let the cascading effect go to those department heads. [[11.10 hours]] 4.5 The requirements for the release of managers should be clearly defined and include cases of serious misconduct. 4.6. The recruitment mechanism for officials shall be carried out in two stages - first the recruitment of a civil servant shall take place and then, during the specified period, an official examination shall be held. It is unclear why these two procedures cannot be merged into one recruitment procedure, consisting of a written and oral examination, in order to properly assess the applicant's analytical and logical capabilities. The fact that a written test is not mandatory could, in certain circumstances, constitute an infringement of the principle of equal treatment. Since detailed information is not known for either part of the administrative examination, the evaluation cannot be completed and concluded. 4.7 The vacancies are only to be notified on the official record of the Office concerned without specifying any time limit for the submission of applications. In order to comply with the principle of transparency, the law should provide that a publicly available resource on vacancies and specifying the deadline for submission of applications should be set together with specific selection criteria. 4.8 As far as existing employees are concerned, they would be transferred to the state service regime if they so request and meet the basic criteria, they would not have to undergo any further examination of their qualifications. At least an assessment of their performance should be taken into account in this process. 4.9 Certain minimum conditions should be laid down for staff recruited for a fixed-term contract. 5. Systemization 5.1. As with remuneration and other areas, the evaluation cannot be carried out, given that detailed arrangements will only be laid down in subsequent implementing regulations. We expect that the relevant implementing regulation should set out the model structure of the administrative body, whether the Ministry or the Agency, including the maximum number of political representatives and their co-workers who are excluded from the scope of the law, which should be based on a sound audit, or where appropriate. public administration analysis. So many remarks that will come relevant to each of us who are dealing with this issue, come logical - and above all formulate them, although so far unofficially, the European Commission, which we are still referring to in connection with this law, and especially the date of effectiveness. To sum this up, it says here: We really don't think it's perfect. And we can't judge it anymore because there's a lot of things missing. And it would be nice if it were effective at 1. 1. 2015, but for God's sakes, it better be later if it's proper. Nobody's threatening you with a bad draw on the Structural Funds. Again, those members of the government who took the Structural Funds hostage here to push through the House as quickly as possible were simply not telling the truth. A friend who, as I went to Brussels for seven years, I have some friends there. A friend who has provided me with these remarks - which Minister Dienstbier has had for two weeks, I suppose he will confirm their authenticity - a friend who has provided me with these remarks, I would stress, non-Czech nationality, he has written me his own personal comment and I think there is nothing against it when I read this personal remark to the Chamber of Deputies. For the Commission, the form was never decisive, but the content. So it's not that you have to have the Civil Service Act, and so much less that you have to have it until a certain date. What interests the Commission is a functioning government that properly manages the funds drawn from the budget of the European Union. The Commission does not care how you work towards this functioning administration. The key is the result. If there are irregularities and doubts in the state administration, and in particular in its parts coming into contact, or even with responsibility for projects financed from the European Union, you will have problems. By approving the pasquila, you will not climb in any way with the European Commission, on the contrary, you will be harmed. It's not enough to mechanically adopt the law, and it's easily leaky, untethered and sloppy. The Commission will not let you get drunk with a roll, and it will continue to require you to act as a trustworthy and serious partner and a proper manager. Ladies and gentlemen, so many remarks from the European Commission, their significant discrepancy with persuasion of government officials and my great request that we go in this direction. So that we go in the direction that we're not going to be tangled with date 1. 1. 2015, however, we will be captivated to pass a quality service law and to approve it so that much of this House, i.e. the opposition, can vote for it. We're ready for this. This is also a question of stability. If, and of course, it is possible, although I think not in this case, because we simply will not allow you to do so, but if you merely push through the coalition, with which we will not agree in a fundamental way, you can hardly expect from the opposition anything other than that until the end of the parliamentary term we will say: once we have the strength to do so, we will change the law, which is, of course, instability. We believe that stability is extremely important for a functioning professional government when the rules do not change after every election. Again, we are ready to do this, we are prepared to formulate relatively tolerable and in no way infinite demands, but we have some requirements that, I'm sorry, do not run the train because we care about the professionalism, the efficiency of the state administration, not the pasquila. In addition to believing that this proposal does not ensure the effective and professional performance of the state administration, we fear that, as it is presented, this is due to a threat to the democratic nature of the state. What is not clear to the European Commission, what we are criticizing from the very beginning, that here, in a cascading manner, the general director of state services will fix state secretaries, the next CEO will be unable to be chosen from any other than state secretaries, and in this cascading way it will go down, so given the way the government coalition behaves in some ministries, we simply cannot think of anything other than the way to deploy militias to key posts, lovers who take up the task of assuming government administration, taking up the task of providing subsidies, tax concessions and other benefits to selected oligarchs and creating oligarchic-state business in connection with the state administration. I think that's a risk we can't take. I repeat, we offer serious negotiations, we offer serious negotiations on the form of a public service. Assuming the government coalition does not wish for serious negotiations and does not wish for an agreement, let us warn you that you do not have a chance to approve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have here a factual comment by Mr Zlatuška. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak to Vice-President Kalousek about what he said here - I do not address him. [[President: Through me.]] I would like to say after you that it is not true that these things are not needed, and that by the time he was in the government, the service law was repeatedly discussed because its effectiveness was being postponed. In September 2008 in the Senate, I suggested to the then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Petr Nečas that the law be abolished when they wanted to make a new one, and he explained to me why the effectiveness was constantly being postponed. He told me at the time: I confess, I will be very open, and I hope that it will not be added to my burden. The first reason is, and I will say this quite frankly, that we are not sure that we would not have brought an action by the European Commission after the repeal of this law as a whole, even though it is not effective, because we do not have the relevant law. I know it seems absurd, but this is how the European Union works. She doesn't mind that this law isn't effective, she'd mind if it wasn't. - This was the Minister's statement from when Mr Kalousek was in government. If you could just unload this for him. He can read it in the old tapes. I'm sure it'll bring him to a different point of view than what he's been saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jandák and then Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u14	Prime Minister, Mr President, I am not bowing to use the arguments that the past government has made wrong here, okay. I think we all need to realise that today we are facing a law, such a serious law that will affect this country's life for decades. And what my previous speaker here, I mean, said to my colleague Kalousek, is, in my opinion - I don't know about you - but new and very serious facts that we should at least think about or examine and see if they are and how they are true. Because here we talk about two philosophies. And I feel like we're here to do that and we have a responsibility here to think about it and decide because the laws are fast and good - there are no other! So please, nicely, I call on this House, all of us, to actually take the words that have been spoken here as serious words and not hurry and think about it and then decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u16	Procedural. And please, it's really not obstruction, we really need it. I'd like an hour break for the club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u17	Okay. In that case, I'm declaring an hour break. Meet me here at 12.24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss Act No. 218/2000 Sb., respectively. his changes. I remind you that we are in a debate. I have two factual points here - first, Mr Laudát, and then the factual point by Minister Věra Jourová, who, among other things, is still registered with priority right for the debate. He's really interrupting, so okay, so one de facto comment from my colleague Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to do a previous performance by my colleague Kalousek. I really urge you, the government coalition, to reconsider the position of the European Union, because you can achieve the exact opposite. The European Union will certainly, I dare say, not tolerate a lousy law and will begin to define itself against our legislation. I don't think you're gonna fuck with the fact that here in the Treasury Secretary's person, you're gonna want to cement the megafocus of interest. And I think you can achieve the opposite. This means that you will pass the law and it will be a greater obstacle than to prepare a quality law, to correct what you have come up with, because if anything can stop drawing subsidies, then it will be a problem of conflict of interest in the officially adopted law. So I'd really like you to think about the arguments. We did not say them, says the European Union, the same people who will approve the drawing of subsidies. And I do not think that you will be fooling the European Union. I want Sobotkův's government to finally stop taking the European Union into its mouth, as pro-European it is, and instead of de iure, it is starting to meet the ideals and its demands and transparency de facto. I am sorry that Minister Dienstbier has not given the opinion here that the government has not dealt with it, or maybe he has dealt with it, but according to how second reading is imposed and how he wants to behave in this law without any self-esteem, so they really are empty gestures, just as there is an empty gesture to accept a fiscal constitution and at the same time not to abide by it. Please, if you think you may be fooling over some Czech media owned by the Minister of Finance, a part of the Czech public, but you will certainly not fool qualified people in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u20	Mr. Colleague, you're out of time, thank you. Now, therefore, with priority rights first, President Okamura, then Minister Jourová, then Minister Dienstbier with priority rights before duly registered. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the service law, as designed, is a hot needle, but since the government Members and legislation have been working on this law since last year, the proposed wording seems to me to be a clear intention. But even time distress should not be used to make a code that should at least have solid principles only the essence of an unsolved formal patch, which is supposed to quickly resolve debt to the European Union. In this sense, I would also like to appeal to the Government to make it clear to us here and to comment on what Vice-President Kalousek has said here, because we, too, have been hearing here in Dawn for several months that there is a risk of drawing funds from the European Union, and now we are hearing an entirely different statement here, and that the reason that has been presented to us here may be completely different. If it is actually confirmed that the reason that was presented to us here, that it is supposed to rush, as if to sew the hot needle of that service law, it is not that we lose money from the European Union, that it is not black on white, that it was just some impression of someone else, or, in a better case, perhaps even an invention, so it would really be at parliamentary level and at the level of the government, such impressions or knitting impressions with concepts, it should certainly not be at this level. In this case, the government should actually draw fundamental consequences. That would mean someone's been dragging us around for months and everyone. [[12.30 hours]] In the European Union - I am simply adding - there is no uniform definition of a public service to which all Member States would declare themselves united. This fact clearly wants to exploit the government coalition in its proposal. At the same time, what must be our main objective is to guarantee in a maximum way the independent, apolitical functioning of the state administration, to ensure the stability and quality of its employees. We have more reservations. We have more amendments prepared. Our Members will then comment on this. The key position, or the key moment that I would mention, is the position of the general director of the civil service. By the way, the government sort of cut the appointment as president, originally it was there, and with modesty, Mr Sobotka essentially assumed that authority. I dare call this move impertinence. After all, the government's appointment on the Prime Minister's proposal is the worst possible option, because it will cement the government's dependence on the ruling coalition and politicize it even more. I think it's obvious at first sight. Therefore, only the option is acceptable for us in Úsvit, when the President-General of the State Service is appointed by the President on a proposal from the Government, as well as for example the President of the Czech Statistical Office, the Office for the Protection of Competition or the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data. The aim is to make the appointment as independent as possible of the current government. To actually take a step towards depoliticizing the state administration. We may have different opinions on this proposal, but when we look for different mechanisms and look for who has been elected under our political system, in this case directly elected, and is mainly separated from executive power, that is, from government, we basically haven't much of those options left here. Therefore, I would not like to identify this amendment in some way on who is now president or not. That's not the essence of principle. It is important that there is no concretement of their political nominees to the ministries, but that there are real experts. So, in this respect, the Vice-President of our club, Marek Černoch, has tabled an amendment that the law should, at least at this crucial point, bring into its original functional form. As I said before, we have more amendments. The others are served through our Member Jana Hnyková and she will introduce you to them. These are proposals that are discussed by national unions, so they are also supported by trade unions in terms of employees' rights. Dear colleagues, in conclusion, I would like to ask you to support us - When the words came out here that it was a fundamental standard for decades ahead -- well, I've already heard the opinions that another government can eventually amend it, so let the proposal really have some overlap and really aim at it. I'm not gonna talk here any longer, so I don't set an example or follow in the footsteps of those who are trying to obstruct us so that we can be practical in Dawn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u22	Thank you to President Okamur. Now, Minister Mrs Jourová, then Minister Jiří Dienstbier, then Mr Klán, who is duly enrolled in the debate. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u23	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to respond to what has been said here about the need or the need to introduce the effectiveness of the Service Act to 1. 1. 2015, and then I would still make a few municipal remarks on the law we are discussing. It is quite clear both from a number of official and informal discussions with representatives of the European Commission, from the Directorate of Employment and from the Directorate of Regio, that the Commission insists that the law in the Czech Republic be effective to 1. 1. 2015. So we have it in the record of the negotiations, and we have it in several so-called official states, where this condition is clearly stated. That is, if we are trying to discuss the law today so that it is effective to 1. 1. next year, we do so with the full weight of responsibility for unlocking the barrier for drawing European funds, which are reserved for the Czech Republic for the years 2014 to 2020. I can document it in written documents, but I think this statement of mine might be enough. Anyway, more generally, what Mr Kalousek said was that in the material that he lectured here and which was published - I say so, it's published, it's nothing against anything, so I don't think we're trying to prepare an ideal law that will suit Brussels. We are preparing a law that we need as the Czech Republic in the long term, not because of European funds, but because of the Republic itself, in order to professionalise and modernise the Czech government. The European Union is, please nicely, 28 states and those countries have their history, their tradition, their system of politics and public administration. Of course, there are nationalities in those states that are subject to some cultural patterns and traditions. It is therefore not possible to seek a law that fits the ideal idea of Brussels. There is no such law, and those who have looked at the comparison of service laws and public administration systems in different European countries have had to do so. In short, every law, however much we try to preserve the general one that actually teaches us membership of the Union, is preaching to us the European legislation that we participate in, so each country has its own specific, which is reflected in national legislation. This means, absolutely necessarily, in the Civil Service Act that we are presenting, it must reflect these state specifics of ours that are based on history, tradition, etc., from everything I have said that is what distinguishes individual Member States. I therefore reject the view that if we make a law that Brusel will criticise, then we are making a bad law. I think it is up to us to argue why the law is good for the Czech Republic. We do not want to climb towards the European Union. That was also said here in what Mr Kalousek here said. It is precisely by defending our ways that we show that we are a Member State of the European Union. I say again that it is a hard condition for European funds, the so-called ex ante consistency, that I can prove it, including the term that I have also mentioned. Now, in general, what I consider to be important in the Service Act. A lot is referred to as a kind of mantra towards funds. It's something many people don't think care much about. It's a very strange and demanding material that we had to handle in six months. I think there's a lot of work to be done on what we're translating. It should be recalled once again that previous governments did not fully implement the law. I have to say frankly that, while working on the amendment to the Service Act, I have often thought to myself that I quite understand that it was a concern to bring the law into effect. It is not only because it is a law that has the potential to completely disrupt the state administration. He should have the potential to fix it, modernize it, professionalize it. [[12.40 hours]] I think that in delaying the effectiveness of our predecessors in governments - different, because it has actually lasted since 2002 - there was also some concern that the law would bring great self-limitation to politicians. I think that the law, if it is to work, as it is prepared, means that the sphere of politics is to be separated from the sphere of professional executive government, that we can get very close to what I have always admired personally, for example, in the UK, where I, when I interned, saw that politicians knew where they started and ended their authority, that they should deal with strategies and policies and that the performance that will be flawless and impartial should be left to professional officials. That is where I would like us to go, above all, by bringing about the effectiveness of the service law. The purpose of the law is, as is often repeated, depoliticization. I don't really like that word because it's an operation, and it doesn't really know what it is. This is exactly what I was talking about, for example, in Great Britain. But the purpose of the law is also the modernisation of the Czech state administration. We know that we are living in a rapidly changing world, and the Czech government should be able to reflect changes in the surrounding world and should also be able to bring these changes into life and help the positive innovation that we have in society. Furthermore, the service law should bring stability. I've worked as a project management instructor for years, and I've tested hundreds of people for team roles. The test - in case you're interested - is called Belbinův's typology, where people are actually finding out what role they're supposed to play on the team. I'm not going to describe it in too much detail. Anyway, when I did those tests to the clerks, I always found out that the clerk's type is a guy who likes stability, doesn't like risks, he's quite afraid of risks, if we nod him out of the stability, his performance is falling considerably and, of course, he's signing up for his work. If you were wondering, there aren't too many innovators in the Czech administration, as I understand from the tests, there aren't too many strong developers, there aren't too many people who want to change things. And I say it's so good because the government is supposed to have this basic property, which is stability. I think that the service law can bring this stability, it can bring solace, even though by the time we implement it, the government may be partially nervous, destabilized, but I believe it will only be for a short transitional period. Stability is related to continuity. As a person who is struggling with the systems of drawing European funds, I consider this to be a very difficult problem for the Czech public administration in general, that it is discounting, that after each election people change in key positions and that, in fact, elections always mean a considerable amount of decline in performance before the elections, because they are so-called waiting, and then, before the new system is started often with new people, of course, the performance is slowly starting. By the way, now it's been shown to us that we're being criticized for negotiating a slide partnership agreement. Unfortunately, the Polák had no elections, and they could have sent the agreement to Brussels in January. We couldn't do it because we were waiting for a new government. However, I must say here that to a large extent this is a good thing, because the new government had the opportunity to reflect its programming priorities on the agreement. Anyway, continuity and institutional memory is something that we very necessarily need in the public administration. I will go back to why the European Commission is so strongly pushing us to have a service law that will have European standards and which will reflect Czech conditions. European funds are a special agenda. It's not a day-to-day operation - and now I apologize to all the officials who do the surgery - where it's stamped at an angle of eternity. And again, I'm sorry, I don't mean it badly. You have time, money and people in European funds. The use of European funds is a classic project management. Which is why we need those teams to be stable and to implement the projects without any fluctuations. Another problem why the European Commission is pushing for a service law is that if you are a subsidy-sharing officer, who may be a project-qualified official, or even decides that some projects have failed to comply with formal requirements, and makes a proposal for exclusion, then these officials are under enormous pressure. It may be the pressure of applicants, various interest economic groups, and unfortunately political pressures. It is very desirable that officials implementing European funds should not have to fear these pressures and be stable in their positions. I say this with the full weight of the responsibility of the person who now manages the subsidy resort and who also experienced the time around 2004 and 2005 when some officials were afraid of certain pressures, and I was very glad at the time that they stood it up, I have to say. But the atmosphere of uncertainty is not good. The European Commission sees that lack of service law, virtually. its absence, causes major fluctuations in the Czech administration, large fluctuations and major problems with performance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to have a rich discussion here, because of course everyone's suggestions are important. I know that there will also be an opposition to some of the proposals that have fallen or fallen here, but I would very much like everyone to accept the part of the responsibility that we believe to be the service law from 1. 1. 2015 effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u24	Thank you, Minister Věra Jourová. Now I have a shrink of factual remarks before Prime Minister Dienstbier's priority right. The first is Mr Miroslav Kalousek with a factual remark, then Mr Stanjura and Mr Fiala. Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes to make a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u25	Thank you for the floor. Minister Jourová is right that we are doing this law for the Czech Republic, not primarily for the European Union. The problem, Madam Secretary, is that your government colleagues have been shielding themselves from this European Commission and taking her hostage. That is probably why it was necessary to read the opinion of the European Commission, which proves that your government colleagues here sometimes lie as if they were printing. First of all. Two. Yes, we claim that the law should be in favour of the Czech Republic and for the benefit of Czech taxpayers. However, if we look at public budgets, we can see this from a certain point of view as an eternal struggle between well-organized minorities who want the most out of those public budgets, against the disorganized majority, which is called taxpayers. And we have legitimate concerns about what you do at the various ministries, that you are not trying anything but to put people in government who will fight against the disorganized majority, which is called taxpayers, in favour of organized minorities, and we are not going to allow that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u26	I thank the President for his time. Another factual point by Mr Stanjura. Mr President, you also have two minutes to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u27	Thank you for the floor. The Minister's words about the depoliticization and - says the state services, I would talk about the public service. [[unintelligible]] We who came from the town hall and went through this, so we very much do not like to see the distinction between better officials, more important are the ministerial, and the others, which may be more in the sum. But much more would be believed if it wasn't after you brought 700 new people from January to April in three months. Now, after three months, we're going to ask for up-to-date information from the Ministry again, it's the answers provided under Act 106 by the various ministries, it's not an imaginary number. [[12.50 hours]] That's what they say - I'll bring in a thousand people, or 700 people, to be correct, see how much it's going to be at the end of July, and now it's the right moment to leave them there, now they're the right ones. Maybe you're right, though. I'm not saying they're not the right ones. But it would be much better listened if it were at the end of the term, or at least halfway through, and not after the massive exchange, especially at some offices. It's just not true that everyone changes with the arrival of the minister. We, I, take the stand that the Minister has the right to bring in a team of collaborators. In this proposal, the Minister is a puppet in the hands of that office. I heard yesterday morning, afternoon, evening on TV, now I hear again that you will negotiate with the opposition. I don't know which one. No one's offered it to us yet. Don't confuse the public that you want to deal with the opposition. Yes, if you give us a deadline, we'll make an agenda, we'll be happy to act. We are prepared to lay down reasonable conditions, if we agree on them, so the law will pass very quickly and it will be much better than it is in this state and at this point. But we haven't received any such offer yet - what isn't, can be, I don't rule it out, it would only be good. A bill like this that's ready, it's not allowed to pass, and we're gonna do it. [[Time limit alert.]] We'll make sure he doesn't pass.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u28	Now, President Petr Fiala, on a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must return to the condition of the European Union that we are still hearing about here. There is a letter from yesterday from the European Commission that will re-establish that condition. And the Minister referred again to some conditions of the European Commission. Let's see how it is. The only condition of ex ante consistency is "the existence of a strategic policy framework for strengthening the efficiency of public administration of Member States, including public administration reform'. Well, we have part of the public administration and its work in the law regulated. We do not have the Civil Service Act, but in no way does the Commission provide for this condition as something on the basis of which a partnership agreement would be signed or not. When you're telling us this, it's just not true, and you're well aware of it. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the Commission is still applying the principle of proportionality in the case of the Partnership Agreement, and the Commission itself has explicitly formulated this. And that simply means that if any of these approximate conditions cannot be met, there is no reason in itself for the Partnership Agreement not to be signed. And if you don't believe me, which I can imagine, and you are making a mistake because I understand the European Union quite well, then listen to what the people of the European Commission are saying. People from the European Commission's representation in the Czech Republic say: "You have time to accept these conditions by 2016 at the latest." So don't mess with us here and the deadlines, and don't tell us that if we don't pass the service bill right now, there's gonna be some kind of disaster. It will not happen, we will be able to draw money even without the adoption of the Service Act this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u30	Thank you for keeping time. Now with priority rights, Minister Dienstbier and then rapporteur. Then perhaps a debate, but only after a break. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u31	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by stressing that the Civil Service Act is truly a turning point, because for the first time in the modern history of the Czech Republic, it is intended to introduce an independent professional and effective civil service. We can and will undoubtedly talk here about the extent to which a government or a government coalition has prepared a good bill. I am convinced that the proposal is of good quality and meets the basic prerequisites for achieving the stated objectives that I have mentioned. It is, of course, as is the case with every law, the result of some negotiations and therefore compromises, and I would certainly find some parts there that, if they were to my liking, would look a little different. However, compromise is part of our trade. I would like to stress that there has been a debate as broad as the Civil Service Act in a few of the laws. A number of seminars were held, attended by the professional public, representatives of political parties, including opposition parties. Various aspects of the law were discussed at these seminars. The bill was discussed with non-profit organizations, in the first place with the Reconstruction of the State whose representative was involved, and this is an entirely unique situation of coalition negotiations on the Service Act. I don't know if a coalition has brought a representative of the non-profit sector to such meetings in the past. Comments The reconstruction of the State and other non-profits were settled on a continuous basis. I'm not saying we agreed on everything. It's never like that, and it can't be. Then, of course, the proposal was repeatedly and very widely consulted by representatives of the opposition. I know that both President Stanjura and representatives of the TOP 09 deny it here, but I can prove that we have held several many-hour meetings where we discussed the bill in detail. We have discussed both the amendments that we ourselves want to put forward, so we have also discussed the amendments of the opposition, including legislative technical support, in the formulation of these proposals. Some of them were even adopted on the Constitutional Legal Committee. Yes, some of the opposition's proposals have been adopted. Some of the partial quite, somewhere we met partially, of course not exactly as it was designed to fit into the concepts of the proposed law. I could just mention the demand for greater penetration of the public service from outside and not just from self-government, but mainly from the area of self-government. Here I would mention the amendment, which is based on Mrs Kovářová's TOP 09 proposal, where, on the one hand, we have recognised the test of special competence, which is passed by officials of the self-government, as well as the fact that the practice for the exercise of functions or participation in the selection procedure takes place at some places presented, namely the heads of departments, but also by the directors of the trade unions, which is already quite a high position in the state administration. So what I have to say here is that no one would deal with the opposition, that she wouldn't get the space, that she wouldn't have time to study as she sounded yesterday, because 45 days I think against the practice that TOP 09 and ODS have put in place here in the past, as I pointed out yesterday, when the entire laws were recorded at the second reading at the last minute, without anyone knowing what the vote is about, 45 days just isn't enough. I insist. The meeting for the opposition - 17 June this year and 24 June, actually a half-day meeting with the opposition to settle and to discuss amendments before the negotiations of the two committees that discussed this bill, I also think that there is no indication that the opposition would be ignored in this debate. I will now get to the draft comments from the European Commission, read here by President Kalousek. I must stress that we did not have what was read here before today's meeting. These are not comments that were unofficially transmitted to us last week. What President Kalousek here has read is the official position of the European Commission signed by Mrs Catherine Day, who arrived at the cabinet by e-mail from the Commission today at 10.33. [[dissenting noise]] Already about 15 minutes later, about the same time that he was delivered from the cabinet to me, this is where President Kalousek stepped on the microphone and read this statement here. That's when I received it. It is a bit strange that the position that Catherine Day's Secretary General has signed today has already been translated into Czech by President Kalousek. I think that unfortunately, in this case, this is not very good for the quality of the European Commission's service, because it is not standard for something that is passed on officially to have the opposition before it is formally delivered. I would just like to point out that no one could have withheld anything here because no one on the Government's side had anything like this until the moment of President Kalousek's speech. And now for the contents. In addition to some of the critical points that Mr Kalousek has commented on, the key one is probably about the date of effectiveness. Yes, it is true that the draft opinion states that, in addition to the date that the Commission is welcome, quality is of course more important. However, it is necessary to read this in the context of other documents provided by the European Commission. I've already quoted one here, but to make sure there's no doubt, I'll read it all and literally. I'm sorry, so I'm going to read here one A4 proposal for a partnership agreement, which is quite clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u32	Minister, of course I can ask the House to be lenient, because we have a lunch break at 13 o'clock according to our schedule, but I wouldn't like to interrupt you otherwise, but I must warn you, of course. So it's up to you whether you want to read it now or after the break, because, of course, I would give you my word without violating the order that I have so far ahead of me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u33	Mr Vice-President, at the very least I will finish this part of the performance, although I have other comments, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u34	I will, of course, allow you to do that. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u35	Because this is what's important to say here. So the proposal for a partnership agreement is: "The Czech Republic will take a significant step towards modernising the state administration by introducing high-quality, stable, efficient, professional and transparent public services, as defined in specific recommendations for Member States 2014. The aim is to achieve the professionalisation and depoliticisation of management and personnel processes in state administration bodies. In the framework of the ongoing legislative process, while respecting the privileges of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Czech Government undertakes to incorporate the following key elements into the Civil Service Act in order to comply with specific recommendations for Member States and with preliminary conditions under the thematic objective 11: 1. Determination of the principles and fundamental values for the civil service that employees should follow. 2. Improving the stability of public administration: the setting of state authorities should be based on a thorough analysis of available resources and related policy programmes and supervised by a specific body such as the Directorate-General of State Services. The boundaries and interactions between political and official layers should be clearly defined. 3. Admission to the service - administrative examination: the law should ensure the development of a system of admission to the service based on transparent testing of skills and competences. 4. Reward: the law should provide for a transparent system based on performance. In addition, the Government undertakes to ensure a comprehensive scope of the law covering all entities that perform the administration and all its employees, regardless of their legal status and where necessary with very limited and duly justified exceptions. In conclusion, it undertakes to accelerate the effective implementation of the Act, which will enter into force by 1 January 2015, so yesterday's opinions were fully in line with the European Commission's request, "while all the Staff Regulations - Regulations, Decrees, Guidelines - will enter into force and will be fully implemented by the end of 2015. These must be formally approved at the time when the programmes of the European Structural Investment Funds are adopted.' In other words, we will not get a crown, we will be stopped drawing if these conditions are not fulfilled, because we will not be approved operational programmes for drawing European funds. Further: "The Czech Republic is fully aware of the importance of changing the paradigm of the present state administration into a modern state service and therefore decided to continue with the highest transparency and to include all relevant parties in order to achieve maximum social and political agreement on this matter." In other words, yesterday's speech, when we said here that there is a clear requirement for the effectiveness of the Act on 1 January, is based on the clear position of the European Commission. By the way, the same position as Catherine Day, the Secretary-General of the European Commission, is in charge of the service bill. In other words, these two documents need to be read as a whole and it is clear that this categorical requirement by the European Commission is here. We have even tried to negotiate a more moderate form of this commitment, and so far it has been clearly rejected by the European Commission. So if we're being accused of lying here, Mr. Kalousek, if you're using a lie as your work tool, don't judge us! We don't use lies. And I will comment in more detail on the content of the comments later, in order not to prevent lunch break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u36	Thank you, Minister. And, of course, thank you for the promise that you will perform with the application properly with priority rights. I will announce a lunch break with the fact that the rapporteur will come forward before properly entered into a priority right debate, then Mr Marek Černoch on behalf of the President of the club, who therefore represents the President of the club of the Úsvit movement today, but will perform before them with a factual remark by Miroslav Kalousek, who will therefore be the first one at 14.30. [[Mr Sklenák also reported and asked the President when he would be.]] No, I asked the Minister to interrupt so I could call a break. Mr. Chairman, let's respect that. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u37	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, after a good lunch in good company over a good topic. We will continue our meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, allow me to offer my apologies. Minister Helena Válková apologizes today from 15 to 18 o'clock for work reasons, and Mr Karel Pražák apologizes today for the afternoon hearing for health reasons. We should continue the debate and I will confess because I do not have colleagues - I have here Mr Chvojka, rapporteur, registered with priority rights, but he is not here at the moment, unfortunately. Then I have a name here that I can't read, so please, if you've been logged in with a priority right and I can't read it... Then yell. [[Notes in the hall: Dienstbier. A kalousek with a tech.]] Mr. Chvojka is not here. The rapporteur later. And now I know that what I can't read should be Mr. Černoch during the Dawn movement. Thank you. I will therefore ask Mr Černoch with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u38	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I applied before lunch, but we had a lunch break, because I would like to ask the Minister about one quite important thing. Yesterday I watched on TV when his mouth said that everything was better than a waste of years ago. I know that, as has been said, he did not have the information he has today, when the European Commission said that, of course, he welcomes the law of service, but not at the expense of quality. So speed isn't at the expense of quality. I just want to ask the Minister if it's possible for him to answer what's next, now, at this point. Because the European Commission said that the service law should not be at the expense of quality. In that case it is possible to complete this law, it is possible to work on it because there is no information yet. One of these, I think, very important information, is that it is not known how much this is going to cost, how much financial difficulty it will cost, which I also heard yesterday, that currently data are still being collected to update and specify this information in some way, so it is not actually given, it is not clear how much it will cost. Of course, we're talking about billions of crowns, so I don't think they're tiny little ones that can just be washed away so quickly. So what happens now, at this point, next? The law, as it is here, I think everyone seems to agree, so it's not finished yet. It could be worked on, and information about the failure to draw funds in the order of CZK 500 billion without this law is not true. So whether this is going to work on it or whether it will continue to be that at any cost this proposal, or this service law, which is whether there will be an effort to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u39	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Another with priority rights, which was applied for, was Minister Dienstbier. It's written right here. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u40	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I originally wanted to discuss in detail the various reservations quoted here from the opinion of the European Commission. It is true that, after watching the TOP 09 and the ODS press conference, I don't even know if it makes sense, because we learned before that the law is quite poor, but that if we adopt four minor amendments, it is actually quite insignificant that they will vote otherwise for the wrong law. The four minor amendments are such as the abolition of the General Directorate of State Service, nothing more, nothing less. And as I was saying here, it basically means working out a whole new bill with all its connections. I do not think that such an extortionist approach would be acceptable, because the position that either, dear government coalition, you will accept what we want, or we will block everything and we will not discuss anything but the approval of these four amendments is not a fair partnership approach either. I don't think it's worth discussing any details around here. We will probably prepare a rather written response, a detailed written response to all the individual points that have been raised in this opinion, because we think that, apart from the minor exceptions, what the European Commission itself mentions, even if it itself mentions critical remarks, it is basically already there. It is more a question of explanation than of redesigning the law, and in some cases, of course, we are willing to talk about meaningful amendments. We can, as I've already announced, talk about the extent of external penetration. As I also said, I can imagine the penetration of public institutions, but I also said that we don't want any more Šiška in the state administration from the business. These are roughly the limits from my point of view for the debate on amendments to this law. But, as I said, I insist that there are many compromises from my point of view, so the law is quite good, it is solid, it is able to secure the declared objectives of independent, professional, effective government, of course not immediately, but by applying some long-term principles that are mentioned there. And if I am asked here by the representative of the Úsvit movement for my statement yesterday that what we have seen in previous years in the state administration has often been wasted, I insist that because our administration is not the fault of officials, but because of how politically managed, what has been done there, led by the political will very often, it has not been effective, the independence has often not been discussed at all, and I have expressed myself in the sense that any stabilising rules are better than what we have experienced so far in recent years. Perhaps even a response to President Stanjura's speech before the break, which blamed changes in the offices that are being carried out now, and actually here it was suggested how better it was for them. Yes. We need the law to rid all politicians, regardless of which parties they are, of the temptation to overwhelm the Ministry of Personnel every time someone new comes in, in their image, and thereby ensure stability. And I would also like to remind Mirek Topolánek, Chairman of the ODS and Prime Minister, who, when his government came in, spoke of the night of long knives in the state administration, and this night of long knives also implemented the ODS very consistently. And we do not want a night of long knives for the future, neither by the ODS, but by any other government, either from the left, from the right, or from any side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u41	Thank you, Minister. Another with priority rights is the President of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. After that, with a procedural proposal by Mr Klán. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u42	Thank you for the floor. Minister Dienstbier here, in response to my performance, said he didn't understand how I could read it to you this morning already translated into Czech when he only got it at 10:30 at his office in English. I must say that this lie is very flattering to me, and I should let it live with my own life because it attributes me to supernatural abilities, but unfortunately I do not have the supernatural powers and the explanation is much more prosaic - Minister Dienstbier is lying. He has these comments, although unofficially, I have stressed that they are unofficial, since 28 July, which I suspect is 18 days - June, sorry, from 28 June, which is almost three weeks, and he is hiding them from us all, because it would logically undermine his argument on this bill. Minister Dienstbier said he was trying to talk to the opposition. The problem is that both the heads of opposition clubs, whether Stanjura or Kalousek, don't know that. Minister Dienstbier here has told us how they accepted the comments of the State Reconstruction, and I, probably many of you, have a major disagreement in your email, a critical disapproval of the State Reconstruction of this pasquil. The Minister refers to the European Commission and the European Commission has sent us three pages of very critical comments. I am very sorry, colleagues, Minister Dienstbier lies in the morning, at noon and evening. I wouldn't be surprised if he lied, even though he's probably mumbling in his sleep because he can't do it any other way. Maybe we could name his portfolio the Ministry of Lies and Disinformation. In this way, we cannot properly discuss such an important law. Let's talk seriously about him, let's stop lying, let's stop denying the materials we have and say we didn't have them. I'm sure we can come to an agreement and make a deal soon. However, Minister, if you say that some of our demands are unacceptable to us, the law will simply not be. You want the law? We want him, and we only have four demands. And if it just seems unacceptable to you, the law won't be, and it will be your responsibility, because you're doing the obstructions and you don't want to make a deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u43	Thank you to President Kalousek. If the honourable House allows, if no one objects, Mr Klán, as a representative of the electoral committee, will declare the term of the election committee at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which has been convened today. You will also be informed in writing, and I will ask Vice-President Klán for your information. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm the President of the Election Commission, not the Election Committee, but that's just a detail. As you have already heard, another extraordinary meeting has been convened for signatures and, given that there will be a point of change at this meeting in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, I must declare a deadline for the submission of proposals for amendments to the composition of the Chamber of Deputies by Tuesday 22 July 2014 within 15 hours. Submit your proposals to the Secretariat of the Election Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u45	I thank the Vice-President of the Election Commission. I apologize for changing the name from committee to committee. I now have three requests with priority rights. First of all, the President of the Civil Democratic Party, Petr Fiala, followed by a Member of the Černoch Party with priority rights. After him with priority rights, Minister Dienstbier. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. At this point, I wanted to summarize the opinion of the Civil Democratic Party on the present law, but it will not allow me not to mention some of the things that Minister Dienstbier said in his speech. To begin with, let me say again that the Civil Democratic Party certainly wants a service law, but a service law that will be of real quality. We need a law that does not complicate the situation for officials, but improves -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u47	I am very sorry, Mr President, but I must interrupt you because unfortunately there is no peace in the Chamber. I'll ask you to continue when the House is down. Anyone who wants to discuss, please leave the meeting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u48	Thank you. We need a service law that does not complicate the situation for officials but improves, and above all, we need a service law that ensures a quality and professional service to citizens. And that's not the law we're discussing today. Regarding what Minister Dienstbier said - and I do not want to point out again that we are discussing this law in a very unstandard manner, but I will only mention some of the circumstances again. The government coalition has submitted a bill to the Chamber of Deputies for the January meeting at first reading and has thus fulfilled President Zeman's absurd condition, which he should not have given or accepted at all, and after almost five months he is presenting us with a completely new law, which has not been discussed by the government, which has not been dealt with by the standard commentary procedure and which has not actually been submitted to the House at first reading. Instead, it was only June 27 that the so-called a comprehensive amendment to the Constitutional Committee. But this proposal was a really new law. It was delivered to the Members on 3 July and on 7 July an extraordinary meeting was convened, and today we have a second reading, but it is indeed the first reading. Take only one number or two numbers: the explanatory note had 20 pages, the amendment of the constitutional law committee has 84 pages and 201 paragraphs, so it is clear that these are different texts. Despite all the efforts that we have made as an opposition party, a constructive opposition party, have devoted our time to discussing this material, so I must say - and we have been willing to approach it - so I must say that we are extremely disappointed and disappointed in its quality. It is evident that, firstly, if we accept this, it will bring confusion into the system and for a time it will paralyze the operation of the state administration. This amendment would bring more bureaucracy, more administration, more unnecessary powers of officials. And thirdly, above all, it will bring benefits to the government's current nominees and collaborators, but it will not bring anything to high-quality officials who work for the state in the long term, it will bring nothing to the citizens of our country, and it will bring nothing to the Czech Republic. Why? This is not a law for better governance, it is not a law that provides better prospects, but it is a law for the President, and as we hear it at this moment, it is a law that is adopted for the European Commission, the European Union. At the same time, we have said here, and I have also said that the European Commission has no such condition that we now have to adopt a service law in August or July, and that we can draw the resources of the European Structural Funds without this law. And, of course, it is better not to have such an extremely bad law at all than to adopt it at speed and cause great chaos in the administration for many years in advance. In my opinion, the government should focus more on other things that the European Commission makes conditional on the signing of the Partnership Agreement. We have some 88 objections at the moment, maybe some of them are already settled, I don't know, but if you look at them, there are a lot of serious tasks and improvements to the public procurement system, better documentation in the field of transport, the environment, energy, precise rules for selecting managers of European funds and a lot of other things that we need to focus on, which we should be dealing with in particular, rather than dealing with the wrong draft service law. Ladies and gentlemen, our goal cannot be to adopt the Civil Service Act in itself. Our aim is to create an environment where the official will have no room for different interpretations of the same situations, where it will be clear what the citizen can and can't do, where conditions will be created to ensure that the service provided by the State is of good quality. That doesn't even ensure this law. It's not a law that protects us from corruption. On the contrary, it will introduce a new corruption environment among officials who will name each other almost for life and be irrevocable. [[14.50 hours]] For example, I do not understand the reasons which led the petitioners to determine the term of office of the Director-General, his Deputy Minister and the State Secretary for seven years. Or why the petitioners - and nowhere has it been explained - want to pay up to 12 severance payments. That's a thing the public sector doesn't know, and even the private sphere doesn't know. Why should the service be automatically terminated when 70 years of age, regardless of the outcome of the service evaluation, etc. These are things that do not have an analogy in the public sector or in the private sector. As a result of this law, and there I fear that it is no longer unthinkable, that it is no longer just a result of the chaotic preparation, but that it is an intention, the main result of this law will be the concreteization of people into decisive positions for up to 14 years. If you don't believe it, count me in. The government will select the Director General and his deputy for seven years, he will also select the State Secretary for seven years, and in 2022 a new CEO will be selected - but beware! - it can only be his deputy or state secretary whom the Director-General had previously appointed. That's a crazy and dangerous structure, and I think anyone who looks at it with common sense, regardless of political affiliation, you have to see that. It is not a law that would simplify and speed up the operation of the authorities and reduce bureaucracy, but vice versa - a new super office will be added, new commissions will be added, which, according to unclear criteria, will select and evaluate officials, new quasi-functions and new positions will be added. It is not even a law that would offer a working perspective for civil servants, and that was supposed to be one of the objectives of this law. But this law does not guarantee civil servants, it does not define a career path, it does not give them attractive educational opportunities, and it does not substantially change their pay grade in any reasonable way. All that really changes for officials - for senior officials or for senior officials in lower and middle positions - are the new absurd titles that will mark each other according to their qualifications: the Chief Officer, the Board of Directors, the Council of Ministers, the Board of Ministers, the Governing Council. Not only to me, but undoubtedly to you, these marks also remind you of the time of the first Republic, but rather of the films for commemorators, where the top councils and ministerial councils also perform, would in practice resemble the Kafka situation, when one spends more time knocking on the gate and thinking about how to properly title an official to get any answers at all, rather than some reasonable qualification system and structure of the state administration, which we are all - at least I hope all - wanted to create. It is not even a law that brings high-quality officials, because the administrative exams will be composed in front of other officials, they will be composed in a new office at the Office of the Government, they will be evaluated again by officials, and all of this instead of using the capacity we have, so that these tests can be composed, for example, on the neutral ground of universities with sufficient staff, sufficient experience, they have the background to handle this agenda effectively and cheaply. And then there are some really strange paradoxes. The law explicitly states that higher education is not considered to be a university education for these purposes from the university of the ÚV KSČ, which is of course okay, but the Soviet Moscow Institute of International Relations is recognised on the contrary. At the same time, the law in another place allows high-quality existing officials to forgive the condition of education at all if they have proved themselves in the long term. Moreover, it seems that the administrative examination that I have already mentioned here is in this law only for the form, because it will be composed only after the official has been accepted, even though it has been accepted for a certain period. That means the moment he can handle his work agenda, but he won't pass his second exam, he'll be released. This is extremely expensive, inefficient and completely pointless at first sight. It is also unclear why it is not possible to pass the administrative exam more than twice. If I can't pass part of the exam at the Ministry of Transport, a special part of the exam for transport, I could apply for a job at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in a year and pass the exam in this area without any problems. But I'm not saying that the test system is good, I'm just pointing out the absurdities that we can find in the logic of this system. It seems that the whole law instead of opening up the state administration to improve it, to motivate people to go into the public service, to motivate people to educate themselves, will create a closed, impenetrable system of lifelong officials who will choose between themselves and who will emerge from the political nominees of the current government. It is not even a law that will speed up the administration in its operation, but it will block it. The law defines different types of deputys, at least two who have no precisely defined competence. The cooperation of these two types of deputys - one that controls something, one that doesn't control anything - is really hard to imagine, and I think anyone who runs a larger institution or ministry understands what I'm talking about. Such a structure will lead to a single - paralyzing of ministries and not being able to be effectively politically managed. The Minister, if we do accept this law, he will have virtually no personal authority, nor will he have any political responsibility to his closest subordinates, nor to the deputy officers who run the sections, but what remains of him will be political responsibility. If you've ever driven anything, you know very well that responsibility without authority is useless and only leads to things stopping working. Of course, the creation of a new super office will not contribute to the acceleration of the work of the Czech authorities. The Directorate-General with almost 40 employees will evaluate from a distance the work of officials at individual ministries, will decide on their employment classification, will coordinate administrative examinations and education. But the job, this job, is now normally done by personnel units at individual ministries! And I've already talked about the fact that higher education activities can be done much better here. [[15.00 hours]] It's not even a law that depoliticizes the state administration, because the current government just concretes its representatives there for seven or fourteen years. I don't want to go back to what we talked about a couple of times, but I'm gonna reminisce about the facts. In the first three months, this government released 500 competent officials and instead accepted its people - and accepted 200 more. And in the coming months, no doubt, we'll know soon enough, she has made hundreds of other changes. So the whole thing looks like there's a low-quality law set up here that no one has thought about, but it's thought about one thing - how to make our people stay on those ministries as best they can. I have to ask again: To whom does this law really have to serve, to whom does the civil service have to serve? Who are we preparing such a law for? For the European Union, how does it sound here? That's completely absurd. For the President? His condition has already been met, so we don't have to do it. For the clerks? This law doesn't bring any power to honest and reasonable officials. Or are we preparing it for the politicians of some parties? But that's too bad! All these questions - but all of them, not me, not my political party - must be answered "No!". The only correct answer we have to give is that the government is here for the citizens, it is intended to serve them, and we must prepare this law in order to ensure good governance. And we certainly don't do that in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a law that deserves the Czech Republic and that deserves its citizens. This law will complicate the existing system. In addition to what I was talking about, I will remind you that we will have to, if we adopt the law, and I hope that this will not happen, quickly change the organisational structure of the ministries, at least some. We will have to systemize jobs, issue new service IDs, prepare and undergo administrative exams, etc. etc. The law will bring unequal conditions. It'll bring more red tape. It will bring more room for the government of officials. At the same time, it offers no good conditions to young people who would like to work for the state. It closes as I have now understood Minister Dienstbier, knowingly state administration for people from the private sphere, which I consider to be a mistake, but also for people with foreign experience, for people from public institutions. And what does he create? It creates a new bureaucracy and a new office called the Directorate-General of State Services. If I ask myself why we have such a low-quality bill here, one answer may be - because it didn't matter exactly what the law contained, and it was just to somehow strengthen our people in ministries. But the second answer is also a warning and can be seen in the whole law, on every paragraph of it - the lawmakers didn't, they didn't follow any vision. They had no concept. They have no idea about the state administration. Their goal was not the good government, but the concreteization of the state administration. It's not even a new law after all. It's kind of a set of special exceptions. If you look at how many exceptions there are for existing officials, for fellow Prime Minister, ministers, deputy ministers, for existing officials, it is a law that contains a number of special exceptions that do not even ever fully match together. Let me give you an example of absurdity. This law applies to certain institutions which are to be independent of the nature of the matter. I'm not going to name the most famous of them - the Office for the Protection of Competition, etc., etc. - but I'll mention one agency, a Technological Agency that falls under this law. The Technological Agency was designed quite recently as an analogy to the Grant Agency. Both agencies are to take the same form, the same organisation, one divides the funds for basic research, one for research applied, and they are to be independent of the State. What's going on here? The Technological Agency shall be subject to this law and shall be exempt from it by the Bureau of the Technological Agency. It's okay. Thus, the Bureau of the Technology Agency will be appointed by the Government on the basis of recommendations from the Council on Research, Development and Innovation. But the same law states that the chairman of the Technology Agency is not exempt. So the Bureau of the Technological Agency will be exempt from the law, appointed by the Government on the basis of a recommendation from its expert advisory body, and the Chairman of the Technological Agency will appoint an official at the Office of the Government, because under this law the Office of the Government is the superior service office for the Technological Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, if we agree to this law, with what we have proposed here, I will show you on one particular example, which I could name a hundred, what absurdities we will commit and what confusion and chaos we will bring into our administration. On the basis of all these arguments - and I am grateful to you for this, even to the members of the government coalition, that at least in this case you have listened to me - on the basis of all these arguments, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, who are not here, Prime Minister, to withdraw this law from the hearing, to have it prepared again and better. And I guarantee it, I promise you that the civil democrats are ready to actively participate in improving this legislative standard. I reaffirm what President Kalousek and President Stanjura said here - no one treated us, no offer as opposition party chairman at the hearing of this law. Nobody asked us anything. Your talk about how we could participate, how we were offered, how we could participate is false. No one has offered us anything, and yet we are ready to take part in these negotiations and work on a quality standard. This legislation, too, needs to be realized, will affect 65,000 civil servants, but will have an impact on all citizens of the Czech Republic as a result. Well, then we can't accept the nonsense that we have here. Perhaps I would add that - and this is also not negligible, who you have ever managed, even if it is a small grocery store, you must know - we lack the cost of implementing this service law. We don't even know the level of impact on the state budget. We're here to approve something we just don't know what's gonna cost us all. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat once again, we are ready to participate in a high-quality Civil Service Act. We don't have a lot of conditions. We have actually four basics, I will remind them here - the abolition of the Institute of the Directorate-General, the openness of state services at all levels for self-government officials, but also for people from the academic and private sphere, we want to keep the Deputys as a management degree of the Service Office, and we want to ensure staff continuity and stability. We have only one objective - we want a quality service law that will ensure professional government and bring quality service to our citizens. Prime Minister, I'm calling on you again to stop this nonsense. Start dealing with the opposition and let us prepare together a quality law on civil service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u49	I thank Members of the Fial. Before Mr Černoch comes forward with the right of priority for the Dawn movement, I have here a factual remark by Mr Karel Rais. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u50	Mr President, thank you. I would like to Fial him, in the direction of my colleague, that the e-mail we received from the Technological Agency from both sides, we have drawn up the specific example in the form of an amendment. So I think for the next time, it would be good for a counterparty to pull out the arguments that are, I would say, out of her workshop, and not more or less publicly accessible. This particular example is simply solved in the form of an amendment by my colleague Kubíček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u51	Thank you for the factual remark to Mr Rais. Now, with priority rights, Mr Black. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u52	Thank you. I'll go back to the Minister, his words, because the reaction should be for that. Once again, Minister, I apologize, but I will quote you from yesterday's TV interview when you said it was a relatively solid bill. I have to say, I'm a little sad that when we proposed some proposals as Dawn, we were criticized for missing a dot behind a sentence in the sense of legislative scumbags. I think that these are just as important things, whether it was about the territoriality of executors, as important things as the service law, and that there is no difference. And all of a sudden, there's a fight for an even bigger one - I don't want to say a scumbag, because I don't like those words very much, but a law where there's a lot of unclear things. I'm sorry to turn to you, but you are to me a man who is such a gesture of this law. You were the one who defended it, who explained it on the Constitutional Legal Committee, at the seminars. It's not supposed to be all one-on-one. I just want to ask you in this regard what's the difference between the laws. How come it's going to be here now, there's actually a law going on here, which - yesterday you said black and white, without the law there's not going to be 500 billion, today it's all a little different. I didn't get an answer on what the next move would be, whether it would stop now and it would be done, or whether it would continue to defend this law from your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u53	Thank you. Firstly, I ask the appellant to have someone sit at the table of the appellants and rapporteurs, because there is no one here and this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, it's requested here. Now with priority rights, Minister Dienstbier, after him President Stanjura, after him President Okamura. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u54	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to some of the things that have been said here, in the first place to President Kalousek, who has impertinently accused me of lying here. I'd just like to say that unlike him, I can prove what I said here, including the timeline. He can't do anything like that. If any of us are lying, it's just him, but he seems to think it's a normal tool for political competition. I don't. Another point that was made here was that the State's reconstruction issued a negative opinion on the bill. It's not true. The reconstruction of the state is a conglomerate of various non-profits who have as different views as we can hear from various parties here in the Chamber of Deputies. So yes, there are parts of Reconstruction of the State that have a more critical view, I can mention another part of Reconstruction of the State, Transparency International, which also gave a written positive opinion on the bill. President Kalousek and President Fiala here have consistently argued that no one has dealt with them, that they do not know of any such negotiations. That's not true. I have included the data here several meetings that took place with the opposition representatives. I can also say specifically for which parties who participated. For example, Mr Černoch for Dawn, Mrs Kovářová for TOP 09, Mr Klán for the Communist Party. Yes, it's true that even though they were invited, no one came to the ODS. True, it was not at the level of the Presidents, there was no such reservation in the negotiations that it would be a wish to act at a higher level, however, even at this level of work, at the level of Members - it is simply not true that these negotiations would not take place. So don't mysticize here, the space was here. If you wanted to go on a higher level, you could have requested it. You did not use this level in the case of ODS or this level that we offered. As far as standard comment procedures are concerned, yes, this bill was put forward as a Member for reasons which I myself do not consider to be entirely happy as regards forced first reading. On the other hand, there was really very high standard support from the government, there was a commentary procedure that is much more extensive than normal government bills. Even legislative representatives, personalists at individual resorts, as I said also nonprofit organizations, tripartite and ultimately opposition, as I explained here, have been consulted repeatedly. With regard to officials who are said not to welcome this bill - certainly, I, in the place of officials, could also imagine a greater amount of benefits for officials in this law, for example, a much more substantial remuneration, including a significant increase in the tariff component of the salary, but on the other hand, as I said, we discussed this bill with the unions and discussed it throughout the tripartite. We negotiated it with a union of public administration employees who welcome the adoption of the law through partial reservations of the type that I mentioned here, which are quite understandable. The law also discussed tripartite at the highest level and adopted a resolution in which both trade union representatives and employers' representatives support the adoption of this bill. President Fiala here mentioned that a super office was being created. He was talking about the Directorate General. I would like to say that the Directorate-General is not a super office, it is a very economical institution. Among other things, the creation of a Directorate-General, including efficiency, is almost the only thing that has already taken effect from the original law. So, by law, we're supposed to have the Directorate-General here for about ten years, but it was also the last time that it was constitutionalized, and the remains were scattered under Nečasův' government by deliberation to the Ministry of the Interior instead of the previous governments fulfilling the effective parts of the law, but the Directorate-General is not a super office, because President Fiala here rightly spoke of the number of 40 officials who should work there. I could be more specific, it's 37 but it doesn't matter. It's much more economical than 60 officials were originally expected. It is absolutely ridiculous against the scope of the tasks to be carried out by the Directorate-General and the role of guarantor of the independence of the civil service. It is not even a super-office in terms of influence on the decision-making of individual ministries. I already told you. The Directorate-General cannot interfere with the substantive management of ministries. The Minister, who may give instructions in this respect, is responsible for the substantive management of ministries under the law. It is logical because he has to promote his political agenda, and if he could not give tasks in this sense, he could not enforce anything. The Directorate-General guarantees only compliance with the Staff Law in relation to officials at individual ministries and is also an appeal instance against the decision of the Secretary of State in Service Affairs. Well, I don't see a super office in it. As far as independent institutions are concerned, what has been quoted here from the various opinions of the European Commission, you can read that the European Commission does not want, as far as possible, any exceptions to the institutional scope of the Service Act, and there are basically no major exceptions, either, because regulators are not excluded as such. The regulators' officials will fall under the law of service. Except in the cases referred to in Section 2 of the draft law, they are excluded from the scope of the Staff Law of the head of such regulators, whether individual or collective. If Mr Fiala here spoke of the TA Czech Republic, he overlooked that the TA Czech Presidency is not excluded from the scope of the Service Act, there is only an amendment in this sense. But even if it were there, provided that the President is part of the Bureau, he does not need to be specifically removed, because from a legislative technical point of view, all members of the Board of the TA CR are excluded. But that's just to the edge. [[15.20 hours]] As far as the mention or question of Mr. Černoch's mischief is concerned, I insist that the law is of good quality. Quality from a legislative technical point of view. As I said, legislative support was highly above-standard compared to almost any other government bill. Eight legislators from the Office of the Government, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior participated in this work, i.e. the relevant ministries for the various areas included in the draft law. The debate may be about factual correctness, not about legislative technicality. And, of course, logically, they can and are very different opinions, as the debate has already shown. But that's not a question of legislative tech crap. On this page, I insist on the quality of the proposal. And as far as the matter is concerned, I think it's a solid compromise, as I've said here about twice today. Yes, a compromise, but a solid compromise, which can aim to achieve the objectives set out there. With regard to the conditions of the European Union in relation to the drawing of funds and to efficiency, I feel that this is like talking into oak. I have clearly quoted here from the European Commission's request for the wording of the Partnership Agreement, which clearly states that the European Commission is demanding for us an obligation to be effective on 1 January 2015, and it is clearly stated that this will be the fulfilment of our obligations in relation to the Service Act, including the deadline, when approving operational programmes from the European Structural and Investment Funds. If the representatives of the ODS and the TOP zero don't want to hear this and they keep saying that nothing like this has been documented, then of course the debate doesn't make much sense. But I can say that neither I nor the government will certainly take the risk of acting in a way that would jeopardise the drawing of more than 500 billion crowns from European funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u55	Thank you, Minister. Now I have a shrink of factual remarks. First of all, the President of the ODS, Mr Petr Fiala, followed by Mr Benda, followed by Mr Černoch. Then the priority rights of Mr Stanjura and President Okamura. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I could respond to the full untruths and misunderstands that Minister Dienstbier has shown here when it comes to the Technological Agency, but I'll pass. You know I don't like strong words and strong words. A moment ago, somebody called Minister Dienstbier a liar. I would never dare, and I don't think he's a liar, but what I think is that he's lost a complete sense of reality and his ability to really perceive reality. If here he claims to have offered, or someone from the government offered to negotiate with the opposition, he offered to negotiate with the Civil Democratic Party, then I simply say that none of this has happened. I understand that Minister Dienstbier is confusing the opposition. He probably considers the YES movement to be a opposition, which I understand when we look at, for example, how the government deals with the choice of the European Commissioner. And I assume that you have actually discussed the service law with the YES movement - but this is not the Civil Democratic Party. I even assume with Minister Dienstbier that he also considers part of social democracy to be opposition. I understand that, too, and I understand you, but I would just ask you, Minister, not to confuse the citizens and me with the ANO movement or the members of the Czech Social Democratic Party. There were no negotiations with us, and none were offered to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u57	I thank Mr Fial. Another factual point - Mr Marek Benda, followed by Mr Černoch. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u58	Thank you. Just one short gloss to the Minister without a job, as we've learned to say here. Although we can see he's pretending he's got a lot of work to do. You're wrong about the Technological Agency. It is, of course, already in the proposal that was made here. But that's just glossa. I wanted to respond to the so-called act that's still being said here. I've known this House for quite a while, quite well. I know what it means to deal with the opposition. I know what it means to deal with the opposition, even if I'm in opposition. I know how drafts of laws are discussed. I know that when someone asks me for opinions and is ready to talk to me about them, it's now, for example, in the Rules of Procedure, a law on the intercourse of both chambers and others... If the working breakfast of the Constitutional Legal Committee, where it was first said that it would actually tell us how the law would be discussed, and that they would tell us at what moments the coalition would agree and present us with relevant amendments, if you consider this to be a serious deal with the opposition, I tell you, Minister, without a job, that you are really wrong. This is not a meeting with the opposition. I really stopped coming to breakfast because it seemed completely pointless to see just a schedule that I would learn from the chairman of my committee anyway. The negotiation is that we define some boundaries. Next, there were endless seminars where you tried to interpret, in particular, the various civil servants, that it would not be so terrible for them, even if they were appalled. But that was as much as possible. Whenever I said any comment from the fact that the law is unconstitutional only in the manner of submission, you wrote it down, but you didn't do anything with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u59	I thank Mr Benda. With another point of fact, Mr Černoch, President Stanjura, followed by Mr Okamura with priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u60	Thank you for the floor. I just want to ask. It was said here that this bill is absolutely legislatively sound. If you look at the explanatory memorandum and there's no financial impact on the state budget, it doesn't feel completely right. That impact was due in June. It's mid-July, and it's still not. And when it comes to billions of crowns, I don't think that's quite right. Another thing that I think is wrong, too, is that some legislators say that the proposal is unconstitutional because of who is supposed to be in it, who is not supposed to be in it when the Constitution states it. So that's another point. And I think there's a lot more of these points, and I don't quite think that there's any negotiations going on, that there's a working committee, like there were other proposals, because that round table has been sitting there several times. Here came a few invitations to the seminar, there was an invitation for breakfast and, of course, the constitutional law committee, but otherwise I don't know anything about any kind of service law. Sorry about that, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u61	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr Stanjura, President of the Civic Democratic Party MEP. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u62	Thank you for the floor. Before I proceed to what I have prepared for part one of the proposed law, the minister apparently said that officials would imagine even greater benefits. So try telling all other employees what the proposed benefit or procedure is if a civil servant loses his job in terms of efficiency gains. You know how it is in companies. Someone gets one month, someone gets two months, someone gets three months - okay. Somewhere where they have strong unions and have better collective agreements, they get six or nine salaries. Here for 12 months, the person will be at home and will take at least 50 percent of his salary if he has dependants, such as a wife and two children, for every 10 percent. So 12 months is going to take 80 percent of the salary, and if there's no place in the civil service after that, and if that person has been in the service for nine years, and we don't imagine anyone who's 55, 58, he's just retired for example, we can think about a school graduate who joined the office at 25, and in 43 cancels his job because of efficiency, then gets a severance grant - I don't know why you call it sales, you introduce a new name - twelve months. Who of the regular employees in all the other companies has 12 months to 80 percent of their salary and then, when there are nine years, another 12 months of severance pay? And that's what you call small benefits? But it's not one in the head, or part one in the head. I told you it was a shame they didn't deal with us. I'm glad the translator's deputy is here. I have specific, really specific questions about him because there is no explanatory statement. So at the beginning of part one, I'm gonna ask some questions after the paragraph, and I believe I'm gonna get qualified answers. I note that these are not amendments, but only questions. [[15.30 hours]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 (c) is defined de facto by two types of Deputy Minister, a member of the Government. Question: "Why do we have two kinds of deputys?" What will the deputy so-called? a political one who's not allowed to run anything under that law? I'm giving myself a probable answer that I can't believe he's only going to have two tasks: watch the minister and report to the president of his own coalition party about what the minister is doing. That's all he can do. Yesterday I heard an argument that he would go to the government or the House instead of the minister. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Deputys can't come here to the House. They can go to committees instead of ministers if the committee admits it. When ministers go to the government, of course, they can, but they can't vote on the government. I think it's the Minister's duty to go to the government, to go to the House. Of course, we understand many diplomatic, foreign policy obligations. I think it's perfectly understandable, if the Prime Minister is in Brussels today, none of us would criticize him for not being at the House meeting for a second. But how often does this happen? And what are the Deputys gonna do? It's probably based on distrust between coalition partners. Article 2 (2) (a) 1 (j) states that this law does not apply to employees who perform only auxiliary, service or manual work, etc. Question number two to the petitioner: How will service work be defined? Are you aware that, for example, in the area of information technology, both hardware and the software of these information systems are essential parts of the service? And that it's a highly qualified job? Meaning, service technicians who will provide hardware and software service will be out of service law? Meaning, somewhere it's a union, somewhere it's a department, information technology will be removed from this law? I beg your answer, yes or no. Article 5 (1) (a) The service shall include the preparation of draft legislation and the provision of legal activities. I'm missing the definition of what legal activity means, whether it's the preparation of contractual relationships, the control of contractual relationships, or whatever it all means. I think it should be very clear. That was question number three. Article 5 (1) (a) The service shall include the preparation of international agreements and regulations of the European Union or other international organisation. Here I believe that there has been a mistake, it would certainly be a good amendment to supplement the "international organisations whose member is the Czech Republic". Otherwise, I don't think the public service should do this to deal with something where it is not a member of the Czech Republic. I am the original professional programmer, so I was interested in § 5 para. The service shall include the creation and management of public administration information systems under another law, with the exception of operational information systems. I have two questions about that, and it's really not an easy thing to do. Who will and how will define what an operating information system is? Am I supposed to understand economic systems, personnel systems, payroll systems, or what we're supposed to understand under this? Question number six: What does the creation of information systems mean? I understand that the civil servants will program and create the software? This is quite inefficient because it will be very costly. But if so, I don't think programmers should be civil servants. Programmers are people who are creative and should not fall under the Civil Service Act. And certainly, if programmers are to create complicated software, they don't fit into the tables that are designed. So if that's the case, it's just a theory, but the practice will be different. Article 5 (1) (a) 1 point (i) - State defence security. I would like an explanation of the context of this paragraph and the letter with § 2 para. 2. The same applies to point (j) of Section 5. Again, please explain whether this is not against what is mentioned in Section 2 (2) (a) above. 2. In addition to Paragraph 5 (2) the Government provides for a regulation on the field of service. I want to ask, "When?" Whether there is already a working version of this government regulation and whether we can get such a version to be consulted or consulted or discussed. That was question number nine. Question number ten is for Section 6 - civil servant. Here is the introduction of a new term "presented" or superior if it's a lady. I want to ask you why we're introducing this when the labour code normally uses the "leading employee." It's a thing that everyone understands, that everyone understands. Suddenly we create a completely different concept. Basically, he's a senior employee. I don't know why we have a superior when there's a senior employee in other laws. Article 7 (1) (a) (ii) 2 - the service designation of a civil servant. If this law weren't so serious, it'd be ridiculous. The High Minister's Council, the Ministerial Council, the Government Council, the Supreme Government Council. So my humble question: how are we going to deviate if a lady takes the position? What's this function going to be called? I think it's completely unnecessary, funny. Mrs. Rada? The council? That's what I think we could forgive each other for. Section 7 (b) 4 when it is ruled out by a method which is not considered to be a university education. But exclusion from this is "unless of education acquired by a study at the State Institute of International Relations in Moscow." Moscow, Soviet, communist school. We're giving all the graduates the green light here and priori. It's completely unnecessary. I think it will be good - and I would like to know what the opinion of the petitioners is - to throw it away because this possibility is brought by law in another paragraph. In Article 198 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions apply: 1 is granted the possibility for employees who have long proven themselves in the civil service to forgive the required education. I think it's the right approach. We do not have to rule out all of the graduates of the Soviet Communist School on a flat-rate basis, if it really turns out that some of them are necessary for the civil service and have proved it in the long term, so in another section this law allows this exception to be granted. I'm a little nervous, sir, that neither the petitioners nor the rapporteur sit here again. [[The chairs at the news table are empty.]] It's very unusual. [[A Member of the Sklenák runs to the rapporteur's table with a remark that was not understood.]] There are six of you, Mr. Chairman, who are not the only one. If only there was a newsletter. You can take turns, and you don't have to get upset. The law doesn't... The chairman says that if he has to sit where the government has to sit...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u63	I'll ask the gentlemen of the House not to grovel at each other. And if so, through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u64	Yes. Mr Vice-President, I would ask that I or my colleague do not have to do this to ensure that there is always someone sitting at that table. It also seems humiliating to me that I have to do it myself. [[Rush in the hall.]] Question - and those questions are because there is no reason message. If the explanatory note were attached, we may have explained many things and saved ourselves time. In Article 9, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 cancel or rename certified function "Chief Director." The Chief Executive is something we all know, which has a clear meaning, a clear position in the office. And even that office completely understands the position of deputy and chief executive. She knows the difference. And here it is suggested to cancel the function, virtually. Renaming "Secretary for Section Control'. So I would ask, first of all, why and secondly, what is the idea of how many such Deputys - former or existing senior directors - will actually be on those ministries, and whether it is some devaluation or excessive multiplication of those Deputys. [[15.40 hours]] In Section 11, respectively. § 12, is quite an interesting diction. The provisions of the Staff Regulations shall not impose obligations beyond the limits of the law. In other words, in the law, we say that the law must be followed. I agree with that, but I find it ridiculous to put it there. This could be written in every law that it is necessary to observe this law and other laws. I consider it a completely useless paragraph. If the petitioners don't share my opinion, I'd like to explain why this paragraph has to be there. Paragraph 13, which relates to the Directorate-General, is in the letter. (b) written: The Directorate-General prepares proposals for legislation relating to the service, with the exception of proposals for legislation on remuneration. I would like to ask, because it is a general wording, an example, like three, typologically, which regulations it would create, what it would actually concern. In Article 13, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 says: The head of the Directorate-General is the Director-General, who has the position of Deputy Head of the Section. So now I'm completely lost, and I've lost my logic. We've got the pyramid, there's the CEO upstairs, and here he is in the position of deputy director of the section, who is subordinate to the State Secretary, who is subordinate to the Director General. I'm missing the logic here, and I don't understand why the Director General is the head of the section. I really don't understand. That's what I need to explain. In Article 13, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (e) it is written - and this is very important - that the CEO, I paraphrase it a little bit, must protect the employee who makes some announcements to his superior. The government coalition pretends to be serious and that this is a very good thing. At the last meeting, we discussed the appeal of former Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Válková Štern. Many, especially coalition, but also opposition, I admit, Members said - he deserved the appeal because he took the liberty of making an announcement to his minister. And I agree with that opinion. But I want to ask you how it is in accordance with this proposed law. If that's how the law was passed, it means you can't release a clerk like that. And you can get upset here a hundred times that it's not loyal, it's made up, it doesn't do work. On the contrary, a super official will have a duty under the law to protect this person. So choose, he can't pay both. Either what many of us and many of you demonstrated at the last House meeting or what is in this bill applies. Both together cannot pay, virtually. He can and will make decisions - if it's comfortable for the Minister, I'll protect him, and if it's uncomfortable for the Minister, we'll throw him out. But this isn't the right approach. Section 13, par. 5 says that the Director-General and the staff authorised by him may carry out checks on all service offices. And I want to ask who the CEO is gonna be checking on. All of them? And what does it mean to control service relationships? It says it's a service relationship check. Does this mean, for example, when the employees of the Ministry of Education complained about Minister Chládek's harsh treatment of them, that the CEO and his people would come in with a control plan, with a check paper, and start checking on service relations? Well, according to this bill, yes. See for yourself if that's reasonable. That doesn't have to concern the Minister. This may concern any senior employee, respectively. any presented in the diction of this law against which a complaint is lodged by a subordinate, and the Director-General will come for inspection. It's about 65,000 employees. Consider this reasonable. If it stays that way, it'll only be on paper, it can't really be done. Especially the service relationships. What is the control of service relationships? I still understand when they control the way financial control goes, something we know from cities and towns. We understand what he's controlling. But service relations, which is very often the name for interpersonal relationships in the workplace, I don't know how the CEO or his people will control. Paragraph 15 of the State Secretary, para. 4. Quite a joke paragraph, which says: In matters relating to changes in service pursuant to Section 45 (b). (f) and termination of service shall be carried out by the Secretary of State at the Ministry after consultation with the Minister. It's a little different at the government's office. What does that mean to discuss with the Minister? In order for this to be relevant, there must be a written record of it. I think if someone comes into the office, they'll peek into the minister's office and say, "I've changed three department heads," that it's probably not a discussion, even if it's content. That means there should be an official record. It should be there: On 15 July at 15.45 the Secretary of State came to the Minister's office and discussed with him the appeal of three heads of department. The Minister has given his consent to this procedure or, on the contrary, the Minister has expressed his disagreement, or the third option - the Minister said: I don't care, do as you consider necessary. What are we gonna do with the paper? I understand they're everywhere, if you'll notice, employee files. So I understand that one copy is to be filed on a staff member's file. But I think for the minister to have it black and white, that someone had a discussion with him, and the Secretary of State, so it has to be put in some file called the Minister. And that's where the paperwork will be piled up, who discussed it with him, what data, who was involved. For example, God forbid that there will be an increase in efficiency and a reduction in the number of posts in the office. That's gonna be a hearing, that's gonna be a document in the secretary's file! In Section 17, which relates to systemization, it is written in paragraph 1. 4: If the systematicisation is not approved by 31 December, the current systematicisation shall apply for the following calendar year. We believe that the term is not chosen happily. If the systematic implementation is to be implemented, it would be much more practical to have it either on 31 October or on 30 November. If it is or is not 30 December, it is difficult for the Secretary of State or other Head of Administration to ensure implementation from 2 January. And then there's this interesting relatively inconspicuous paragraph in Section 17 - paragraph. 5 which says: Staff posts and funds for the salaries of civil servants according to approved systematicisation may not be used for purposes other than those provided for. That's the end of savings. If I once approve the wage budget of employees and accidentally save something, according to the Act § 17 para. 5 must not be used for any other purpose. Quite advantageous for those who draw the funds, very disadvantageous for ministers, members of the government, is one that the government, after which very often savings will be required, will be required, how managerially they managed, where they saved and how they could use any operating money, which is certainly also wage money, for investment or reconstruction or repair of property. So I want to ask why the petitioners say that the funds saved can't be used for another purpose. In Section 19, which relates to the organisational structure of the Service Office, in the letter. one is that if a draft organisational structure is submitted, the Director-General shall decide within 30 days. We want to ask why 30 days, why so long. Wouldn't it be better if it took 20 days? And it's just an organizational change game anyway. Notice what it says -- if the CEO doesn't decide -- which he certainly won't want to argue with those ministers, he'll put it to the government to decide. It doesn't bother me at all, we're just showing how useless the Directorate General's office is, how useless the CEO is. [[15.50 hours]] Section 19 (2) (a) 2 is written so vaguely that I did not understand him at all, so I would like an explanation of this paragraph. I'll read it for you. "If, as a result of the approval or amendment of the organisational structure, there is no termination of service or removal from the post of service of the superior, the organisational structure or amendment shall be approved by the Secretary of State or by the official authority of the superior service office and, if the superior is not the office of service, by the Head of Service.' I wonder which one of the translators could explain to me what the author meant by that. I really don't understand semantically at all. And once again, there's no explanatory note. Maybe it's quite simple, maybe many of you understand, I really don't get it. And in order for the debate to be meaningful, in my first speech, I asked questions only about part one. It's 22 questions, I expect specific relatively brief clear answers. In the next of my performances, I'm going to do the next part. I think it would be incorrect, there were already quite a lot of questions, it would be incorrect to read 80, 90 or 100 here at once. It's only part one. Thank you for your attention and thank you in advance, even though the rapporteur is not sitting here. The Minister is in my way, but he's not a rapporteur, but he's one of the petitioners. [[Inventor]] I remember them, of course, so I believe you'll answer some of those questions. You keep saying you want to deal with the opposition, so now we don't want to act, now we just want to answer the confusion because... I must commend Minister Chovanec because he, as the petitioner, wrote a 12-page bill, and it was a rather comprehensive and explanatory explanatory explanatory report. It's perfectly all right. Then, unfortunately, came the amendment, which has 83 pages and zero words in the explanatory memorandum. So I apologize to all those who, it's clear to everyone who prepared the explanatory report or read it, if you gave it to us, maybe I'd ask not 22 questions about Part 1, but maybe just two or three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u65	I thank the President, the Mayor, Stanjur for his comprehensive introduction to Chapter 1 of the Law. With another application with priority rights, President Okamura is registered. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, after all, to what Minister Dienstbier has said and said since yesterday, because in me indeed, I have been here for some eight months, and this raises a number of questions about this minister's work and the work and the costs that we are spending here on the special role of the Minister. 'Cause I'd like to remember the service bill line. Together, I'd like to remember her. This means that this government was actually created on the basis of the presentation of the Service Act by first reading, and there we read in the Government Legislative Council's opinion that the proposal was unconstitutional, against the Civil Code and other matters. I've talked about this in the past. So here I heard arguments in the galleys that it was prepared by some, that they were the positions of some previous legislative council or something, that it was some sort of parliamentary proposal and so on. So I thought, after half a year of the legislative department's work, perhaps here Minister Dienstbier, Minister for Legislation, an expert who, in his own right, says that he is an expert and, as he knows it, so that there will be a proposal that will be perfect, especially if that is the proposal on which this government is actually built. Well, when I remember what was going on here during that six months, actually, the work of this government minister, who is in charge of legislation, he refreshed us with his other proposals. For example, he proposed positive discrimination against the Romani minority here, when he suggested that CZK 60,000 would be given to Romani students. I'm asking how we're going to distinguish them with these requests. There's probably going to be blood or I don't know what's going on here, but we've already thought of Hitler here, so these unconstitutional and ugly suggestions that the minister is making here, really... But that's not what I want to talk about right now. That was one suggestion. Then he brought us the right to vote for foreigners. I have no idea why foreign nationals are being dealt with here. Then we read from the media that perhaps he is planning the debt of socially earmarked fellow citizens. Well, during this six-monthly annabasis, the service law was finally released for second reading. And indeed, I was looking at the Events yesterday, the comments and there Minister Dienstbier commented on this government proposal that it was a relatively solid proposal. That's what we all heard. So, first of all, I need to explain, because I am not a lawyer or an expert, perhaps what difference is needed between a counter-constitutional proposal and against the Civil Code and a relatively solid proposal, so that we can actually get to know the galimatyas of the proposals, which is therefore more quality, which is more pasquil, which is smaller pasculi. But for me as a legal layman, the conclusion is the only one. I only know two types of laws. And that's what I'd like to ask it to be like this, whether it's government or not. Either it's the perfect law, or it's the prick and the bastard. I only know two types. So I would really like to ask you again, because we need the service law, the debate is going to be dragged out here, and I would like to conclude that we would, if possible, complete this law, because it will be difficult for us to complete it in plenary. I'm glad to hear there's a work committee here. I welcome the fact that the opposition, which I have the latest information, should be involved, and that we could take a look at this together. This comedy that just happens here, which is really badly played. I think that from what we hear here, even in the government coalition, there are already contradictions. People can't even agree on what's going on in there anymore. That is what we have heard here, that even government MPs are surprised by the arguments that the President of Kalousek, for example, said here. They have to check them out, too, because the information wasn't here. So I would like us to actually give such a serious law in perfect form. And once again, I stress when I suspect the Minister of Human Rights, Minorities, or legislation itself says that it is a relatively solid proposal, so that it is a perfect proposal. And that is what I would like to ask in a nutshell, and I am just saying that this has been going on for a little while, and I would like to have the law perfect as quickly as possible and move on to other problems for the citizens of the Czech Republic that we would be dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u67	Thank you to President Stanjur, and I do not see anyone with priority rights, so I will ask in duly registered. [[Not Stanjura, but Okamura!]] Sorry, I'm confusing the mayor, Stanjura and Okamura after three hours of driving - I'm sorry. So it was Mr Okamura. I apologize to Mr Stanjur. Mr Klán, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u68	Good day, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me make a few factual remarks here first from the general plane, then from the detailed plane to the service law, which we will discuss here now at second reading and perhaps next week or at some other time at the third reading. The KSČM Members' Club sees the adoption of the Service Act as of course very necessary, in order to improve the state administration and especially at ministries and other central bodies of the state administration, there are no major changes in the change of political representation always during elections to the Chamber of Deputies. However, in our view, the present service law will not solve this problem, but, on the contrary, it will close the state administration for at least two years for a transitional period. In our view, it would be much easier if the 2002 service law had started to apply and only adapted on the basis of changes to the legislation until now. Now, however, it will not harm a little history of negotiating service laws in the Czech Republic. [[16.00 hours]] Since November 1989, when the flag of that day took place, several proposals have been made for the Service Act. However, we must start by dividing the Czechoslovak Federal Republic and writing the Constitution of the Czech Republic in 1992. That's when we made a clear commitment, and it says in the Constitution that we will ensure a functioning government. However, this has not happened in 22 years. It is precisely that this did not happen that it allowed, especially in the 1990s, theft of state property at a time of wild privatization. This fact, and indisputable fact, goes to the hands of the then governments, headed by the Civil Democratic Party. It follows that the political elites had no interest in creating a functioning government at the time. They essentially created it, but only for themselves, if I take it that way, but not for the citizens. Only at the beginning of the new millennium, when the opposition treaty, our social democracy, began to rule here since 1998, and when negotiating the conditions of accession to the EU, it was considered that the government would start to function properly in some way. To date, social democracy is beating itself into the breasts that it was she who created the first Civil Service Act in 2002. This was mainly due to the accession agreement and to the EU, which we joined in 2004, not looking through our fingers. So social democracy boasts that it has created the first law of service to date. Yes, it's true indeed. She made it. She can't be denied that. He's right, then. It is a rather extensive material, it is also quite high quality, but it was the social democracy, which first postponed the effectiveness of this service law, and later followed by right-wing governments, the last time the government of Petr Nečas. Of course, I do not include the government of official Jan Fischer and later Jiří Rusnok, which I will, of course, return to in my performance. If we move over time, the efficiency is postponed to 1. 1. 2015. It was the last two governments, first the government of Petr Nečas and then the administrative government, which was nominated by President Miloš Zeman, that prepared their versions of the service law. The government of Petr Nečas prepared a bravado paskvil, so-called. The Act on Officials of the State Administration, which had the only good thing that could have been there, was an elaborate analysis of the effects of regulations and the final external commentary procedure, which, of course, this service law did not have properly in January and the comprehensive amendment did not have it at all. When we look at it that way, there were all kinds of negatives in the Civil Democratic Party's proposal. Inspiration was then in the private sector and in the case of foreign neoliberal governments that ruled in Europe at that time. Inspiration lay mainly in the UK and in order to limit the state to even more, and the government got better or more liberalized and put itself in the private sector. That would lead to the destruction of the state administration. So until then, we haven't moved at all, and of course the government hasn't worked. The plans of this bill were ruined by the petitioner herself, then Vice Prime Minister Karolína Peake of Public Affairs and later by LID. She ruined it simply by always having it remodeled and finally got to us on the table in July, in August of last year and finally, The Chamber of Deputies itself decided to dissolve, so this bill was not discussed at all. After the early elections to the Chamber of Deputies, nobody seemed to care about the issue of service conditions in the state administration except for President Miloš Zeman, who apparently had it as an ace up his sleeve for the emerging government coalition. At the end of last year, he said to the emerging coalition that he was not appointed by Andrej Babiš as Minister of Finance unless the draft service law was discussed at least in the first reading. The emerging coalition seems to have been properly terrified, so it started preparing quickly, I do not want to say a piece of paper, but a certain concept of service law so that it could be discussed at an extraordinary meeting in January of this year, which of course happened. I think it was several pages in which nothing was written, and we were already informed that when it passed through the first reading, the government would, of course, prepare a comprehensive amendment. On the proposal that we discussed here in January, the final government of Jiří Rusnok decided, of course, to give a negative opinion. She came into all this by herself when she prepared her draft service law and sent it into the legislative process, so we already have a number of service laws here. This law, submitted by the official government of Jiří Rusnok, was then withdrawn from the discussion of the current government coalition on the grounds that their proposal would, of course, be better. If I go back to the service bill that Rusnokův's government passed here, I say that it was quite well worked out and to a large extent just reflected the 2002 law and only there did the amendment in amending the laws until now. At the same time he also expected various benefits for officials, he had completed an inter-resort commentary procedure, a complete analysis of the effects of regulation, so-called. RIA, and many other things that are missing from the current comprehensive amendment. However, the emerging government, as I have already said, has withdrawn this proposal from the hearing. I already think that there was a mistake here because the law was really worked out and we could build on it - instead, to overtake here, which service law is better and which is not. Instead of the law of Jiří Rusnok's government being negotiated here, it was created so-called. The shadow of Lex Babiš, with whom the right-wing TOP 09 came, and the government coalition of course still terrifies this Lex Babiš until today. The government coalition has decided to create a comprehensive amendment to the parliamentary proposal. We could call this a fairy tale about the birth of pasculi No. 2, if we take that pasqvil No. 1 was, of course, a proposal from the then Civil Democratic Party workshop. Of course, the right-wing opposition is now beginning to enter into all this again, when it has its complaints and the law will not let it go into the final reading, or it will block the third reading so that the law that we are discussing here does not begin to apply from 1. 1. 2015. When creating a comprehensive amendment, we held various seminars, breakfasts, séances, and we called on different spirits from the European Union, the European Union and no one else, and the other one, it was really fun sometimes. When we had a night meeting on the Public Administration Committee, we discussed the bill at 10:00 p.m., so it was a really typical séance, such a beautiful night, and I loved it when I told the Minister that it was really interesting to discuss the important law at night. I'm sure you'll give me the truth that these things, the various séances, can't replace proper commentary proceedings or RIA, because only the government and the relevant ministries have gone through all the legislation. MEPs can't do this on their own, the legislation is really extensive, the cortex of this material, which has an impact on the state administration and is supposed to work for many decades in advance. But the coalition MPs seem to have made it, and we have been presented with a comprehensive amendment as well as a amendment law on the table, which is item number seven. [[16.10 hours]] So the cards are out and we can start playing, ladies and gentlemen. It will probably be an interesting game, especially at third reading, if we vote on various amendments there. This game, as I have already said, began with President Miloš Zeman and his condition, which was fulfilled just in January of this year when we discussed this bill here in the first reading. The coalition claims that if we don't accept the law and it doesn't start paying from 1. 1. 2015, so the European Union -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u69	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm going to ask my colleagues to keep their voices down, because even in such a small number, they are very distracted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u70	Thank you for the peace of mind. If this law doesn't start to apply from 1. 1. 2015, so the European Union will prevent us from drawing subsidies - and this is a slightly false statement. Then why fake? This is a mystification, because if the law had not been approved as we are going to discuss it here now, then the 2002 law, which has just postponed its effectiveness, as I said before, would apply until the beginning of next year. When we look at the other players who play this game with us, it is precisely the European Commission and its leaders who have decided to comment on the comprehensive amendment, and it has already happened. We are the only state from all over the European Union that does not fully have a service law. The 2002 Law started to apply in part, but it never started to apply to the central authorities of the state administration. I'm asking why. If I was inspired by the book of Bernard Lewis What happened to the mistake?, as I said before, started in 1992 and later in 2002. The answer is obvious, and I'm sure you'll all answer your own questions. Neither the social democratic governments nor the civil democratic governments were able to accept it because they could not impose their friends on the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration. That's an indisputable fact, and no one's gonna erase that. That is why the public is pissed off at the time, even recently, especially with the coalition MPs from the previous government coalition, to corruption. This should really prevent the law of service. However, as we are discussing here now, I fear that it will not completely limit it. All I welcome in it is the ceiling on the amount of remuneration and the cancellation of contractual salaries. Indeed, this is a matter that had to be done, because otherwise there would still be outrageous rewards, which would point to the fact that, for example, the day has 25 hours, as we have already convinced ourselves several times, when civil democrats were still with the government, especially then or now, it is now the current wife of Petr Nečas, when she received really great rewards and corruption. We only welcome the ceiling on the amount of rewards. That would be a general point of view. However, I will now move on to factual comments and present to you my amendments. I am only by your means to my colleague Chvojka - not to go crazy. I'm not really crazy. I'm gonna talk constructively here, and I'm not playing any obstructions, I'm just gonna say material comments here, and I think my colleague Chvojka is gonna put up with it, and he's gonna hang on. As I have already indicated, the very speed of discussion of such an important material goes beyond the political sustainability of this bill in the next elections to the Chamber of Deputies. Inability to communicate properly with the opposition will necessarily lead to an amendment, probably in the next year when we will know how many mistakes there are. In addition, an unfinished remuneration system, an indication of how many officials the law will apply precisely, and an indefinite financial intensity does not bode well. On top of that, a number of employees who begin to fall under this law will be even worse off than if it were to fall under the Labour Code. The various exceptions given in the law are only the way to hell. If you allow exceptions, there will be chaos and basically everyone will want them in their essence in a moment. What good is a service law if there are so many exceptions? It is understandable that the law cannot apply to elected functions, I understand that, nor do I object to it, but I have one complaint about why it should not apply, for example. to the National Security Office, which is one of the central authorities of the state administration, and if the law of service is to apply to all central authorities of the state administration, i.e. ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, the law of service should also apply to the National Security Office. Because who's he doing the service for? It's for the state. And the output is a service for the state. It should therefore fall under the service law. Now, here's the thing. 2 in Section 2, I see it as unfounded for the following reasons. First of all, it is in contradiction with Section 5, which lists services and services. If the protection of personal data is defined as a service, the font. (h), State defence provision (i.e. (i) and ensuring the internal order and security of the letter. (j) thus cannot be the institutions referred to in Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2 excluded from the Civil Service Act. The output of these institutions is a service for the State, and the State is also asking for them. As I said, I personally see the highest dispute in the National Security Bureau. This office is led as the central body of the state administration in the law of competence. Exactly is defined in so-called the jurisdictional law in Part 1. Article 2 (2) (a) 1. In the Czech Republic, the following other central authorities operate: number 9 - National Security Authority. For this reason, the NBU is contrary to the requirement of exemption from the Service Act. If the service law is to apply to central government bodies, as I have already said, it must logically also apply to the National Security Office. I would understand that it would not, for example, apply to the President of this office when it comes to elected office. As regards security forces, military police, Military Intelligence, General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, these institutions are in conflict with Section 5, in particular with the Scriptures. (j) - ensuring internal order and security. I understand that they are subject to the law on security forces, that is undeniable, but in that case, we should also adjust these fields of service in a certain way. I will now return to the European Union. If the European Union, respectively. The European Commission demands that all central government bodies fall under the service law; it must really include all central government bodies. Don't grant any exceptions. The fact that there are exceptions, especially in certain heads of individual institutions, whether it be the CZSO, the ÚOHS and others, we can discuss here the State Office for Nuclear Safety, if the current head of the State Office for Nuclear Safety were to be removed from this law, it would simply not fall under it, but the employees of this office would fall under it. I can imagine that because it is a certain independent regulator, like the Czech Statistical Office. Basically, I would say that I didn't forget anything in my complaint, but I'm still taking the liberty of making a statement. I have dealt with government experts, especially experts at Charles University, many times, and they have clearly told me: do not allow any exceptions. If we allow them, and especially if the law does not apply to the central authorities of the state administration, it will once again lead to chaos, a pasquil will eventually lead to an even greater destruction of the state administration than it currently is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u71	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone of another duly logged in, Mr. Daniel Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u72	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to present my amendment to you and explain the reasons why I am giving it to you. It concerns Section 7, that is to say, to know what we are talking about, the comprehensive amendment, which is in paragraph 1. 4 defines universities, respectively. Types of higher education institutions whose discharge is not to be recognised as a qualification prerequisite for higher education for higher positions in the civil service. [[16.20 hours]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 I join the Faculty of State Security and the Faculty of State Border Protection, i.e. 1st and 3rd Faculty of the University of National Security. I would like to inform you of the reasons which lead me to this amendment. In the present press it is therefore proposed that the recognition of higher education for the needs of the state service be excluded from the education completed at the universities of the political former totalitarian Czechoslovak Socialist Republic as well as at the higher political and security schools in the former Soviet Union. The attentive reader of that paragraph certainly noted that in the case of the Soviet Union it is political and security schools, while in the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic it is only political schools. I believe that this difference is incorrect and unwarranted. Even in the case of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, there was a school that provided a rigorous university education in the field of security, which was closely linked to communist totalitarian power, so that not only is it not applicable in the state institutions of the democratic rule of law, but its application could harm these institutions, or possibly. even endanger them. The school was the College of National Security and, without a doubt, the two faculties which I appointed, the Faculty of State Security and the Faculty of State Border Protection, which are included in my proposal. I'll describe the activities of these faculties. The College of National Security was established after the Soviet occupation at the time of the so-called "National Security Corps." standardisation as an expression of the need to expand the repressive standardisation apparatus. I quote from the Constitutional Court's resolution: "The Acting Measures of the Federal Assembly No.107/1973 Coll., on the establishment of the University of National Security College, became an expression of others, respectively. other value and content claims on workers in the Ministry of the Interior resort than those that could have been implemented by a proper global and universal legal study.' The end of the quotation of the Constitutional Court, which he said in his decision 225/1995 Coll., when he reasons why graduates of this school cannot be entered on the list of legal associates, even if they obtained their title iuris utrusque doctor, JUDr, subsequently at the proper law school. Three faculties were established at the University of National Security from the beginning: Faculty of State Security, Faculty of Public Security - second, Faculty of State Border Protection - third, and as the fourth one was later joined by the Faculty of Investigation in Bratislava. It is evident that, in particular, the first and third faculties, which served completely and practically exclusively to the needs of members of the Communist State Security, did not provide education that could and should be used in the civil service of the democratic rule of law. What education these faculties provided and what students of these faculties were dealing with, we can probably look at the most easily from the topics of their final diploma thesis. For example, I mention some of the names of work from the 1980s, i.e. that they are graduates of the age when still and still for many years could theoretically apply for duties in the civil service: Author Benýšek, P: The procedure and measures of the authorities of StB in counter-intelligence protection of cultural policy KSČ. Čikoš, J: System of measures and tasks of the StB body in counter-intelligence protection of mass media focusing on Czechoslovak Radio and television. Chvosta, J: Agency operational work of students of StB between interns and scholarships leaving the Czechoslovak Republic for non-socialist states. Chyška, P: Possibility and ways of using the position and social agency in cultural centres of capitalist representative offices focusing on the cultural centre of the British Embassy in Prague. Kosová, .: The fight of the organs of the StB with antisocialist tendencies in the Czech Brethren Evangelical Church. Kubal, M: Tactics and tasks of the authorities of StB in preventing the activities of parallel structures in the field of culture. Krištál, M: The contribution of the institutions of StB to preventing hostile activity in the Czech Brethren Church of the Evangelical Church and its abuse by political and church opposition in the Czechoslovak Republic as well as by foreign opponents. Radikovský, Z.: The fight of the organs of the StB with antisocialist tendencies in the Czech Brethren Church of the Evangelical Church Seniorate Poděbrady. Šmarda, B: The fight of the authorities of StB with antisocialist tendencies manifesting at Protestant religious faculties. Tuček, K.: The process of building and forming an influence agency to work in Protestant churches. To make it clear what such work looked like, let us take a closer look at two. The first is the work of a member of StB Josef Kulesa, who deals with the activities of antisocialist elements and idealized centres in universities in the North Bohemia Region. The paper describes the situation in detail at three universities and at two language preparations for foreign students. The number of excluded and excluded members of the KSČ is discussed between teachers, their activities, and their attachment to the agency as well as the activities and methods of the work of the StB agency among the students themselves. One important knowledge to which the work is growing is the need for coordination and cooperation of individual components of StB. As a model, there is an example of such cooperation, where Military Counterintelligence in Žatec wanted to carry out an illegal tour of the former officer's apartment, fired after 1968 from the army as well as from the KSČ. But he was supposed to be well secured, and he wasn't giving the keys out of his hand, so counterintelligence couldn't get in. She therefore made contact with the managing officer of the StB Agency at the University of Machinery and Textiles in Liberec, where his son studied. Agents found out which restaurant the student and friends go to to play cards in the company and where he keeps his keys. Subsequently, they managed to lure the company away from the cards into the next room, steal the keys for a while and get their prints on the restroom. These were then handed over to Žateka by a military counterintelligence who, according to them, made copies of keys and could break into the student's father's apartment. Awesome work and an amazing qualifying prerequisite for working in the civil service of a democratic state! The second example, perhaps even better, is the work of Cmdr.StB Milan Souček with the long name Forms and methods of State Security institutions aimed at deepening differentiation between non-publishing writers and non-publishing artists, respectively writers who publish their works without the consent of the Czechoslovak authorities. After an amazing collection of misleading information and dusty interpretations, among which he wants to differentiate, among those persons is, for example, Václav Havel or František Kupka, the author is convinced that the biggest problem is the legal income of such persons from works published abroad. It therefore proposes legislative measures that would extend communist censorship to the whole world: to ban the issue of anything abroad without the permission of the Czechoslovak authorities and, where appropriate, illegal publications, income from them originating from them, to declare illegal - which is simple and aesthebacic genius. [[16.30 hours]] The reading and examples are more or less random, dozens of other similar works can be found concerning other churches, universities, interest organizations, work, cultural activities in virtually every area of life of the then Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. In short, StB was the secret political police of the Communist totalitarian regime that grew through society, controlled all human activities illegally, and severely prosecuted everything that seemed autonomous, dangerous, or simply different. For these activities, she raised her members of the 1st Faculty of the National Security College. As regards the 3rd Faculty, the Faculty of State Border Security, it should be noted that so-called. border control in the Communist totalitarian state... I'd like the left side where the KSČM club sits, if they could keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u73	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm asking my colleagues in the left side to keep their voice down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u74	I understand that it doesn't like to hear what I'm saying. So as far as the third faculty is concerned, it needs to be realized that so-called the protection of national borders in the communist totalitarian state was far from merely protection from the so-called. an external enemy, but it was directed primarily against its own citizens, which, by means of sharp ammunition, electrically charged wires, booby traps, trained dogs, severe criminal penalties and large agencies prevented them from travelling abroad and de facto made the whole Republic one large concentration camp. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to conclude by pointing out that my proposal is not discriminatory at all. They do not prevent graduates of these schools from working in high school positions in the state administration, and even if they have had time to graduate from a normal school, they can apply for positions where higher education is required. The proposal merely states that studying at these faculties is not enough for their graduates to be able to serve as a council, expert council or senior council in the state administration of a democratic state, which I think I have made sufficiently clear in my contribution. I conclude that my proposal is included in the system, and in a detailed debate I will sign up to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u75	Thank you and I have Mr Grospič's factual remark here. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u76	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I, colleagues, wanted to comment on another issue in relation to the proposed draft law, but, after all, the words of the previous speaker give me such thought that I would like to say that I have a completely different problem with the proposed wording of Section 7 (1). 4, because I wonder, for example, how it will actually be dealt with in substance with education, which has been nostrified and recognised in a number of other legislation over the past 25 years, and why this law should again implement the principle of inequality of acquired education. Of course, the reasoning that has been raised here - and probably does not belong at all to the subject of this law - so I think I understand that there is a significant problem for someone when the Czechoslovak Republic was guarding its borders by 1989, and I understand that for someone there is a highly democratic way, for example, that the United States of America is guarding its border in relation to the United States of Mexico. But we might wonder how in reality this thing is actually continuous and what undemocratic elements occur in the latter case. But I don't think it's our place to judge, and it's not our place to associate it with the proposed law in any way. I would like to say that I do not suffer from Euro-exaggeration or Euro-madness, that I do not suffer from excessive responsibilities in relation to the European Commission, and in this way I think that for me - and I would like to say that there is probably a conflict of interest, because -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u77	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u78	Yes, I will cut this short, because I will speak as a representative of one of the trade unions, so I think that this bill is discriminatory, that we should rather address the issue of strengthening the Labour Code and comparing working conditions for all employees, and not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u79	I'm really sorry, but the factual point is defined by two minutes. Thank you, and now with Mr Korte in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u80	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would only like to point out, by your means, that the United States of America does not prevent its citizens from going to Mexico.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u81	Thank you, and now, please, to Mrs Hnyková's speaking desk. Please prepare another one in the order of Mrs Chalánková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u82	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President. Before I start, I'm glad I finally got to the word. I'm not gonna tell you stories or stories, but I'm gonna start. Allow me a few sentences in the introduction before I get to my amendments and their justifications. From time to time - and symptomaticly, this is especially the case before the elections - an irritating response to officials emerges. They are referred to as those incompetent, slow, spent, bureaucratic architects of other people's misfortunes, that is, the workers. It is precisely the officials who are responsible for the state's functioning, ensuring legality and the exercise of justice. Anyway, without professional officials, he's not gonna stand up professionally. We are still hearing calls for efficiency of the state, its agenda, the exercise of public power, the slimming of the state apparatus, etc. The current situation is, however, that the employees of the state administration are fully in the tow of political representation. the fact that employment in the public administration is regulated practically only by the Labour Code, with each political change there will be significant personnel shocks. They remain mostly just ordinary employees, demotivated, disgusted, driven by political leadership, that is often completely professionally, managerially and humanly incompetent. What has succeeded during the period of operation of legislation in municipalities and regions is absent from the state administration. It was not in the political interest to have a stable, independent and professional staff apparatus. Compared to other Central European countries, the Czech Republic is not an oversized bureaucratic state with an extreme number of officials, as is still presented. The paralysis of state administration is largely due to an ineffective legal standard governing the rights and obligations of officials and defining principles and political and professional governance. The position of a civil servant is really unenviable. If we talk to people who left or were forced to leave the government, the usual reason for leaving is because they were not willing to do what they are told and are contrary to real work obligations. [[16.40 hours]] In other words, they are influenced by superiors who are placed in their positions on the basis of political, friendly or other ties. Others remain because they simply fear and prefer not to say anything, or are loyal to unauthorized political pressure. It is forgotten that they are people, moms and dads from families, that they have opinions, attitudes, dreams, and hobbies. And what should the Civil Service Act bring us? The Civil Service Act aims to ensure a high-quality administration performance for long years in advance. It is intended to eliminate existing negative influences in the state administration. This is in particular a depoliticisation of the state administration, ensuring its stability and efficiency without the effect of external effects arising from the current political situation, a fair remuneration system, etc. Last but not least, it is also intended to ensure the attractiveness of the state administration and the interest of working in it for both existing employees and new people, especially young people. The law should lay down clear and binding rules of state service, representing the Bible of state services based on the principles of quality security of basic needs and requirements for the benefit of citizens of the Czech Republic. However, if we look at the individual paragraphs, I conclude that not all paragraphs are written in favour of the quality of this law, but, on the contrary, in favour of the proposer of a comprehensive amendment. Officials are supposed to be - and I allow myself to use a very hard word - serfs. I cannot remain silent on this as a Member of Parliament, which is why I am making these amendments. My first amendment concerns Section 48. The present comprehensive amendment stipulates that a civil servant may be transferred for a period of time strictly necessary for the performance of the service, but for a maximum period of 180 days per calendar year. With its consent, this period may be extended by five or more than 180 days. In other words, forced labor, welcome back. If we compare this category of employees with members of the Security Corps, I quote - they can be transferred because of the important interest of the service for a maximum period of 60 days, § 36 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Law No 361/2003 Coll., plus members of the Security Councils have a completely different position against future civil servants, and duties and restrictions are compensated for by members. Therefore, I propose that a civil servant may be transferred for a period strictly necessary which must be determined in advance, but for a maximum period of 60 days in a calendar year, to another service office or to another organisational department of the service office, even without his consent. With the consent of the civil servant, the period of transfer may be extended for a maximum period of 60 days. And I hope the plaintiffs assume it's calendar days. My second amendment concerns § 63, as follows: If he cannot be a civil servant in the cases referred to in § 62 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, he may not be a civil servant. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) to (e) and § 62 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) transferred to another post of service, since none is available, shall be included outside the service, but for a maximum period of 12 months. From the date of inclusion outside the service, the salary of a civil servant shall be 50 per cent of the monthly salary, but at least equal to the minimum wage under another law. This part of the salary shall be increased by 10 per cent of the monthly salary per civil servant of the dependant, but not more than 80 per cent of the monthly salary. Here I must say again that this is a significant deterioration in the position of a civil servant and against Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members. Members of the Security Councils, who are included - and I quote again - in the advance for temporary non-inclusion, are entitled to a service income of 80 per cent of the average service income. It is in § 124 para. 3 of Law No. 361/2003 Coll. In addition, the period of advance for temporary non-attached persons shall not be limited in time. My proposal is: if he cannot be a civil servant in the cases referred to in § 62 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) to (e) and § 62 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) transferred to another post of service, since none is available, shall be included outside the service, but for a maximum period of 12 months. From the date of inclusion outside the service, the salary of a civil servant shall be 80 per cent of the monthly salary, but at least equal to the minimum wage under another law. The third amendment concerns the service assessment of a civil servant, in Section 161, where it occurs, and it is mentioned here for the third time, a significant deterioration in the position of a civil servant against Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members. It shall fully minimise the use of appeals by the staff member in the event that he does not agree with the results of the service evaluation. The comprehensive amendment does not allow a civil servant to appeal against a service evaluation, so he cannot avail himself of proceedings in service matters and the provisions of the Administrative Code on administrative procedures if he does not agree with the service assessment. And again, a comparison with the security forces. They have the right to object in writing to the evaluator's leader within 15 days of his receipt - § 203 para. 3 of Law No. 361/2003 Coll. The section also deals with the procedure for submitting objections. That is why we want to exclude § 161 para. 2, delete point (j). I will also sign up for all amendments in a detailed debate. And say what in conclusion? As I have already said, if these amendments are not agreed, there will be a significant deterioration in the position of a civil servant, even against the law -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u83	Madam, I'm sorry, we'll wait for my colleagues to keep their voice down so you don't have to scream at them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u84	Yes, it's very unpleasant, but there's nothing we can do. Thank you. So I'm going to go back - against Law No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members. However, the comprehensive proposal is also contrary to the opinion of the Economic and Social Agreement of 30 June 2014 in which it is stated, inter alia, that the amendment to the Civil Service Act should not contain more stringent provisions on the obligations and limitations of civil servants than those of members of the armed forces in the Act on the Service of Members of the Security Corps. But at this point, unfortunately, it does. That is why I ask: Will the agreed agreements finally start to be observed in our country? If a good law is to be established, it must be properly prepared and discussed. However, the current amendment to the Civil Service Act is discussed in a non-standard way of legislative solution. It is intended to ensure that the government's objectives in this area are met speedily. It contains a number of risks, which we have heard about today, both constitutionally and in terms of a fundamental deterioration in the status of civil servants and their remuneration. [[16.50 hours]] I do not want civil servants to become completely dependent on the will of their superiors, which will happen if these provisions, which are very hard and contrary not only to the labour code, but also to members of the armed forces and their law on the service of security forces members, are passed unchanged. Or do you want a lot of educated people who are still in government to want to help and work, lose the last motivation and leave the state administration? I thank you all, colleagues, for the approval of these amendments and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u85	I thank you and please to the microphone next in order, Mrs Chalánková. Please prepare Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a reference to the opinion of the State Reconstruction several times. Let me read into this opinion because, like the European Commission, it criticises this draft service law under House press 71 and the already mentioned State Reconstruction Initiative. I can say for myself that I was honoured to have been able to cooperate with this initiative of Reconstruction of the State during the previous parliamentary term and to participate in certain work negotiations, such as those currently under discussion in the Service Act. The reconstruction of the State compared the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the amendment to the Service Act with the parameters in the statement of support for the Reconstruction of the State. The proposal's comment was also a basis for a round table with the participation of opponents with experience from public administration and members of the Working Group Reconstruction of the State, which contributed to the formulation of the assessment of the amendment. The Working Group of Reconstruction of the State, in agreement with its opponents, concluded that the bill presented cannot ensure the professionalisation of the state administration and, if it is adopted, it will have to be substantially amended shortly. Unfortunately, the proposal does not correspond to a number of parameters and principles contained in the State Reconstruction Support Statement, as we explain in detail below. This concerns, in particular, the stability and openness of the state administration. Another part of the essential parameters, such as the regulation of whistleblowing, cannot be evaluated as they are to be regulated under the law, which we consider inappropriate and unjustified, given the detail in which the proposal deals, for example, with the title of civil servants or the reconciliation of work and personal life. The fundamental problem is the question of remuneration. Its larger reform is expected by the authors only within a period of two years. Even if we optimistically assume that quality innovation will actually take place, the temporary remuneration model reduces the financial value of young people with higher education, as the scale is abolished and emphasis is placed only on seniority. This will make the government even less attractive financially for young people. At the same time, the proposal practically concludes the entry into the state administration of experienced professionals and experts from other sectors. New officials will only be allowed to enter the post of official and head of department, including former officials who have gone to European or international institutions, with the exception of the European Commission. In addition, during the first year, selection procedures are to take place for superiors. It will be chosen only from existing officials without a new remuneration adjustment. This threatens formalistic implementation of these competitions and threatens implementation. The proposal resigns from the reform of systemization. Neither the new systemization is supported by any audit of the agenda nor similar analysis. - I would like to stop here because I consider it very important to talk about agendas and audit agendas, too, because if we want to approve -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u87	Madam, I'm sorry. Hang on a second, we'll wait for our colleagues to lower to the right and to the left, it's coming from both sides.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u88	Thank you. Thank you, Madam President. If we want to approve this service law for state officials, we also need to know which activities and how many officials we really need. That's a pretty basic assumption. The proposal will not ensure the conditions for meeting the declared objective of increasing the efficiency of the administration's performance, its stability and professionalism, rather preserving it. The speed of adoption is at the expense of its quality and long-term sustainability. It is a real threat that the law will soon be amended. The proposal for a comprehensive amendment is prepared without the involvement of the opposition. There is no wider expert debate, only to consult selected groups. Such a systemal and fundamental legal standard should be passed through a standard legislative process, including a substantive intention, an assessment of the impact of regulation and external commentary procedures. There is also a lack of financial impact analysis. The proposal for a comprehensive amendment is not accompanied by an amendment law which is yet to be prepared. If the bill is approved in the proposed form, it will be necessary to further amend this proposal. Therefore, I warn you, let us not approve of the pasquil and let us engage in proper discussion while there is still time. I repeat once again - The reconstruction of the state in agreement with the opponents concluded that this bill in its submitted form cannot ensure the professionalisation of the state administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u89	Thank you. I now have Mr Adamec's factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u90	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I overheard the word "Renovation of the State" several times today. You know, it's not supposed to be used when it fits in the store and when it doesn't fit. I think we need to think about who we're talking about here, who it is. I have performed here several times with the fact that it bothers me very much, because it is a group of people who simply promote their political interests not as much as we do, that we let ourselves be chosen properly, but through us and in a way that is very reprehensible. Remember, before the election, how you were challenged, whether you signed some five or nine, I don't know what the rules are, and if you don't sign it, you'll be blacklisted and the voters won't be ringing you. I asked the Economic Committee who they really are. It's not quite clear that it's some group of civil associations. In the end, the person who represented them seemed to be lobbyists. I don't want to judge whether lobbyists are positive or negative. I don't think we should talk about lobbyists here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u91	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Now, please, to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we could discuss the details here for the next few hours, discuss the individual sections, but today we have heard the European Commission's fundamental comment on the service law. Quality of the Service Act comes first. Time plays a less important role. Therefore, allow me to recall developments in recent months and, above all, the procedure for the preparation of the Service Act. In January, we received a parliamentary proposal for an amendment to the current Service Act, with the clarity that a new comprehensive amendment would be drawn up. We received it at the end of May, in a paragrafo version. In June a meeting took place in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where a number of amendments were applied. However, no resolution has been adopted by the Committee. However, the amendments were re-readed in the Constitutional Legal Committee. [[17,00 hours]] At the end of June, further amendments were tabled in the Constitutional Committee, some of which had up to 54 points. We have recently received another document from the Constitutional Legal Committee, where all these amendments have been registered. You could say 'in order for Members to confess', which is why I ask if all this was necessary. It was said that the opposition was invited to negotiate. Yes, it was, but only at the time when the paragrafo version was prepared. At this point, it is only possible to discuss the details of the proposal, not the overall concept. That would have been possible, but at the beginning of the preparation of the new law. The coalition dealt with various subjects, such as trade unions, only forgot the opposition. Our comments made just when the comprehensive amendment was on the table in the paragrafo version were clear: We do not want the Directorate-General, it is about concreteizing the state administration. We wanted sufficient penetration of the state administration and self-government. I will sign up for these amendments in a detailed debate. As has been said here, the financial implications of this law are not quantified. The reasoned report, which I read thoroughly, was just a description of the paragrafo version. We've waited a long time for the amendment law. Service law is the way in the right direction, but not in the current form. The mistake occurred at the beginning of the new law, when the coalition did not invite the opposition to act and when the opposition could not express its position on the overall concept of the new law. But not all days are over, the error can be easily corrected, starting negotiations with a coalition with opposition to our demands. The aim is to adopt such a service law, which will lead to a stable professional base for civil servants, who will be proud to be able to work in state services and at the same time consider their work for the State as a public service for all. These civil servants will then support every government, whether right-wing or left-wing. There will be officials with historical memories who will allow every government to avoid past mistakes and ensure continuity. So let's not dwell on the details, let's start thinking about the overall concept again. I therefore call on the coalition to open negotiations with us, with the opposition, and then we can have a new quality law on the table soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u93	Thank you. I would now like to see Mr Zahradník's speaker's counter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u94	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, like many of my previous speakers, seems wrong and unacceptable to me. As one of the main flaws, I accuse him of the utter impenetrability of the state administration system that he anchors, and that the administration's governance is unnecessarily complex. So I'm not going to vote for him, but still, or maybe that's why I'd like to put a few reasons on a bowl of scales against his acceptance, which could help some of you open your eyes. I will use two such excursions into the past - the recent past. There I dare to take advantage of my experience with Law No. 312/2002 Coll., on the officials of the local authorities, which I had the honour to apply as the governor as well. Maybe we've dealt with this law, I don't want to say even in some cases they've fought. And then I would like to look into the history of the more ancient way that our great-grandfathers, or great-grandfathers, might have dealt with this problem, maybe, to a law that was passed on 25 January 1914 under the number 15/1914 and which bears the name of the Act on the Service of civil servants and civil servants, or so-called. official pragmatism. This law, with the strength of its majesty, was issued by Emperor František Josef ., and so the introductory words also suggest: "With the conviction of both the House of the Reichs Council, they see me order as follows: " And so now it goes on about half the volume that our law is, a text from which I would like to quote some things and draw attention to the problem that our great-grandfathers have already seen and which we, or you who make the law now under discussion, may not see or forget, or may not be so clearly visible in that text. Here, for example, the law says directly in Section 1 that "the persons whose assets are subject to bankruptcy cannot be established if the bankruptcy proceedings persist" Or: "The provision requires the authorisation of the Central Office when the applicant" - and now the first three provisions concerning the age of the applicant - "has been released from the public service or has resigned from the public service for disciplinary proceedings initiated." So it's kind of the man's history. How are we doing? Can a person who has already been expelled from one of the state services be thrown out of the proceedings against him, on the basis of which he had to resign from the office of clerk, be rejoined? Isn't that a mark on his professional history that significant? Or, for example, here: "If it turns out additionally that an official has taken out a provision by submitting invalid instruments or withholding circumstances which, under the applicable rules, exclude the provision, be disciplined against it. " We, of course, have a duty in our law to prove the official's qualifications by officially certified documents, but perhaps it might come out in time that one of the fined masters of officials has taken the liberty of amending those instruments. How do we proceed? Here one of my previous speakers mentioned maybe in the morning, so I do not recall, with all due respect, which of the honourable lords of his colleagues it was, but he mentioned the defect that it was the authority to appoint the CEO, that is, if - for God's sake - such an institute was established in the law, it removed it from the hands of the President. This law of ours says that the cases in which the service oath was held in the hands of the Emperor of the Lord remain untouched. So he leaves His Majesty's authority. As far as qualifications are concerned, we are quite in agreement here. We demand professional education, our ancestors too. Here, they require skill and understanding. The Czech language was a little different than our language today, and maybe the German translation also influenced it a little bit. But then it is clear - diligence, conscientiousness and reliability, competence for contact with parties and for internal service, knowledge of languages - even this is included in our proposal - the result of employment, and the world, wonder, even behavior. And behavior. [[17.10 hours]] § 24. "The official is to maintain the seriousness of the situation in the ministry and outside the service." Are we also talking about the state of the clerk? We mean not just the job, not just the clan you're going to create, the caste? Do you also mean that we're creating a state, something that these people should be proud of? After all, being a clerk should mean belonging to a state of affairs. Of course, our ancestors already knew what it meant, and so they acted not only as officials but also as creators of this law. The exclusion of an official from various associations, unions that could undermine his position, is therefore obvious. We're probably thinking about it, too. "The official is to respectfully treat his superiors and in contact with official comrades and subordinates to save decent behavior." Well, I hope that's what we're thinking, too. We are no longer concerned with the military service, which the ancestors had to think about, because they had to maintain the privileges of the state of the office during the presentation service and allow the holder of these ranks to return after completing the military service. In January, they had no idea what awaited them in six months or three quarters of the year in 1914, the one hundred years before that law was passed. This law even thinks about how an official should act if he marries. "If an official marries, he shall notify the office of service within 14 days." I don't think that's gonna work for us, in our gender-correct times. 'Cause I guess we're gonna have a clerk, too. Well, I guess we'll pass, I won't insist on putting it into our law. As for the earnings of secondary jobs to be notified to the Service Office, we too.... [[Note to the rapporteur outside the microphone]] You think about it, I believe it, it's there, in the law. Here is an interesting provision that you have also thought about quite widely and richly, and it has already been mentioned here: "The official is entitled to use an official title and is entitled to be called this title in both service and official decrees. " [[The speaker turns to the rapporteur's desk.]] You've assigned titles. Did you also think that the title should be used and carefully investigated? I believe so. Our ancestors, aware of the permanence of time and permanence of values, also thought to officials - and now I quote again: It is the right to continue to use their official title to officials outside the service, as well as to retired officials. However, on all official occasions and in all copies, they shall be required to make a note of their title, which shall indicate the non-service ratio, of the retired ratio.' We know it from our Austrian friends, the short and. D. - Kreishauptmann ausser Dienst. That's how our friends from Austria consistently title me in letters, still. You've been thinking about these titles, I believe. And even you, I believe, have consistently remembered their use. But what you haven't thought of, and I must very strongly point out to you, Mr. author of the law, and that is a uniform. Our ancestors have established the right - I quote again: "The official has the right to wear a uniform in the country according to a valid uniform regulation, appropriate to his rank and professional competence." Attention, of course! "The provisional official shall be given a uniform proportionate to the provisionally suspended position.' As far as leave is concerned, surprisingly a hundred years ago, they were not too far away from us, stating that "each official is entitled to annual leave for recovery unless they contradict urgent service considerations. " How much would you say that vacation was? For interns 14 days, for officials in 10th and 9th grade rank three weeks, in 8th and 7th rank class four weeks and finally for those top officials from 6th and higher rank five weeks. They had five weeks of vacation. But I guess that's what you've been thinking, too. And I don't think we're special here. Perhaps in conclusion - here also § 62 says: If an official becomes blinded or confused without his deliberate guilt incapable of further service and any other earnings, he will be added to his numerable service time for ten years to measure a retired one. [[Resurrection in the Hall]] - If those officials read this law that you put in their wine, then the mind will be insane. Please think about it. But what is serious now, and I don't know if you thought about it, Section 71 says about being off-duty: "If an official is applying for a parliamentary mandate for a constitutional representative body or for an alternate's mandate, either out of official duty until the election has been made, they have been put into an off-duty ratio. If an official is elected as a member of the Reichs Council and does not refuse his choice, he or she shall either order taxes outside the service for the term of office, in the event of an election for an alternate on the day on which he or she entered or was called to the representative corps.' The officials you speak of will be close to the world of all kinds of mandates. They may be tempted to apply in elections to obtain a parliamentary or senate mandate. And we're thinking that they would go to work at the same time as they're running, virtually. They didn't go, but did they get represented by an understudy while they were campaigning? I'm afraid not. Much is then devoted to punishment and disciplinary responsibility. They were very strict about it, but on the other hand, they were just. They gave the opportunity to represent the oral trial, denouncing and stopping, appeal, and resolutely required the execution of the finding and subsequently after the execution of the suspension. So this is what he looked like, gentlemen and ladies, the law our ancestors received through the mouth of the ruler a hundred years ago. As for the other historic excursion, I have to say here that I have met with the law on the officials of the local authorities in the role of the governor, now out of service, and we have solved various problems, how to get rid of the influence and the possibility of public speaking by an official who fatally failed the trust that was in him. A clerk who stopped defending the interests of the region and held the interests of another, obnoxious, private party. How to get rid of him? Give him a statement? Call him off? I couldn't. He has not fulfilled the conditions in the law that he must be finally convicted of a crime. It was not, and it was therefore not possible to withdraw it. We did it, we were dragged into court by him. Or another example. The head of an important department at the regional authority was suspected of committing a crime by changing the public document, so he was prosecuted, was wrongfully convicted, but he was still somehow circling the region and worked and interpreted the view of the region about how the management staff of the institutions for which he was responsible had to perform correctly, as they should correctly ask for European funds, and yet he himself was unjustly, but ultimately convicted. The final conviction came later. We tried to call him off again. We asked him to step down, and he couldn't do it hard, that withdrawal would make it worse for him in the eyes of the state's attorney, or he kept doing what he thought he was supposed to do. [[17.20 hours]] And so we were looking for a way. We've found a way that you'll probably be looking for, too, because there's also criminal prosecution in that bill, suspension of service with the fifty and another ten thousand money, the possibility of appeal in a final conviction, which is always a long way to go to the final conviction. We found such a way that he didn't act as a proper clerk, he didn't behave properly. It's also there somewhere in the law that he has to act like that. And We called him off. He sued us, sentenced us back into service, condemned the return of lost funds. Finally, when we finally wanted to get rid of him, we had to offer him a generous severance payment, not as generous as you offer the officials on the way out, 12 times, was not so high. It's just a certain field trip to what's in the law. I found other things here. You say here that an obstacle to recruitment - and now I am in reality, in that particular law of ours - is a person performing military exercises or an extraordinary service. What about active reservists? Aren't civil servants allowed to be active agents under our law? Aren't they always in conflict when they go to practice? And I'm expressing great respect and recognition to active reserve workers. Will the clerk be able to do this, or won't he? Then there's the court stuff, I already mentioned that. Yes, this is actually the section 61 in our law which we are discussing, paragraph. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) discharge of service on account of detention. Well, sometimes criminal proceedings can be conducted outside of custody. It's open, a man is free, he's being prosecuted, but this man here from the superior's service post, that is, from the high post, he can't be dismissed. So, folks, I think I've already come to the conclusion of my contribution here, which, as I see it before me, is chronologically mapping the laws as I drew from them and giving examples: 1914, 2002, 2014. You see, there's no extra difference. Our ancestors had the same worries as we do, so people wouldn't come in unworthy, unworthy. But with all due respect, the law of the Emperor of the Lord thinks far more so that new people can enter the state administration. He talks about a corps of officers, how an officer can become an applicant for a post in the state administration. Teacher. Another kind of civil servant. College teacher. That's what we're very limited to. Therefore, allow me to intercede for this proposal to be put back into discussion, so that, in the end, our opposition request can be heard, so that we can redo the law so that it is not for the benefit of us, not for the benefit of those officials, but for the benefit of the citizens who will be forced to deal with those officials anyway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u95	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Stanjura in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u96	Thank you. I'm gonna have a very short gig. I asked 22 specific questions about two hours ago, and I didn't get a single answer. So if the working method of the petitioners and the newsletter is to keep quiet and not say anything, then we really can't discuss it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u97	I thank you for keeping the time limit, and now, please, to Mr Vilímec's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u98	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, originally as a Member who only made a parliamentary pledge yesterday, I did not expect to be active at this House meeting, particularly in relation to those laws where the first reading took place. However, the circumstances of this extraordinary House meeting and the effort to discuss this amendment to the Service Act encourage me to do so. I also have a question prepared to conclude my performance. I believe the translator will be present. I also have some amendments prepared that I could not enter into the system because I do not know if the House press 71/0 will be discussed, which is an amendment to the existing service law, or a completely different text, which is called. here it speaks, and this is the House press 71/8, which, on the contrary, repeals the existing, albeit ineffective, service law. Even from this you can see the situation in which we are, an unprecedented situation. Although I had just made a parliamentary pledge yesterday, I was a Member in the previous and previous parliamentary term, and I would hardly look for an example in discussing a law as serious as that of service during this parliamentary term. When I go back to the text that is relevant to me, because it is fundamental to text 71/0, submitted by six Members, in some cases also by ministers today, it is indeed worth noting that the Government's position on House press 71/0 is not only disagreeable, but in many places the reasoning is pointed out directly to a contradiction with constitutional order. This is not a good report card for today's prime minister, who is also the author of the original draft, or a good report card for all others, especially those with legal training. Yes, it was a mistake that since the adoption of the law in 2002, none of the other governments, both left-wing and right-wing, had the courage, perhaps they did not have the time to change the text and adapt it to make it feasible. In the last parliamentary term, such a last attempt was the effort of the Nečasův government, which could not be brought to an end, as we know, due to the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies. At all costs, I consider the present attempt to push through the service law both from a factual and legislative point of view as a very bad direction. The law, which should be one of the foundations governing the exercise of significant administrative activities for the State, is presented so strangely that we would hardly look for any other examples for this, even in so many critical parliamentary periods. I have not been present in the House since the beginning of the parliamentary term, of course, but I know that the discussion of the text of this proposal has been suspended in committees several times. On 3 July 2014, as I was able to get acquainted, suddenly the constitutionally legal committee comes up with a comprehensive amendment, which completely repeals the 2002 law, on the basis of probably coalition agreements. This, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, is simply not the way to discuss the Civil Service Act. As has already been mentioned several times, there has not been any official external reminder procedure, only to any séances, whether night or breakfast. I don't think it can replace an external reminder procedure. None of the institutions concerned was officially able to comment on this in the context of the comments procedure. [[17.30 hours]] Only today do we hear from the representatives of the government coalition that, without hasty - and I note hasty - we will lose billions of this law from the European Union. Turns out today it's a little more complicated than that. While the European Commission naturally puts pressure on the adoption of such a law, but certainly neither does it, and it has shown it in its opinion or recommendation, it has no interest in hasty discussion of the text of the law, which, on the contrary, can do more harm than good. First of all, it was a matter of limiting the legislative debate to a minimum, because we are now so-called. We rule, we create the law in our image. That such a form of law will have an unfortunate impact not only on civil servants, but above all on citizens, we do not care. We will simply take positions in ministries by our people, who will next decide some kind of personal connection and determine the profile of individual administrations, individual ministries in principle according to our dispositions. There was talk or reference to the institute called. Deputys who will not be able to manage any resort or any section. Every other minister of future governments, if this bill were approved, will be unlucky. Yes, he can take two deputy ministers, but they will have no powers within the ministries. It's gonna be a kind of kibitz. Only, as has been said, they can represent the Minister in the Government, they cannot vote, or in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate. Now I do not want to debate the details of the proposal, which will certainly be tabled many amendments. Unless the bill is returned to committee for discussion. Yes, the Civil Service Act, or the state officials, as we call it, is quite secondary, but that is in the standard form of the legislative process and in the quality text. Not the way we're being imposed. The Civil Democratic Party has declared, by the mouth of the political party's chairmen, club presidents and other speakers, that it is willing and ready to participate in the preparation of a quality text that will actually lay down clear rules for the activities of civil servants, but will also establish a clear name for the responsibility of these officials. You can't do that on your knees, even if the knee is Mr. Chvojka's or Mr. Tejc's or others' knees. You can't just do that in someone's deal with someone. The aim should be quality and efficient government, not the emergence of other offices, Directorates-General, Directors-General and the intransitability of the entire system serving some current political interests. At the end of my speech I would also like to ask Mr Chvojka, Mr Chvojka, who is one of the proponents of the law, not Mr Dienstbier: What led the petitioner, or the petitioner, to the fact that within the so-called. The systemisation in Section 188 is entitled to be admitted to the service of an official who so requests within two months of the date of entry into force of this Act and who has been active in certain offices listed there for the last ten years? Among other things, in the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. I want to ask why it is limited only to municipalities with extended scope. Why isn't there a community with an authorised office? Because, for example, the former head of the construction office in a municipality with an authorised office now holding a systematic position, he will not be able to become an employee under the service law. Unlike the head of the construction office, which holds the same position in the municipality with extended scope. I really don't understand. And I would like an answer to that question. I do not think that the head of the construction office in the municipality with the municipal authority is anything less than the head of the construction office in the municipality with extended scope. And there are more such matters in this law, and I will certainly be directing the amendment to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u99	Thank you, Mr Vilímc, and before we continue the debate, including a factual point, so allow me to make an apology to the Minister of the Interior, Milan Chovanec, who leaves at 17.30, by the end of today's meeting day. And to be sure, I would also like to make an apology to Mr Bezecný and Farský, because I do not know if they are recorded in the protocol. Now, therefore, Mr František Laudát's factual comment. Mr. Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I was going to ask you to take an adequate break and make sure at least one of the six lawmakers is sitting here. Otherwise, we can talk here, then we can read from the Chairman of the YES movement that we can talk about what we want here. There's no point in doing such a thing. I think of it as contempt for the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u101	Yes, I'll ask the chairman of the Social Democracy Club to arrange for the presence of one of the petitioners. And since there's enough of them, I think some of them are sitting in the O.R. But in that case, I would like someone to sit at the rapporteur's table, although the rapporteur, not the petitioner, is obliged to note the course of the debate. Nevertheless, I would ask that one of the petitioners take a seat at the table. A colleague of Chvojka with priority rights, then a colleague of Benda. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u102	Thank you for the floor. I would like to clarify, or explain, my particular double roll. Maybe even my person can be considered a petitioner, even though I am a rapporteur, but that happens in this House. I was appointed rapporteur by the first reading and all the others, and at the same time I submitted a proposal for a comprehensive amendment as one of the proponents to the Constitutional Legal Committee, which is nothing unusual. For example, when I think of the last parliamentary term, when there was a big amendment to the order of execution, my colleague Staněk, who was the rapporteur, also tabled major amendments. So I am both the rapporteur and the appellant, but I am not the plaintiff of the original until first reading, so I now consider myself a rapporteur. I would like to say that it is an interesting experience to be rapporteur for the Service Act. I'm in charge of two laws at this time, I think they're both very important, virtually. Service law a little more. The first law is the register of contracts, the second is the service law. As far as the reporting of the contract register is concerned, I feel certain news coverage there. But as far as the service bill is concerned, it's almost news nirvana. As for my role, I repeat, I am the rapporteur and have been designated by the rapporteur for the first and all readings. And therefore, please don't address me as a translator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u103	Thank you. A colleague of Benda's gonna wait. With the factual remark of his party colleague Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u104	Hello, thank you for your word. I cannot be the interpreter of the Rules of Procedure, that is, maybe it will show how important it is to have Filip in interpretation whether or not the double roll is possible. [[Turns to the President, he laughs]] Anyway, what I want to say is, if the double roll may be, that is all the more reason for Mr Chvojka to answer the questions that are falling here. Because someone has to know, and since it is so that you have so many functions in this law, or through you, sorry, I think it would be right for Mr Chvojka to respond either to Mr Chvojka or someone in the government or someone. [[on the President]] But there's no way that no one's answering, and there's still different functions combined here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u105	I thank my colleague Blažek for his point of view and for keeping time. Perhaps only my answer: There is no such obligation with the translator. We've been there. But with the rapporteur, yes. He really must follow the course of the debate. But I see that the Social Democracy Club will already provide another colleague. Mr. Benda has the floor. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u106	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are a little tired of discussing the Civil Service Act, but let me also draw your attention to some of the problems I see there. The first thing I really enjoy in this House is how no one pretends to have anything to do with the law. Nobody wants to sit here, the only one who's actively running and performing is the Minister without a job, but the Home Secretary is pretending that it's not his work at all, the translators are pretending that it's not their work at all. I wonder who's gonna be responsible for this mess, if it's really the minister without a job, or who it's gonna be. That's the first note. The second note I tried to impose on the petitioners is purely legislatively technical, but I feel that it is of a relatively significant nature. The bill, which was submitted by Roman Sklenák, Jeroným Tejc and others, is called the bill for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and civil servants in administrative offices. This is exactly the press we're discussing. When you take that beautiful complex amendment, it is part of Section 200 (1) that "law No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other servants in administrative offices'. I think it is really strange and absurd that the law which we are theoretically amending will abolish the amended law and replace it with something completely different. That if there's something sticky, but there's an absolute character, it's really this, and I'm not even really sure if it's still there. But these are notes of a rather technical nature. Now those fundamental points of fact for me. I have tried to draw attention to them in the repeated negotiations of the Constitutional Committee, and I have not been heard very much. I find it very unfortunate if we are trying to impose on the state service all the independent regulators that we have been building here for difficult years with many peripetia, whether it be the Radio and Television Council, the Czech Telecommunications Office, the Office for Competition Protection, the Office for Personal Data Protection and others. There's always a completely unsystemic part of it being removed somewhere. The director is removed, the whole board is removed, but the entire office is under the authority. I have no idea why, for example, what special advantage does the Office for the Protection of Competition, which is supposed to control the administration, control the way in which it awards public contracts, so that other civil servants can transfer to it. What's the special meaning of this? The same penthouse, which quite obviously carries out state administration of a completely different nature than is foreseen in this law, is a state statistical service. We well know what problems it has caused, for example. in Greece, drastic influence on the statistical service and data of the staff and how they were then punished by the Commission. And we're trying to get the staff here under civil service, and we're trying to say that even though the boss is going to be special, the rest should belong to the civil servants in this service law, and that he should come from other service offices. I don't understand what the advantage is when someone from the Ministry of Industry and Trade is going to move into a penitentiary, why it's not much better to marry a man from a mathematical-physical faculty who knows how to do statistics, but someone who did some government work somewhere. I don't understand. I haven't been explained to the translator until now. There is another problem with this that in Sections 17 and 19, where certain authorities, Energy Regulatory Office, ČTÚ, Office for the Protection of Competition and Office for the Protection of Personal Data, are partially excluded from the systemization, but the statistical office is not excluded. I don't understand why. The radio and television broadcasting board shall not be exempt. I don't understand why. So what we're saying is that these can be more influenced by the government, these can be dictated by the government, they're less dependent? As well as in Section 19 Organizational structure, there are some exemptions, but again lacks the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council and the Statistical Office. Now we suddenly decided to submit statistics to the government, in a situation where, on the contrary, all international organisations are pushing us to have statistics as independent as possible? So I would like to draw attention to this, I think that this is a big mistake and that we should sit down with the petitioners on how and which organs, why they are excluded. The second issue, which I consider to be very important, is that of the Directorate-General and, in particular, the position of the Director-General. From this person, I don't know if anyone has read this carefully enough, will become the most powerful man in this state who will dictate to a government that will have absolute power over the appointment of not only state secretaries, but also all other leaders of other authorities directly subordinate to the government, even in the form that, in the accompanying law that has been submitted to us, absurd provisions remain that the government will continue to appoint one or the other, e.g. Head of the Mining Authority, head of the Nuclear Energy Authority, but they fall under this law. That means they'll be chosen by the CEO of the State Service and put it on the government and say to them, "You, the government, name it." Then there's another big problem, which I don't know if the petitioners registered that in § 52 et seq. It is further said that the person named must follow the results of the selection procedure, and paragraph 5 states: "Participants who have succeeded in the selection procedure shall be entitled to be appointed in the order in which they have been placed in the selection procedure. " Now let's assume that there's someone to name, whether it's the government or the CEO, and they're not going to do it for a reason. For example, the CEO will bring a name to the government that the government simply does not vote. Then let's not give her the authority. Then let's say it's all named by the CEO. But in order to bring a name to the government that the government must vote, we are never able to force the government to do that. This is a collective body where everyone votes for themselves. But what happens if the government of the relevant director or the relevant state secretary doesn't vote? On the basis of the proposed text, this will undoubtedly turn to the administrative court, which he will probably want, as he has done in the past repeatedly in cases of judges and the President of the Republic, to replace the will of the government by a decision of the administrative court that the government had to do this because it is so stipulated. It will happen very quickly that if the government ever doesn't approve what the CEO has brought her, and we can't force her to do that, then we'll have two directors in each institution. One that may be approved by the government in order of order, but simply does not approve the first, and the other one that will be returned by an administrative court. I don't understand who made this up. I do not understand why this order is not only binding, but where it is also said that all these appointments are legally entitled. On the other hand, surprisingly, it is explicitly said that the legal claim is not that even if I sign up, succeed, everything will work out, so I have no legal claim and must close with me. However, appointments in all these functions are subject to legal entitlement. Then let's not pretend that there's someone else's name, and let's just say that the result of the selection committee is announced. I think this is a terrible mistake, as it is done, even in the form that it is done with the central authorities, that the CEO has the absolute advantage, that although you have proposed to the committee four, two to two, but in the event of a tie, the President's vote must be a person from the Director-General. Well, you could have already said that it's five people and that it has three CEOs and two others, or that it's three people and it has two ones. [[17.50 hours]] But the fact that you made two plus two and one has two votes, I find it completely flawed. If anything, I'd let two plus two agree that the state service has to agree with, let's just say, a more political representation, but the idea of giving one the absolute right to make a decision and the way I say that the chairman has two votes just seems completely wrong to me. And unfortunately, there are a number of such reservations that could be gathered to the law. I don't think it's gonna work, that it's not even gonna concrete your state administration - it's gonna concrete the minister without a job, some CEO he's gonna bring in, and all of his people sitting there, completely controlling all the departments. The present has the possibility of at any time its subordinates, respectively. once a year, fire. If he says that the service evaluation he makes is inadequate, the person goes, only consults with the relevant minister, but automatically recalls it and does not ask anyone about anything and writes a new tender. We'll have ministers who won't make any decisions about anything, no one will ask any questions. There has been talk of what political deputys will be here, it will only be guards from other coalition parties who will have the task of guarding the minister, but the actual possibility of influencing the civil service will be only from the inside, only through your superiors, but very strong at the same time. In doing so, this whole general manager and others structure is going to be extremely strong, because the service evaluation says, "Once bad, the next day you're leaving." The funny thing is that the Director-General is not subject to a professional evaluation. He is removed from him, he is apparently so perfect, and from the beginning it is so clear that he is so perfect that he is not subject to any service evaluation. I think it's really, really funny. I see that most of the government coalition is equally not enjoying it and does not listen, so I thank those who have listened to me and, in conclusion, for the reservations that I say, because I think that it is really in the interest of everyone, not the opposition, but everyone, in order for the ministries and the entire government apparatus to work, it is necessary to return to that law, and some of these preconceivedities and some of these incredible forces, which I believe the Minister has written there for himself and his colleagues, must be corrected. So, after the general debate, I propose that we return the bill to the constitutionally-legal committee and that the real negotiations of the government coalition and the proponents be initiated with the opposition on how to improve this so that the real civil service can stabilise it. I don't want 300 or 500 people trading after the election. I agree that this is wrong. I'm up for it even in a situation where you're in power and you've replaced these people, but I think it's a good thing to stabilize them, but we can't do it so that it's completely out of control and any supervision, and that the election will be here just for show. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u107	I thank my colleague Benda and ask if he really meant that this will be after the general debate, the return of committees. It is a bit of a pity that there will be no amendments either. Although his comments were calm and factual, he nevertheless raised two factual points - one from his colleague Klánek and the other from the President of the ODS. Mr Klán has the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u108	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, let me respond to Mr Benda on the Czech Statistical Office through you. According to the law, we only remove the president of the statistical office from the area so that it doesn't apply. Other employees of the Czech Statistical Office will fall under the law. And now I'll tell you why. Not to defend the law here, but for what reason they will fall under this service law. It's similar to the State Office for Nuclear Safety. And, as you know, the competence law of both the Czech Republic and the State Office for Nuclear Safety states as the central bodies of the state administration. Now let me ask you, what do these institutions produce? Private service? Do they defend private or lobbyist interest? No, they are, see Section 2 of the Competenčák, the central authorities of the state administration. And they produce a service that is a service for the state, as it follows from their responsibilities. If the CSO were not to fall there, and neither would the State Office for Nuclear Safety, I would understand it in a way that, when amending the law of competence, they would demand expulsion from the law of competence so that it would not be the central authorities of the state. In that case, I don't know who they'd serve but the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u109	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u110	It's pretty hard after that sharp opposition act to tune in and get off quite calmly. The Minister without portfolio, without work, came back and said here when he spoke that dozens of employees of all ministries provided for him while they were planning it, and that it actually replaced the external commentary procedure. So maybe those dozens of workers could already process the answers to my questions. I'm not really gonna let it go - but it's only to Part 1 and we have dozens more questions about Part 2, 3 etc. But in the meantime, if it wasn't so boring that I wouldn't keep repeating myself, I would always add one new one. Question: Civil Aviation Authority. Who and how will appoint a boss and what will be done with the consent of the European institutions, which is necessary in this case? And how will the commissioners who have to fly through the law for hours and at the same time have no legal posts? Do we really think we're gonna give them enough salaries to buy their own air traffic lessons? That's Question No. 23. I'd like the rear crews that provided support to add it to the first 22 and give us a brief and clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u111	I thank Mr Stanjur, and before Mr Štětina, who is duly applied for, will reply to my colleague Blažek's call, that neither § 57 nor § 58, let alone § 90 or 91, do not modify the duty of the appellants to sit, unlike the rapporteur. So much for the Rules of Procedure. Please, colleague Štětina in his proper performance. But I see Jeroným Tejc's colleague is staying here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u112	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with one brief quote. History is the mother of wisdom - and I am also teaching a lesson. I therefore recall some of the figures from the explanatory memorandum to the Act on the Civil Service of the Government of Petr Nečas, and I want to believe that the greatest critics of this current bill will realise this fact. The law governing the rights and obligations of civil servants was already approved in 2002. We all know that. In particular, it was Law No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and the remuneration of such employees and other servants in administrative offices, the Service Act, which was intended to regulate the conditions for the employment relationship of civil servants in public offices. All the well-known facts, it's been dropped a few times. Law No 211/2002 Coll. it was prepared as a public law standard which, however, had never taken full effect, in the absence of a general consensus on its implementation into practice. This law did not want political guarantees because they could not cause the collapse of a controlled corruption system, and therefore the consequence was repeated delaying the effectiveness of this law. From the government's programming statement of 4 August 2010 - and now please pay attention to the C.E., because then we will come to an end, when this law should have been effective from January 1, 2014. The Government's programming declaration of 4 August 2010 showed that, by means of legislation on the rights and obligations of officials, the boundaries between politically occupied and administrative positions in public administration should be determined and ensured by the depoliticisation, professionalisation and stabilization of public administration. The Government has therefore ordered the Minister of the Interior to process and submit the substantive intention of the proposed legislation. Everything was fine here, everything had its order. [[18.00 hours]] The substantive intention of the Act on Public Administration Officials and Employees and Public Administration Education was approved by the Government Resolution of 31. 7. 2011 number 647, by which the government also ordered the Minister to process in government and submit, of course, to the Minister of the Interior, and to submit for approval the thesis of the Act on Officials of Public Administration and Education in Public Administration approved by the Government Resolution of 15 February 2012 No. 92. The most important benefit of the implementation of the proposed legislation is the creation of conditions for improving the performance of state administration, through educated officials and for depoliticizing public administration, which will also bring about greater stability, greater satisfaction of citizens, clear rules of conduct, representation and activities of civil servants, the possibility of more accurate and transparent planning of the use of wage funds and the means to educate civil servants and reduce the risks of corruption and the emergence of corruption in the state administration. - Well, beautiful words that have never been fulfilled. So there's never been a discussion, because neither is the so-called. the rule of law, the fight against corruption and budgetary responsibility could not afford to accept this law, and the fall of the government, after the approval of the church restitutions, is, of course, merely a proxy reason that this law could not be approved at all at any time, which proves the explanatory memorandum to § No. 78 of this law. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on 1 January 2014. This date corresponds to the start of the new programming period for drawing funds from European Union funds. The European Union has laid down the existence of effective legislation on the status of civil servants as a condition for allowing the use of funds in this programming period. So that's the conclusion. If anyone is telling us that this law would have been passed in the last parliamentary term, it would not have been, because, as I recall, in June 2013, the government fell, we dissolved in August, which means that even if we had not laid down the government in June or this government had never been laid down, then never to 1. 1. 2014 this law could not enter into force. Ladies and gentlemen, I never like long words and I try to be brief. I leave only to you how you will continue to discuss, possibly insult each other and encourage the citizens of this country to constantly negate all the good they have done with their work for the benefit of the whole society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u113	I thank my colleague Jiří Štětin. Now, with a proper application from Mr Marek Černoch, a colleague from Adolf Beznoska will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u114	Thank you for the floor. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I would just start by applying to question 23 of Mr Stanjura on the Civil Aviation Authority, where indeed commissioners, flight hours are very expensive, and if they have to fly, I think they're going to spend big money. The Civil Service Act, which is being discussed here, I personally and the whole of Dawn certainly want it to work so that officials can gain some certainty, but in the form in which it is presented, it is unacceptable from our point of view. The governance models are several, each country has the opportunity to choose its own system, whether political or non-political, depending on their decision, and from our point of view this system should be non-political mainly in order to be functional government and effective government without any influence with any exchange of ministers, when it shakes and when officials who are not loyal are removed at that time, on the contrary, people who are somehow attached to the new minister will come there. All you have to do is look at the last term of office. About 700 people, and that's about two months ago, so I think the number that's, uh, is already higher. How many of these officials have been really incompetent or attached to some old practice, I don't think anyone can see. How many of these officials have been replaced because there was a need for a place for people bound to the government. It's a question, and I hope every minister, or that politicians should work in a way that they're mainly trying to make it work, to make it work for people, not to make it work for some friends. From our point of view, the bill presented is such a miniature device in all the declarations of disbelief, of depoliticizing the state administration, because the system for choosing the CEO is just political, and it's a system that brings another golden nest with golden eggs for people who I don't think are always the best. A system that will continue to work and that will concrete this government. The CEO should be there for seven years, then a new CEO from state secretaries will be elected, so another person who will work according to the assignment of the current government. It's at least 14 years old, and to put it public, it's painted because if you look at it really really, the moment a person is chosen and approached, that person will fulfill the assignment of the person who approached him. That's just the way it is, and it is. At that point, we have prepared an amendment which we will read or to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, so that it is bipartisan to propose and approve, appoint the President, and, of course, refer, which is, or should be, an impartial, independent person. It works this way with other institutions, so I think it could work here too without any problems. Of the other things that we completely disagree with, the Directorate-General is an organizational part of the government's office, because the Directorate-General is under the authority of the Prime Minister. It can then exert pressure on him, e.g. as regards the budget of offices, etc. The Director-General will be budget-controlled by the Prime Minister, which, from our point of view, also does not appear to be the ideal thing to do. The inclusion under the Government's office is more than a de facto symbol of how independent the Director-General will be, who is actually a direct subordinate prime minister. All truly independent institutions in the Czech Republic are not included under the Ministry, but have their own budget chapter. The ceiling of remuneration to 25 percent of the annual salary is a reasonable compromise. Preventing senselessly high rewards. But it would take a good explanation of the government, because by this time, 155 miles have passed on. CZK 26 million, government office itself. And how much of that money did the officials who work in those offices really get? The first systematicisation of the public administration, scheduled for 1 January 2015. Is the government really sure that everything will be done on January 1, 2015? I don't want to question it, and I'm sure the government itself has the best information, but if we're based on the experience of some things going on in our country, especially those that are sewn up a little bit in a hurry, it's a bit of a mistrust, and the government should distract these ambiguities. A unified interpretation of the law. The question which is not sufficiently addressed in the law is the unification of the procedures and interpretations of the opinions of the state administration. The Civil Service Act should also help to unify the interpretation of the Act and to lay down procedures in dispute issues. This problem, I think, has not been discussed enough, and it is one of the important benefits of the law. The law is made from our point of view in haste, which has already fallen here several times, whether it concerns the missing analysis of financial impacts, because the numbers that are, so in the order of the people it touches, at this time it is the number of 65 thousand, however, the numbers fell even 100 thousand, so it should move between 5 and 8 billion. koruna, which is not a negligible amount, and it certainly should not work by voting something, and only then will it find out how much it will cost, because then, of course, someone will ask where the money will be taken. It is therefore a law that, from our point of view, is made quickly and which certainly deserves to be worked out, as has already been said here, by Mr Benda, so in a detailed debate we will join the proposal that the law be sent back to the committee for completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u115	I thank my colleague Marek Černoch. Now, Mr Adolf Beznoska, Mr Milan Šarapatka, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u116	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have been very brief since the debate revolves in a circle, a few notes for itself. All day, or a substantial part of the day, we are talking about who is to be in the state administration, what is to be enjoyed by an official, who is to name him, what his function will be called, how it will be addressed, and no one here in the debate has yet said what was to be preceded and what was to be part of the debate, namely how we want the state administration to be performed, to define how we imagine the service, the service to the state, towards the citizens, just how officials in the system are to move and prevent the two-actience of possible interpretations. It's a service, and I wouldn't want an unelected official in our state to rule. We must maintain that the politicians who work today and daily with the vision of other elections, who simply bear the consequences of their work, are those who make final and clear decisions. From this point of view, it is clear that I cannot, as we are supposed to, let this law go on, but I will join a number of those who have agreed with my colleague Marek Benda's proposal that the law be returned to the Constitutional Legal Committee and subject to further discussion and finally open the debate with the opposition. You know, in the proposal, virtually. in the second reading came an amendment, which has 84 pages and about 200 paragraphs. So we can't even talk about having second reading because the material we have before us is a whole new material. From this point of view, I do not understand the rush, either, because such a kind of mantra of the whole day was defending why the law must be passed so quickly, because we would allegedly have lost the drawing of European subsidies. I think that during today's debate it has been clearly refuted that this is not the case, and I do not want to question who is lying or not lying, but today it is certain that the European Commission is not clearly claiming any such right to draw any subsidies. So let's get back to the proposal. Otherwise, what's bothering me is certainly as much as you are, the establishment of the Directorate-General. It's the establishment of 40 jobs, an office that's completely useless. It is another bureaucratic element in the state administration, which will burden not only citizens, officials, but also the state budget. And that is precisely against the spirit that we all claim to simplify and also make more effective. Otherwise, the debate on the efficiency of government would certainly be extensive. That is the first thing - the Directorate General in no way. The second thing that is very considerate, and I believe that we agree on it, is that the system, as it is designed, is not de facto accessible. There is no possibility for professionals from other fields, academics, fresh graduates of universities to come to the state administration. For this reason too, I think we should say no to this proposal clearly. And to add to a whole series of questions raised by a colleague named Zbyněk Stanjura, perhaps one. The Secretary of State is to be elected in a two-way system, respectively. selected. In the first round, only the performances from the office, the second round and the other offices can take part in the election. And so my question goes to what happens if the Secretary of State is not chosen in either of these two rounds, which will follow. That's my question to the petitioner. I'm gonna keep the other notes because I think there's gonna be plenty of room for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u117	Thank you, Mr. Beznosk. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will speak before his colleague Šarapatka with a factual remark. No? Well, I'm sorry. I've got you registered here. All right, then, Mr. MP Milan Šarapatka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to comment on this law. I fully understand the opposition of some political parties to the law. By adopting a law that has been so successfully blocked for 12 years, they will start drying up money flows from godparents and friendly companies to which the connection to overpriced public contracts will be cut off. The fact that these parties would only have to live off the subsidies that the state is giving them for the election, and from the membership contributions of its members, must seem like a terrifying nightmare to them after years of vacuuming the state budget. The situation created by Czech politicians and legislators around the Civil Service Act in our country is one of the biggest fraud committed by Czech political parties during the last ten years. It is a fraud on both citizens of the Czech Republic and on the European Union. First of all, I would like to address fraud against the European Union, which had depoliticalisation of the state administration through the approval of the Civil Service Act as a condition for the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. Back then, our politicians acted like a smart mountaineer. They approved the Civil Service Act, thereby fulfilling the European Union's condition, but blocked the entry into force of the Act. As you well know, the European Union does not want to put up with this fraud and threatens the Czech Republic - and must be said to rightly - with economic sanctions. If this happens, these economic losses will go to the detriment of the parties who have ruled here in recent years. By blocking the validity of the law, politicians did not depolitize the government. That was the second fraud, fraud on the citizens of this country. The lack of functioning and practical absence of law and rules on state administration enabled political parties to take full control of the state administration. Ministers and senior civil servants have become absolute masters. They could have fired whomever they wanted for an hour and, on the contrary, accepted whom they wanted, regardless of abilities, knowledge, practice, and qualifications. Ministers of the Ministry didn't drive, Ministers of the Ministry occupied. The heroic type of minister proved his vigor on his arrival by firing several high and thus visible officials, while quietly putting a number of his comrades on his political side into the ministry. And because politicians seemed to have a small bureaucratic salary, they introduced high-level executive salaries for selected workers. There were only millions of gold parachutes left, as is the case with some state firms. This was done not only in ministries but also in other government bodies. With these practices, our political parties returned to the period of communism, when the party book was a reference to occupying a good place and a higher salary. This was the beginning of looting, not just the state budget. Political nominees were ruthlessly deployed especially where large orders could be influenced and directed to the right godfathers. They were placed where they signed contracts for tens of millions, e.g. contracts for legal services which mostly were not even fully delivered. Within the framework of the so-called reducing the number of civil servants has been discharged by computer operators, cleaners, cooks, maintenance staff and others. For the high amounts were subsequently hired by friendly private companies, which still carry out these services at far higher costs, and the friendly companies became generous donors, whether official or unofficial, to party cashiers. Pessimistic estimates indicate that up to CZK 200 billion per year has been stolen from the state budget through these dirty procedures in recent years. [[18.20 hours]] Our political representation of recent years had no interest in changing this situation. Even the opposition knew well that in the event of a win, it would also reach the trough and that it would take its share from the state budget. And when there was a government exchange, the parties used the system handwashing, as evidenced by, for example, the fact of recent times when the current foreign minister for social democracy put the ODS exponent in the position of ambassador in one of the important countries, who never worked in diplomacy and was politically pushed into the ministry at the time of the government of the previous coalition. Perhaps our established political parties know too much about each other. For example, why do you think Mr Kalousek was satisfied with the state of financial offices, where tax control comes statistically every 300 years in Prague? Politicians, using a long-term campaign against government officials, have convinced the public that officials are actually fools, because politicians say any private company can do their job better. Officials are not fools, and this is evidenced, among other things, by the fact that many of the best officials in the public administration who have been so decimated have gone to the private sector where they work successfully. On the other hand, incompetent people were put in their seats, virtually anyone who had the right political legitimacy. . [[Constant noise in the hall.]] This enlargement of policy into government has so widespread that even the lowest management functions have been politically occupied. That is why the government degeneration and the quality of its work have been reduced. But nobody really cares...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u119	I would like you to turn down your calls, if you are interested in discussing another subject, to discuss the subject in the foyer and leave Mr Šarapatka in peace and order to arrange his interesting contribution to the subject. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I am quite familiar with this situation because, as ambassador, I have worked with a number of state authorities and I have seen that their performance has fallen very sharply in recent years. Every government, every state works as well as its government works. And we've had more than enough of the signals that our state is failing to function properly lately. Everyone remembers the problems with the vehicle register, the problems with the payment of social benefits and, for example, the problems with controlling the alcohol market, where lack of supervision has led to one of the greatest tragedies of recent times. It has cost dozens of lives and brought suffering to hundreds of our citizens. Our state must start to function again and the Civil Service Act can help it in a fundamental way. I would like to say that I think we have reasons for very mild optimism. As I said before, our officials are not fools. Despite the massacre carried out by political parties in state authorities, there are enough capable and reliable people in government who have great potential. But now this potential needs to be freed, rid of politically deployed, incapable leaders, clean up the atmosphere, and let honest people work properly. No law will be perfect and will remove problems immediately. But in every office, people know who's capable and who's politically engaged. Once the law comes into force to remove the protection of political marketers, they will be under strong pressure from their co-workers who will no longer have to worry about being fired from work for their criticism by a politician. This process will not be simple or short, but it is a clear way out of the crisis in which the Czech government is now in. Although the bill has many errors and I identify and agree with many reservations about it, I am sure it is better than none. I will therefore vote, albeit with considerable reservations, for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u121	I thank Mr Milan Šarapatek for his speech. We are continuing the general debate with Mr Jan Klán's speech. A colleague, Petr Bendl, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I will interrupt you for a moment and I note that I have received two apologies from today's meeting, from 19 o'clock he apologizes for health reasons Vojtěch Adam and from the meeting tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 13 p.m. colleague Jiří Štětina for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, one more good day, ladies and gentlemen. I have already spoken here at the beginning of the general debate, and let me make a few more comments here, because some of my previous speakers have provoked me to this speech. I've been talking about the service bill and its history here for hours. I tended to repeat it all for those who weren't here, but I'd like to give this up. But I'm going to make a few more observations, because we haven't dealt with the Supreme Audit Office yet. I have tabled an amendment that this law should not apply to the President and Vice President of Control and other people in the SAO. For what reason have I tabled this amendment? The SAO has its specifics. It is not mentioned, i.e. included in the competence, in part of the central authorities of the state administration, but its role is defined by the Constitution itself, the fifth head. For this reason - even if it is not really managed as a central government body, and according to the petitioners it is not as an administrative office, but according to others it is again and should be covered by the Civil Service Act - I understand that the law should not apply to elected officials again. That means the president and vice president of the SAO and other people. The SAO is an independent body, not contrary to the fact that it produces a service for the benefit of the State. Control of state budget expenditure, control of public procurement, control of revenue from sale of state property is not a service for the state? I really think it's a service for the state. It's a public interest. Then I would like to ask the petitioners, if the law should not apply to the SAO, for whom does the SAO again give its outputs imposed by the SAO Act as a service? It's for the state. It shouldn't be any public interest, it shouldn't be for anyone other than the state. For this reason, I tabled the amendment that the law would not only apply to the president and vice president of the SAO. It's about this part. I've already spoken to the CSU here. And as far as the State Nuclear Safety Authority and the President of Mrs Drábová are concerned, we can discuss this. As I could see, Mrs Jermanová has tabled an amendment in which she is removing the President of the State Office for Nuclear Safety from this law. However, employees will be subject to this law. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] I will now make a few observations as to why the petitioners and, in turn, the previous governments have not been inspired elsewhere, perhaps abroad. Personally, I could imagine that we would be inspired, for example. in Austria. First of all, from a historical point of view, we were part of Austria-Hungary until 1918, so we have historical ties, and secondly, Austria-Hungary has a similar territorial breakdown as our Republic. It seems to me that the previous governments, as well as the current government, want to introduce paskvil into our legislation under the impression that if the paskvil does not work elsewhere, it will certainly work with us, as it has happened many times -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u123	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace again. We have the last two entered into the general debate and I would like at least to be able to end the general debate. Thank you, gentlemen. Proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u124	Thank you for the peace of mind, but if anybody doesn't care, he's free to leave. Or I can repeat that once again for those who don't listen to it, to understand that really, when we introduce gags into our legal system, it doesn't bode well. And as I said before, why not learn from Austria? It's a country next door, I think it'd be a good place to, uh, publicize, that service bill, to work on our laws there. Maybe it would work somehow. Instead of creating these things we're doing here. It is, of course, a mockery for citizens as well. Then we can't be surprised that they're disgusted with politics and politics when we're doing all these different things here. [[18.30 hours]] Looks to me like we're in some kind of legislative jungle where there's a swamp out there sometimes. The swamp is this law of service, and if we get caught up in it, it will lead again from nothing to nothing, and the result will be absolute zero. For this very reason, and not only for this reason, I would like to return this press to the committees for a renegotiation. This will be the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Constitutional Committee on Constitutional Law, after the close of a detailed debate. And it is because I think that there should be individual amendments here, so that the committees have something to discuss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u125	I thank my colleague Klán. I would also ask my colleagues to speak correctly about, for example, the name of the state, or individual words such as the validity and effectiveness of the law, we should not confuse this. That's at the expense of many performances. The rapporteur shall have the floor with priority rights. A colleague of Bendl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u126	Thank you for the floor. I only wanted to respond briefly to my previous speaker, Mr Klánek. I must say that as rapporteur - it is my role, my role - here I listen to various comments, various speeches, and I think that Mr Klán is one of the best today. He uses words like swamps, ghosts. However, I just wanted to point out - he did an example to the Austrians, where he said the service law and the state administration work better - I just want to tell him that they had only a few decades more to do it than we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u127	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Petr Bendl is due for debate. Before that, his party colleague Adamec. [[Ambassador Adamec reporting with a proper application.]] Well, in that case, you don't take precedence over your colleague. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to comment on this legal standard. I will no longer say the details of how they fell here, because I see enthusiasm in the coalition and in the opposition, in the coalition that we are already suffering from this, they are unable to answer the questions they are asked, or at least those who are signed under this bill. More or less everyone's worried about it, because inside they know it's a mess, but now they don't know how to get out of it, because they just put a noose on their necks, and now how to come out honest, so the wolf eats and the goat stays whole. I'm gonna try to take a little field trip to the past because we've been in a similar situation before. As a political dinosaur, I must say that we once had something on the table called a grand reform of the public administration, and as part of this reform of the public administration, we discussed across the political spectrum what regional authorities should look like, how they should be set up and so on, and I, as an opposition MP, for a while before I gave up my mandate and became the Central Bohemian Governor, voted against the formation of the regions, because I have many reservations about how they are set up. Nevertheless, I would like to remind existing political entities, the elders and the new ones that, in the end, we were able to find consensus, and although the reform of the public administration went the way of comprehensive amendments, there were a number of them, the whole reform, the emergence of the regions and all the contexts, all the government proposals were redesigned in the House and we were able to set them up across the political spectrum, so that today it is no major political problem. I remind you that, for example, we had prepared the so-called State Secretary's office from that government bill, where the government had the authority to appoint a State Secretary as part of the Regional Council, maybe it would have a chance to veto some regional council decisions and so on. We have dealt with the problem in such a way as to suit the European Union so that we have an independent director of the Regional Authority, who is appointed in connection with the functioning or position of the Minister of the Interior, and we have been able to resolve a number of such things without any significant financial costs, and at the same time public administration in this regard and government in the regional authorities cannot say that it would not work. We can say that we have some reservations, but the reform of public administration has been relatively, across the political spectrum, because there is always something to improve, and it has succeeded. When I newly became a member of the Public Administration Committee, I remembered this because I saw the petitioner of this highly complicated law, who today also show that they do not really know the details of the law at all, and are unable to explain some of the contexts - well, it really is complicated, because it completely went by the proper commentary procedure, because it is not a proper government bill, so that individual state organisations can comment on it. Therefore, wonder, at the meeting of the Public Administration Committee, representatives of state organisations come to lobby, whether it is not possible to modify this or that. I don't want to name them here because I feel that they could then be executed transparently by the individual directors who pointed out specific things that are not in the law or that have been forgotten and so on, just because they are being boiled with an unnecessary hot needle. I must say that if Prime Minister Sobotek and his team wanted to distinguish themselves from the work of Miloš Zeman, however much I did not agree with him as Prime Minister, then they are doing a high degree of professionalism, to a high degree of not seeing them than on their own doorstep, because we are not making a law that would be for one term. We're making a law that's supposed to be functional and it's supposed to be for a long time. And it's a shame that social democracy - I'm sorry, but I have to say it - doesn't have people of Miloš Zeman's caliber anymore and so on. Their word was valid, I could disagree with it and so on, but there were a number of things that were just about laws that were above one parliamentary term, that could always be relied upon and that could really be done. 'Cause we can't figure out 200 people's law here. We are able to work on it in committee, make working teams and have a few days with the fact that we will have coffee in the morning and we will go through each individual paragraph and we will talk about what the European Union really wants from us, we will not be overreacting and surprising here, making ourselves visible on something that may be interesting to the Minister without work, because it will be nice medially, but we are actually unnecessarily surprised by the things that, as a result of this law, when someone approves it, maybe someday someone will approve it, if you approach what the opposition here I think quite rightly criticises and the four things that we want are not a problem in the concept of this law. In short, visibility at the expense of the quality of the law is stupid, naive and unprofessional. [[18.40 hours]] I would very much like us to have a strong Prime Minister, a strong Interior Minister, who, instead of chewing during the negotiations of this law - and only bubbles were missing - so instead of defending here this bill, which concerns the public administration, which concerns the functioning of this state, and I say again, for a longer than one term of office, instead of speaking here, the Minister without work, who is not in charge of the public administration, who is not in charge of the things that are really supposed to work on the labour team, and there is a team of deputys, people capable, who know the functioning of the public administration, so that we can be able to do something that is not expensive, it will meet the conditions that the European Union wants us to do, and at the same time, it will be operational for a few parliamentary periods so that we do not have to worry about it here. I'm sorry for this emotional speech, but I had to say it, and I had to let you remember the time when we were fighting like dogs here, but we were able to make a deal. That time seems to have disappeared, and there's a high degree of professionalism and self-observation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u129	I thank Mr Bendl. With a factual remark, President Pavel Kováčik and then colleague Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u130	Thank you for the floor. Madames and gentlemen, I have learned that, at these moments, the negotiations of the government coalition with part of the opposition are under way precisely on how to proceed with this bill. As the other part of the opposition, we want to create space so that they can act nicely calmly and not miss the proposal, so allow me to ask for a one-hour break at the KSČM club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u131	So we're going to postpone our colleague Tejc's de facto comment after the break. I'm declaring a break until 7:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to take your seats in the O.R. because the time has ended for which the House meeting has been adjourned. Let me introduce you to the apologies that have arrived. There's an apology from Minister Herman since 7:45 p.m. There is an apology from Mr Benešík from 7:30 p.m. There is an apology from Mr Antonín since 7:45 p.m. As the general debate has been concluded, I have a point here that Mr Benda has proposed that this bill be returned to the committee for renegotiation. I don't see Mr Benda, but I suppose that's true. So that's something we should probably vote for right now. I'm going to call my colleagues to the O.R. at the same time registering the application for check-out, so I'm checking you all out, and I'm asking for a new registration. So before we vote, with priority rights, the chairman of the TOP 09 club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay, but before this vote, I would like to tell the Chamber of Deputies how the card is dealt, if you don't mind. There are two options: either we will have a service law, a quality service law without the Directorate-General, or we will have no service law. The card won't change. We can talk about it today. If we don't agree to this today, we'll do it again in six months. The card will still be the same. Either we have a service bill without the Directorate-General, or we don't have a service bill. That's the card we all have in our hands. And neither one of us, nor Minister Dienstbier, will ever get an ace of hearts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u134	Yes, well, if the Minister wishes to exercise the right of priority, I will, of course, give him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u135	So we have just heard the original approach to how politics can also be done. Blackmail: it's either our way or it's nothing. Let everyone make a conclusion of it for themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u136	I am therefore formally ending the general debate because it could be argued that the Minister has reopened it with his speech. Then I shall conclude the general debate and proceed to the vote. I checked you all out. Those who wanted to register have registered. We will therefore now vote on Mr Benda's proposal, which proposed that the Chamber of Deputies return this law to committee for renegotiation. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with Mr Benda's proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 11, registered is 152, for 62, versus 86. This proposal has not been adopted. We can therefore proceed to the detailed debate that I am opening up with this, and I ask Vice-President Jermanová, who is the first to appear in the debate. Mr Klán will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed regulation of the Civil Service Act unites all the authorities, with only a few exceptions, regardless of the exclusiveness of some of them. The effort to unite labour obligations and the conditions for the performance of public service work is perfectly understandable, but this unification should relate to the performance of work of a similar nature, not to the performance of the work of a narrow layer of qualified experts. These experts will not be applying for positions at other offices where they could not apply their qualifications in the least, and in these cases can therefore not be counted on the permanence of officials to the entire state administration...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u138	I apologise, please, for the peace of mind, so that the honourable Member can make a peaceful presentation and justify her amendment. Please especially the left side of the hall. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u139	This fact concerns, above all, experts in the nuclear and energy industries, whose activity is often not the performance of standard administrative work. It is therefore necessary to make specific amendments in order to extend the exemption of the Civil Service Act to both the President and the inspectors of the State Office for Nuclear Safety. This adjustment would contribute to the status of the State Nuclear Safety Authority as an independent regulator. This is, inter alia, required by Council Directive 2009/71/Euratom and also prepared by the Nuclear Safety Directive. [[19.50 hours]] The next item of the adjustment to ensure the independence and impartiality of the State Nuclear Safety Authority is its inclusion among the authorities to which the government cannot reduce the number of posts and the amount of appropriations per salary without the consent of the person in charge of them. The independence and impartiality of the State Office for Nuclear Safety is supported not only by restrictions on government interference in systematicisation, but also by restrictions on the possibility of direct intervention into the organisational structure. It is therefore appropriate to include this office among the authorities whose organisational structure is approved not by the Director-General or the Government, but directly by the head. This is in brief to introduce you to my amendment, which you will find in the system under number 1050. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u140	Thank you. The next envoy is Mr Klán and Mr Korte will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I sign up for my amendments, which are conducted in the system as House documents number 1043 and 1049. Firstly, this is a legal regime of the SAO and the second amendment concerns the National Security Authority. These are the same amendments that I tabled on the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u142	Mr Korte has the floor, Mrs Hnyková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u143	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I just want to sign up for my amendment, which I announced in the general debate, is included in the system under number 1061. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u144	Yes. Mrs Hnyková, then Mr Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u145	Good evening. I am signing up in a detailed debate on the amendments put into the system as House documents 1057, 1058 and 1059. I justified this in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u146	Yes. Mr Kubíček has the floor, Mr Rais will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for an amendment which is inserted into the system under the number 1094 and concerns the Czech Technical Agency, as already mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u148	Mr Rais has the floor, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u149	Hello, I am signing up for the amendment, and this number 1088, also applies to the Technology Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u150	Mrs Kovářová has the floor, Mr Vilímec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u151	I would like to sign up for my amendments number 1082 and 1083. I also presented them in the Constitutional Legal Committee and it is an extension of the possibility of entering the selection procedure by exempting certain authorities from the scope of the law and the Directorate-General, respectively. exempting systematicisation from the competences of the Directorate-General.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u152	Mr Vilímec and Mr Černoch will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me read the amendment, respectively. two amendments, namely to the House press 71/8, i.e. to the comprehensive amendment of the IDA to the press 71/0. Point 1: In Section 185, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the following shall be read: " (c) employees in municipal offices who work as secretaries of the municipal authority, a municipality with extended competence or with a delegated municipal authority": Second: In § 188 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) the following shall be read: " (d) he has carried out activities in administrative offices, municipal offices, regional offices or in the European Commission in accordance with Section 5 or activities similar for at least three years on the date of his application." I will read the reasons for these two points, although I have spoken partly about them in the form of questions that have not been answered, even in the general debate. A comprehensive amendment in the case of the so-called The transitional provisions extend the list of persons in positions which may be appointed for the first time by the Secretary of State, as well as to the directors of the regional authorities and the secretaries of the municipalities with extended scope, provided that they fulfil the statutory conditions. The expansion of the list of these positions as well as the employees of local authorities seems to aim at the first appointment to look for persons outside the senior staff of existing ministries and the government department. The extension of two more defined positions is still incomplete and, in a sense, elimination. In this respect, the proposal only partially extends several positions to the secretaries of the municipalities entrusted with the municipal authority. The division of secretaries for the purposes of the said Section 185, with the possibility of applying for the position of State Secretary, according to whether the municipality at whose office it holds the position of secretary is a municipality with extended competence or a delegated authority, is considered to be very unfortunate and unwise. The secretaries in the municipalities with the designated authority shall also exercise a demanding position as head of staff and shall be fully competent to adopt the applicable legislation. [[20.00 hours]] Similarly, it is in § 88, when the systemization separates the practice of municipal authorities with extended scope, as if the practice e.g. at the construction office of the municipality with the entrusted municipal authority or the practice of the municipality with the matriculation activity was something less in relation to this draft service law. I couldn't agree with that. This would lead to differences in the practice of municipal employees and, in principle, the degradation of the status of municipal authorities which are not municipalities with extended scope. Therefore, I propose to apply practice to workers of all municipal authorities in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u154	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Černoch's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u155	Good evening, Madam President, fellow Members, honourable Government. I am signing up in a detailed debate on the amendment introduced into the system as House Document No 1095, which addresses the choice of CEO under the Service Act by naming and withdrawing the President on the Government's recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u156	Thank you, and now, please, to Mrs Váhalová's speaking desk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u157	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government, colleagues, I offer to consider and support the amendment as amended by: V § 188 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) the following sentence shall be added at the end of the sentence: "The period of maternity and parental leave of the staff member or temporary incapacity for work due to sickness or quarantine shall not exceed 12 months shall be counted until the duration of the activity referred to in this provision.' The reason for the amendment is that the law does not, in its transitional provision, remember workers who are or have recently been on maternity and parental leave or who have been ill. From the point of view of family support, child care workers should not be discriminated against. It is therefore possible to count maternity and parental leave and sickness for a period of three years necessary for a change of employment in the service. The credit is limited to a maximum of 12 months. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u158	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Blažek's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u159	Thank you for the floor. I will have two amendments, which I will introduce gradually first, and then I will read the sentence that I propose to put into that law. In the first amendment, I say in advance that I do not agree with the establishment of the so-called 'no'. Directorate-General, but when I look at the coalition machine, I assume that the Directorate-General will be there, and I think it should be there in this case in a different form, because the objective of the law is so-called. strengthen the autonomy of the State service in the political leadership of the State. It is therefore contrary to the meaning of this law to make the Directorate-General only an organizational department of the government office. In order to strengthen the autonomy of the public service, I therefore propose that it be set up as a separate organisational component of the State and that its headquarters be separated from the head office of the state's top political leadership in Prague. I therefore propose that the headquarters of this directorate be in Brno, which has shown that, in terms of its background in higher education, it is able to secure the staff base of the Directorate-General as well as other formalities in the same way as Prague. By the way, when Brno became a judicial city, in practice, it proved to be the right thing to do, that it is based elsewhere than the political authorities of the state. The necessary links to the Office of the Government will be ensured by the Directorate-General being subordinate to them and the Government will have an impact on the occupation of its Director-General. This creates a relationship similar to that of e.g. between the General Financial Directorate and the Ministry of Finance or the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and the Ministry of Agriculture. Now let me read exactly the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u160	I'm so sorry, but I'm gonna calm down my colleagues because the volume is really big.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u161	And it would be greater if Mr Koskuba, who does not like Brno, was here, but fortunately he is not, so the noise is smaller.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u162	So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u163	I'll read it. Section 13, par. 1 reads: " (1) The Directorate-General is an organisational component of the State and an entity. It's subject to the Office of the Government. The seat of the Directorate-General is Brno.' As far as the second amendment is concerned, I would like to say here that, in the transitional provision, the law does not even remember workers who are or have recently been on maternity and parental leave or who have been ill. If gender equality and family support are the aim of the government, they are not to be effectively discriminated against by child care workers. Therefore, this proposal allows the inclusion of maternity and parental leave and the illness for a period of three years necessary for the change of employment in the service. The credit is limited by the maximum half of the time of the required practice. And now, I ask for a paragrafo version, as I propose and load it, and it is: in Section 188 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) the following sentence shall be added at the end of the sentence: "The period of maternity and parental leave of the staff member or temporary incapacity for work due to sickness or quarantine of not more than 18 months shall be counted until the duration of the activity referred to in this provision.' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u164	Thank you, and please, to the speaker's desk of Vice-President Bartošek's House. And I ask my colleagues to really stay calm, especially this bench on the left in the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u165	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up here for the amendment, which is mentioned under number 1086. It has a total of 34 points and it is both technical modifications, but since it cannot be anticipated how the negotiations around this law will continue to evolve, I will leave it to you after a good reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u166	Thank you, and now, please, to the last speaker's counter so far, Mr. Podivínský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u167	Madam President, my fellow Members, I would like to put forward an amendment regarding the Czech Statistical Office on three points. In the first point in the third sentence of Section 17, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 3 is proposed to add the text "or the Czech Statistical Office" after the text "Office for Personal Data Protection." I propose to include the Czech Statistical Office among the authorities to which the government cannot reduce the number of posts and the amount of appropriations for salaries without the approval of the President, and the reason for this is to ensure the need for the expertise, independence and impartiality of this Office which result from national and international legislation. Second, in Section 19 para. 5 I propose in the first sentence of the text "Personal Data Protection Office" means to supplement the text "or the Czech Statistical Office" to include the Czech Statistical Office among the authorities whose organisational structure is approved by the President and not the Director-General of the State Service, or the Government. The limitation of the possibilities of interference in the organizational structure should ensure additional support for the expertise, independence and impartiality of the Czech Statistical Office. Finally, thirdly, in Article 2 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures in question do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) a comprehensive amendment shall be inserted after the word "President" the words "and Vice-President." The exclusion of the Vice-President of the Czech Statistical Office from the personal scope of the Civil Service Act represents, in my view, a significant strengthening of the guarantees of the independence of the Office. In connection with this requirement of exclusion, therefore, the Vice-President of the Czech Technical University of the Civil Service Act, I propose to amend the method of appointment and withdrawal of the Vice-President of the Czech Technical Service in the Act on the State Statistical Service, as follows, in Section 3 of Act No. 89/1995 Coll., on the State Statistical Service, as amended, para. 3 and 4 would read: Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3: "The President of the Czech Statistical Office is represented by the Vice-President of the Czech Statistical Office, appointed and dismissed by the President of the Czech Statistical Office. If the President of the Czech Statistical Office appoints several Vice-Presidents, he shall determine the order of their representation." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4: "The President of the Czech Statistical Office and Vice-President of the Czech Statistical Office are entitled to give state staff orders to perform the state service under the Civil Service Act." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u168	Thank you, too. I now have Mr Stanjur, Mr Beznoska, Vice-President of the House of Gazdík with a factual remark, and then I have Mr Beznosk, Mr Zahradník, Mr Novotný and Mr Vilímca. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just finished loading the amendments, and I am asking for a little attention. We've been listening from the Minister this morning, from the plaintiffs, that the law is amazing, great, beautiful and smart, that after his approval the sun will shine more, the grass will be greener and better in our country, and here we hear one amendment after another, which is an exception, because it is not good for the office, it is not good enough here, there are not properly legislative technical things in this bill. So what's it like, is he good or bad?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u170	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Stanjura's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u171	I'd like to reassure Mr. Vice-President Gazdík. The law is wrong, and it won't pass like this, so I think he can sleep peacefully. I have put 22, respectively, in the general debate. 23 specific questions. Minister without portfolio, without work, kasala, what teams of workers are doing on this - I did not get a single answer, which forces me to make amendments, as we promised you to see them. brát them, these amendments as an entry into the discussion on those other parameters, apart from the four fundamentals that we announced at the press conference. Many of them are very useful and I believe that you will support many of them when we get to the vote one day. So let me read the amendment. In Article 19, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 number 30 is changed to 20. The numbers are in the quotation marks downstairs and the quotation marks upstairs. Simple justification: this shortens the time limit of the Director-General for the systemisation decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u172	Another envoy is Mr Beznoska, Mr Zahradník will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u173	Have a good night. Colleagues, fellow Members, allow me to present an amendment to the House of Press 71/8 Part I/2, a comprehensive amendment to the House of Press No. 71. It's a service bill. In Article 15 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 4 the words "after consultation with the relevant member of the Government and in the Office of the Government with the Head of the Office of the Government" shall be changed to "with the agreement of the relevant member of the Government and at the Office of the Government with the Head of the Office of the Government." There's a need for a direct consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u174	Mr Zahradník has the floor, after which Mr Novotný? Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u175	Mr President, I would like to put forward an amendment concerning Section 7 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 of the present proposal. This paragraph lists some infamous schools and teaching sites from the time of communism or based in the territory of the Soviet Union, which for the purposes of this law are not considered as teaching schools granting higher education, but is excluded from them in the last secondary sentence for some reason from the teaching grounds known under the abbreviation MGIMO, or State Institute of International Relations in Moscow. Our proposal therefore concerns the exemption of this condition and reads as follows. I will now read the wording of our proposal: in § 7 para. 4 the words "if it is not an education acquired by a study at the State Institute of International Relations in Moscow" are deleted. [[MGIMO]] The mention of this condition is redundant because if there are some civil servants who have passed this teaching school and obtained their education there, they are so good that we would record their loss, so according to § 198 para. 1 they can be forgiven for the condition of education. Well, of course, for the new employees we're going to receive, studying at this institute is no longer acceptable to us. Thank you for your attention and any support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u176	Mr Novotný. Mr. Vilímec will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u177	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, and colleagues, I would also like to read the amendment in a moment. I think his motivation is pretty crucial. It is an amendment to serve some sort of apology, defending at all the preservation of the role of politics, political governance, especially at the level of ministries. In this current proposal, as has also been made here in the general debate, the functions of political representatives are created, at most two, with very limited powers, and those functions of sub-heads for the management of sections, the functions of sort of section directors. First of all, we had a quantification. According to the existing structure of ministries, there would be about 50 new deputy ministers. That's the number of sections that have a section director instead of a deputy. It would have to completely redo the organisational structure of almost all ministries, etc. etc. As part of the apology of maintaining the influence of politics at least at the top level, we are therefore trying to return to the established practice and it is not just about the terminology that the terminus technicus, the chief director, remains, it is not just about the 19th century being a settled term and not a century of steam. It's really about shutting down the Deputy Director for Section Control. I'm going to read the proposal: Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR Article 4 (1) (a) (a) is amended as follows: " (a) Senior Director of the Section." The title of Section 57 "Nameing as Deputy Head of the Section or Head of the Section" is changed to "Name as Head of the Section or Head of the Section'. In Article 57, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1, the new paragraph reads: "The section manager shall be appointed by the Head of Service on the basis of the results of the selection procedure. The Head of the Section shall be appointed by the Secretary of State on the basis of the results of the selection procedure.' In Article 175, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 2 (2) is deleted and paragraph 3 becomes paragraph 2. In the present section 175 para. The words "with the exception of the Deputy Director for the Management of the Section' shall be deleted. Section 186, par. The first sentence of 5 shall read: "The Service Authority shall, within three months of the date of the entry into force of this Act, declare a selection procedure for the Chief Executive Director of the Section or the Director of the Section. This selection procedure shall, as a general rule, be completed by 31 July 2015.' Finally, in Article 85 (2) of the Treaty, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European So much for reading this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u178	Mr Vilímec, Mr Blažek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u179	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, let me read the amendment to House Press No. 71/8. First I'm going to read the proposal and then give a short explanation. In Article 17, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 shall be the last sentence - I quote - "If it is the systemisation of the Czech Telecommunications Authority, the Energy Regulatory Authority, the Office for the Protection of Competition or the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, the Government cannot reduce the number of posts in accordance with paragraph without the consent of the person in charge of them. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and (b) and the amount of appropriations for salaries referred to in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) as opposed to the systemisation for the previous calendar year.' deletes. The reasoning is simple and is that, in the event of a crisis, it must be possible to reduce the amount of money to salaries even for those listed institutions that appeared in the third sentence of Section 17. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u180	Mr Blažek has the floor. Mr. Beznoska will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u181	Thank you for your word. I would like to read the following proposal, which means that in § 17 para. 4 '31 December' is amended to '30 November'. This is because the new systemization must be clear before the day before it is effective. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u182	Mr Beznoska, Mr Zahradník will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u183	Thank you for the floor. Let me make another amendment to the House press 71/8 part 1/2 of the comprehensive amendment to the House press 71. In Article 27, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 the word to be added is replaced by the word to replace it. The written part of the administrative exam could replace the oral part, because there may be a larger number of applicants and, of course, the oral part would last disproportionately long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u184	Mr Zahradník, Mr Stanjura after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns Section 28 of the Act in question. This paragraph concerns the compilation and the work of a selection committee with three members, of which two members are proposed by the relevant Director of the Department and only one member should be appointed and recalled by the Secretary of State. So we're suggesting it's different. In order for the Director of the Department to belong only to the appointment of one member of the Commission. Finally, in the present case. 2 - We do not think it is necessary to draw up the order of all applicants as they succeeded at the selection committee, but only the order of the first five is sufficient. So the amendment to the House press 71/8 part 1/2 of the comprehensive amendment to the House press 71, the Service Act, reads as follows: 1. In accordance with Article 28 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 28 of the Treaty on the Functioning of 2. In accordance with Article 28 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 28 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The words "the first five most successful' shall be inserted between the words "the order' and "the applicants'. I've already explained the reasoning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u186	Mr Stanjura has the floor. Mr Karamazov will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u187	Thank you for the floor. Let me make an amendment to the bill we know under House press No. 71, namely: V § 41 se para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall be referred to as paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. This is the withdrawal of restrictions for the deadline for the submission of a repeated application for the test.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u188	Mr Karamazov. Mr Novotný will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u189	Dear colleagues, let me read the amendment to the House press 71/8 part 1/2 of the comprehensive amendment to the House press No. 71. It is a very simple proposal: § 33 is deleted. It's easy to break a service promise. The obligations result from the law, therefore the promise is merely a clown shop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u190	Mr Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the House press 71/8, etc. concerns the issue mentioned here in his speech by President Fiala, the irrationality of avoiding the possibility of repeating the administrative examination, particularly where someone would apply for a job at another office. This proposal is therefore intended to enable the possibility of this repetition and consists in a simple change - I will read it now: In § 41 para. 1 the last sentence "The official test may be repeated only once'. - the sentence is deleted; Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u192	Mr. Beznoska, Mr. Vilímec after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u193	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, let me make an amendment to House Press No. 71/8 part 1/2 of the comprehensive amendment to House Press No. 71. In Article 39 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 1 the number 21 is replaced by the number 30. The service body, in cooperation with the Directorate-General and the central administration, shall inform the civil servants in writing of the date and place of the administrative examination at least 30 days later before the day of the administrative examination. The application of a civil servant shall be taken into account when determining the term of the examination. It is a matter of sufficient time or sufficient time for the tenderer to be informed of the date of the relevant test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u194	Mr Vilímec, Mr Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me read the amendment to House Press No. 71/8, which consists in the abolition of the special part of the administrative examination and the exceptions which Section 37 of the draft law contains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u196	Ambassador, I'm very sorry. I'm asking the group on the right to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u197	The proposal reads: § 37 is new as follows: § 37 - First. The official examination shall be held in writing. The purpose of the administrative examination is to verify whether the civil servant has the necessary knowledge of the organisation and activities of the public administration, the rights and obligations and the rules of the ethics of the civil servant issued by the Staff Regulations of the Director-General, the knowledge of legislation generally affecting the activities of the public administration and the fundamental knowledge of the law of the European Union. The Directorate-General ensures that the administrative examination is carried out. [[20.30 hours]] Point two. An examination of the specific competence of an official of an official of an official self-governing body shall be considered to be equivalent to an official examination. So many new versions of § 37. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u198	I have Mr Plzák's point of order here. Wrong, okay, I'm erasing. Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have an amendment which has three points and concerns the composition of selection committees. It is probably the result of some compromise that will have more votes, whether officials or ministers. It's been handled so Solomonic, it looks like it's 50-50, but really, they have more officials. Well, I guess if it's meant to be, then it's meant to be. This means, let me read this amendment: 1. In Article 56 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: In the first sentence, "4 members' is replaced by "5 members' and in the second sentence, "4 members' is replaced by "5 members'. 2. In Article 56 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 6 the words "first five most successful" shall be inserted between the words "order" and "participants." 3. In Article 57, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 the words "first five most successful" shall be inserted between the words "order" and "participants." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u200	Mr Zahradník has the floor, followed by Mr Karamazov.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u201	Mr President, Dear Government, I am coming up with an amendment to the House of the Press, which we are discussing here and has the number 71/8, namely the 1/2 part of it, on a comprehensive amendment. This proposal concerns § 48, which refers to the possibilities of how a civil servant can be transferred. And the proposal is, let's just say, self-explanatory, so I'll just settle for reading it here. That's what the proposal sounds like. The following paragraph 6 is added to Section 48: "The transfer of a civil servant to another municipality for a period of more than 60 days is possible only with the consent of a civil servant'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u202	Mr Blažek. Sorry, I'm sorry, Mr Karamazov was signed in before Mr Blažek. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u203	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make another amendment to House press number 71/8, part number 1/2, a comprehensive amendment to House press 71. In Article 43, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 the number 8 is replaced by the number 10. This is a restriction on the posting of mothers with a child within 10 years of a business trip. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u204	Mr Blažek and Mr Novotný have the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u205	Thank you for the floor. I would like to read another amendment, namely: 1. In Article 53 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following provisions shall apply: 1 "7' is replaced by "5'. 2. In Article 53 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following provisions shall apply: 3 the words "to the age of 40' shall be deleted. 3. In Article 54, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 "7' is replaced by "5'. 4. In Article 54, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 the words "to the age of 40' shall be deleted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u206	Mr Novotný has the floor. Mr. Beznoska will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u207	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this amendment to the House press 71/8, the comprehensive amendment to the House press 71, is the issue of declaring the procedure in the event of an appeal by the Superior, and in the case of his own request, that is when the person no longer wants to perform this function. We believe there is no point in keeping him in this position for two months. The amendment is simple and reads as follows: In § 61 para. 2 "60' is replaced by "30'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u208	Mr Beznoska, Mr Stanjura after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u209	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, allow me to submit another amendment to the House press in question No 71/8, namely Part 1/2, of the comprehensive amendment to the House press No 71. It is Section 55, which deals with the appointment to the Secretary of State's post of service. In that first part, I would like to limit the term of office of the Secretary of State to five years. Thus, the original text "the Secretary-General shall be appointed by the Director-General for a period of 7 years on the basis of the results of the selection procedure' would be replaced by number 7 in number 5 and would read as follows: "the Secretary-General shall be appointed by the Director-General for a period of 5 years on the basis of the results of the selection procedure'. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 2, the new sentence would be as follows: The Selection Board has five members appointed and dismissed by the Director-General, of which three members on a proposal from the relevant Minister or Head of the Office of the Government. The issue is that the adjustment of the selection committee strengthens the position of the Minister. This means that the selection committee would not have originally proposed 4 members but newly 5 members. The third amendment concerns § 55 para. 6. It reads: "The selection committee shall draw up the order of participants who have succeeded in the selection procedure and a list of participants who have failed in the selection procedure. " Newly, this paragraph 55 (1) is not applicable. 6 sounded like this, respectively. between the words "order" and "participants," the words "first five most successful" would be inserted, or the announcement would be about the first five most successful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u210	Mr Stanjura, Mr Vilímec after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u211	Thank you for the floor. My amendment concerns savings in the public administration. The proposal proposes that every civil servant has a paid study leave of 6 days a year. It seems quite generous to us, we think that half is enough, so let me read exactly the text of this amendment: in § 110 para. 1 '6' is replaced by '3'. Really, once again, it is the granting of three days of paid study leave every year to every civil servant. We can compare it ourselves, which of you has ever worked in the private sphere, how many employers provide it to their employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u212	Mr Vilímec, Mr Blažek after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u213	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me read the amendment to House press number 71/8 of the Service Act. It's a proposal that narrows the number of degrees of service evaluation. Instead of the proposed four stages - excellent results, good results, sufficient results or unsatisfactory results - I propose only two degrees. The standard for the possibility of dismissal of a staff member in repeated failure is just the same one, the last stage, and these are unsatisfactory results. So now I'm going to read the amendment. [[There's an unbearable noise in the hall.]] Section 157, par. 4 is new: "The service evaluation must contain a conclusion as to whether the civil servant has achieved satisfactory results in the service; or -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u214	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I ask all those who do not follow the ODS amendments to withdraw outside the Chamber because the noise level is really unbearable and colleagues have the right to make their amendments in a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'll reload the relevant paragraph. Therefore, Article 157 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not apply to the application of Article 157 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 is new: "The service evaluation must contain a conclusion as to whether the civil servant has achieved satisfactory results in service (a) or (b) inadequate results'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u216	Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u217	Thank you for the floor. I have another amendment and it reads: § 76 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) is deleted. That's all. For the record - she sometimes took the letters - the letter h, you might expect, as they say humanly as something, that I say the word what I think of the law, so I won't say the word. [[Emphasises.]] And it's h like a Hamáček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u218	You want to cancel me, colleague. Mr. Zahradník. After that, Mr Karamazov.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u219	Mr President, Honourable Government, this amendment to Parliament's press 71/8 part 1/2, that is to say your comprehensive amendment, concerns paragraph 63 - inclusion outside the service for organizational reasons, which is generally known in speech as being on the obstacle. Here in this bill, this period is set for a maximum of 12 months, for which the civil servant receives 50 per cent of the monthly salary plus 10 per cent for each additional dependant. This is disadvantageous for them, it is also disadvantageous for his family and for the state. He should be looking for another job as quickly as possible, unless he's in the administration. Therefore, we propose that the period of 12 months be reduced to 6 months in § 63 and logically it is necessary to reflect this change also into § 74 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) where there is talk of termination of employment after the expiry of the period of inclusion outside the service for organisational reasons. So the amendment is as follows: One. In the first sentence of paragraph 63, number 12 is replaced by number 6. Two. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) number 12 is replaced by number 6. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u220	Mr Karamazov has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u221	I'm fixing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u222	Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u223	If you will allow me, Mr President, to correct the mistake that I made and to which I was warned by the author, for which I thank her. The second part of the proposal reads as follows: Paragraph 74 (1) (b). (e) "12" is replaced by "6." Thank you very much for your warning and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u224	Mr Karamazov has the floor now and Mr Beznoska will be prepared. Sorry, Mr Novotný will be ready, then Mr Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, let me read another amendment to the House press number 71/8 several times. Section 74, para. "On termination of service for an indefinite period on account of the reasons referred to in paragraph 1, point 2 shall read: (e) a civil servant shall be entitled to payment of disposals on a continuous period of service (a) not exceeding 6 years shall be payable at the rate of three times the monthly salary, (b) more than 6 years shall be payable at the rate of six times the monthly salary." As you have noticed, this is a limitation of severance, or sales, to a maximum of six salaries from the original twelve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u226	Mr Novotný has the floor, followed by Mr Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u227	Mr President, fellow Members, in this amendment, this is a solution to the issue of strict exclusion of the exercise of office in political parties for the newly introduced so-called leaders. We believe that, on the one hand, these are matters relating to the fundamental constitutional rights and freedoms of our country's citizens, and some conventions would lead to absurdities that the leader could not even perform the role of treasurer, that is completely unpolitical, in terms of the political content of an irrelevant function in a political party. The amendment is therefore very simple and reads: § 82 is deleted. It is precisely the paragraph that excludes the exercise of office in the political party for the newly introduced category of leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u228	Mr Beznoska, Mr Stanjura after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u229	Have a good evening again. Let me make an amendment to House press number 71/8 part 1/2 of the comprehensive amendment to House press number 71. There'll be more of these things this time, so I'm asking for more attention. It is the abolition of the Council of Civil Servants. This function is simply to be exercised by the unions, because they are long-standing in our legislation. Of course, inventing another body with the same powers is nonsense. If the union were not established in the Office, then of course these things are, matters with employees are discussed individually. Specific impact on the wording of this Act: Article 131 (1) (a) of the CRR Article 4 is deleted. In Part 8 Title 3 is deleted. In Article 142 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions apply: "Members of the Council of Civil Servants and representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service', including the comma, shall be deleted. In Article 142 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions apply: Article 2 (2) (b) is replaced by the following: "Council of civil servants or representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service', including the comma. [[20.50 hours]] In addition, Article 143 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty provides for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the first sentence, the words "or the In accordance with Article 143 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The second sentence of paragraph 1 shall be deleted from the words "or to the Council of civil servants and representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service'. In addition, Article 143 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty provides for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2. the words "elections of [[The quotes upstairs weren't said.]] In accordance with Article 143 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 3 the comma between the words "Commission" and "Members" shall be replaced by a liaison and the words "Members of the Councils of Civil Servants and representatives of civil servants for the safety and health protection of the performance of the service" shall be deleted. [[quotation marks upstairs were not mentioned]] In addition, Article 144 (3) of the Treaty provides that: 1 "The Council of civil servants and representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service shall be required' is replaced by "the Council of civil servants and representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service'. And for the tenth time, in § 143 para. 2. "Members of civil servants' and representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service" shall be deleted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u230	Mr Stanjura, Mr Blažek after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u231	Mr. Blažek, after me, even if you'd like him to get in. [[Noise in the hall.]] My amendment concerns the prescribed age for the first Director-General.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u232	I'll try it again -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u233	I have a stronger voice, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u234	[[He doesn't let himself go and interrupt the speech.]] So am I, but we're not gonna yell at each other here. He, Mr Blažek, will sit in his seat and not wander around the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u235	I would ask the MPs for the ČSSD not to disturb MPs for the ODS of Pavel Blažek... [[Smile in the hall.]] And I will return to my amendment. In this comprehensive amendment, the minimum age of the Director-General is determined and prescribed. We think it's useless. If we're applying to support young families, let's give at least one young family a chance where she or he becomes CEO and may not be forty years old. So the amendment reads: in Section 183 para. In the first sentence of the first sentence, the words "at the date of appointment they reached the age of 40 years' are deleted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u236	Mr Blažek has the floor now and Mr Vilímec will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u237	Thank you for the official word. I'm sorry for the words that weren't official. I'll be very simple, as always. And I propose and load another proposal: in § 188 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) '3' is replaced by '4'. [[The quotes upstairs weren't read.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u238	Mr Vilímec, Mr Zahradník will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u239	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me read from my side the last amendment to House press number 71/8 of the Service Act. The proposal consists in shortening the deadline for the first selection procedure to the director of the sections: V § 186 para. in the second sentence, "one year' is replaced by "six months' and "2016' is replaced by "2015'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u240	Mr Zahradník has the floor, followed by Mr Karamazov, who is the last member of the register so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u241	Mr President, my amendment concerns Section 193 of text number 71/8 of the comprehensive amendment to the Service Act. This section relates to the service conditions established under Sections 183 to 190, which describe the kind of recruitment of employees who have been employed in the state administration and who completed the 70th year of their age in the year of their creation. According to this section, this service is to cease, which is discriminatory. We do not like it, which is why we propose that this paragraph be repealed. The text of this proposal is simple and reads as follows: First. Section 193 is deleted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u242	Yes. And now here I have Mr Korte's factual remark, which, if he really wants to make a factual point, has two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u243	Thank you. I am very sorry, but I have not noticed the quotes on the amendment, which was loaded by my colleague Beznoska, where they are below and where they are upstairs. So I'm asking him to specify it and to read it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u244	Mr Karamazov has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, let me add the last of the amendments to the press already mentioned. It is a simple proposal and consists in the fact that in Section 168 noun 3, sorry noun "3" is replaced by the number "7." This is an extension of the deadlines for submitting applications for reimbursement of costs in proceedings from 3 to 7 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u246	Thank you. And... I'll set you up back there. It's about the fourth time there's been noise coming from the same place. And I'm not going to name it, but he knows very well who I mean. [[With a smile.]] I don't have another application for a detailed debate yet, so I'm gonna ask if anyone else is applying for it. No? Yes. Mr. Beznoska, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u247	Well, have a good evening again. When a colleague of the opposition, Mr Korte, called on me to clarify, I will just do it so that they are absolutely clear. Thank you. So I remind you, where I didn't quote quotes: In Article 142 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions apply: "Members of the Council of Civil Servants and representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service', including the comma, shall be deleted. In Article 142 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions apply: Article 2 (2) (b) is replaced by the following: "Council of civil servants or representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service', including the comma. In accordance with Article 143 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, In the first sentence, the words "or to the Council of civil servants and representatives of civil servants for the safety and health protection of the performance of the service' shall be deleted. In accordance with Article 143 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, In the second sentence, the words "or to the Council of civil servants and representatives of civil servants for the safety and health protection of the performance of the service' shall be deleted. In accordance with Article 143 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 2. the words "elections of members of civil servants' and representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service" shall be deleted. In accordance with Article 143 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 3 the comma between the words "Commission" and "Members" shall be replaced by a liaison and the words "Members of the Councils of Civil Servants and representatives of civil servants for the safety and health protection of the performance of the service" shall be deleted. [[21.00 hours]] A v § 144 para. 1 "the Council of civil servants and representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service shall be required" shall be replaced by "the Council of civil servants and representatives of civil servants for the protection of health and safety in the performance of the service." Last change: In § 144 para. 2. "Members of civil servants' and representatives of civil servants for safety and health in the performance of the service" shall be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u248	Mr Korte, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u249	I just want to thank my colleague Beznosk for the clarification, because now it's all very clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u250	Mr Stanjura is still in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will last today in this part of the debate. Let me read one more amendment, in § 2 para. (c) the Civil Aviation Authority, (l) the Institute for the Expert Examination of the Causes of Accidents, and the following shall then be remarked. I was talking about it in one of my previous performances. This concerns, in particular, commissioners who have to meet certain qualifications and at the same time the bill allows them to do a secondary activity which pays for these costs, which they have to do. For example, the minimum number of hours left on the prescribed machines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u252	I ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. If that's not the case, then detailed... [[A long-distance arrangement with Mr Kalousek in the hall.]] In a detailed debate or with priority rights? But that way I can end the detailed debate and then give you the floor. Okay, so I'm done with the detailed debate. With priority right, President Kalousek, and I would just like to point out that, after a detailed debate, we will vote on the proposal by Mr Klán, who proposed to return the committee's law to renegotiate after the end of the detailed debate. So now the chairman of the TOP 09 Club has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u253	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be slightly personal and I beg your pardon in advance. But we really care about making a deal. And we can't agree on the pasquila that's being presented here. We can agree on its adaptation, we can agree on a decent law for which 160 to 170 Members of this Chamber of Deputies will vote. And I think it would be a victory for parliamentary communication and mutual friendliness between the coalition and the opposition. We are ready for this, and again, for the last time this day - next time again, but for the last time, we stress this helpful hand. We are only asking you very much whether the proponents of this law or the Prime Minister could actually have the debate. If necessary, the Minister of the Interior, whose portfolio it falls into. I don't understand why the Minister of Human Rights is still involved. I understand that even civil servants have their human rights, but I don't think that the accent is so strong there that he should be the main spokesperson behind the government coalition. Perhaps if you realize who really is the promoter of this proposal and who is responsible for this law, we can come to an agreement much faster. That's just my polite request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u254	Minister Dienstbier wants to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u255	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but I must respond to Mr Kalousek's repeated indecency. He can dehonest whoever he wants. I think people know him very well, and they have a pretty clear opinion of him. His practices are well known. But if I'm doing some work for the government - and it wasn't entirely negligible work - on the Civil Service Act, it's because I'm not just the Minister for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, but also the Minister for Legislation and the Chairman of the Government Legislative Council. And since it was necessary to provide maximum legislative support for this law, that is precisely why I am expressing myself on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u256	Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u257	In general, and for the system. I am the last person to underestimate the Government Legislative Council and legislative support. I am the last person to underestimate the Government's Legislative Council and the legislative support for political decision-making. I just want to warn you, as an old matador after all, that the old pain and danger of legislative experts is an effort to enter into material matters. Legislative experts are meant to listen to political assignments and process this without protests. After that, there are legislators who believe that they are the ones who are meant to formulate the political tasks in question, which they then willingly process in legislative terms. I'm begging you very much that we can distinguish this from each other. The Government's Legislative Council guards the legislative purity of the political tasks that it does not do itself. And the legislation that tries to talk to us about political issues is a danger to democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u258	Since the Minister's speech means opening up the debate, I will now make Mr Blažek's point of order. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Really, too? So the first was Mr Kováčik, then Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u259	Thank you. Just for a little while. I would like to draw your attention, colleagues, to the proposal that we may still be voting on today, and this is a return to committees for a renegotiation after a detailed debate has taken place. Because dozens of amendments have been made here and these proposals need to be re-examined in the committees. In order to assess, among other things, what they were presented for. What's the bottom line is, it's a bit of a mess today. So please, if we really want to have a good law if we want to have a good law, if we don't want to be crazy again with some pasquila, we will allow and give enough room for these proposals to be re-examined and discussed in the committees. I'm a friend of us all to make a deal. As broad a deal as possible. And that number may even be greater than 160 Members of Parliament who have been mentioned here. Today, I think it is clear to everyone that such types of laws are simply impossible to do without opposition. And just a little something. Minister Dienstbier is also Minister for Minorities. Suppose the officials aren't most in this country, so it belongs to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u260	A point of fact, Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u261	Thank you for the floor. I would also respond to Minister Dienstbier. You know, you're basically showing us around here today, and basically nobody's taking it away from you that you've given it some time, that you have a lot of knowledge about it. But your performance tonight filled one classic sentence that I remembered, which was said by the good old Hérakleitos. And the sentence is, he doesn't teach much of the knowledge of wisdom. [[21.10 hours]] You may have shown a lot of knowledge today, but you've progressed so unwisely that even those who didn't have anything against you have so much to do after today. [[Fun in the hall. Let's hear it from the right.]] And if you wanted to enforce that law in any way, you did everything you could, and maybe for personnel reasons, so that many people wouldn't want that law. So I would ask that next time less knowledge and more wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u262	Mr Stanjura. Also with a factual remark? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u263	I will not quote any classics, but I will turn to the Rules of Procedure. That's a really dry reading. And I want to ask why the rapporteur or one of the petitioners did not look after the detailed debate. There have been dozens and dozens of amendments, but the basis has not been taken by a comprehensive amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee, which is normally a good way to go. I am glad that you have understood that this will not be the case, that we do not have to worry about it in a procedural way, that it will be repeated, that we will eventually vote on another proposal. You could have told us sooner. We could have voted two hours ago and we did not have to load our amendments for two hours. But I'll take that as your conscious tactic. In doing so, you knew that it was okay, because in the end, as a comprehensive amendment to the IDA, it would not be taken as a basis, and it would not really be voted on at third reading. And I don't want to mention much about the support of the Legislative Council of the Government and all the people of Minister Dienstbier. I asked 23 questions, and I got zero answers. Well, I guess the support isn't online.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-16-ps2013-012-02-002-006.u264	I have no further application, so I am ending the debate and there is only one thing left to do on this point. Assuming there is no interest in the final words - I have not noticed interest in the final words, so we will vote on Mr Klánek's proposal. I checked you all out. A new registration, please. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr Klán suggested that this bill be returned to the committee for renegotiation. I'm gonna ring the bell one more time. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with Mr Klán's proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 12, registered is 156, for 67, against 79. This proposal has not been adopted. I believe that we have exhausted this point, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal and, at the same time, on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, today's meeting and interrupting the meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Have a good evening and see you tomorrow.
