ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 72/2000 Coll., on investment incentives and on the amendment of certain laws (the Act on Investment Incentives), as amended, and other related laws /German press 302/ - first reading I will ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek to stay at the rapporteur's table. I ask that Mr Martin Novotný take the position at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur for first reading. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will present the proposal. Minister, please, you have the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the Ministry of Industry and Trade material presented for today's meeting for discussion. This is a proposal for an amendment to the Investment Incentives Act, which includes a related amendment to the Income Tax Act, the Employment Act and the Real Estate Tax Act. The material was prepared in particular following the adoption of new European rules on public support. From the point of view of investment incentives, the two most important changes are the new regulations. Firstly, the reduction in the permissible regional public aid intensity in the Czech Republic to 25 per cent of the eligible costs compared to the previous 40 per cent. In some surrounding countries, this aid can currently reach up to 50 per cent, for example in Hungary and Bulgaria. It is also, for example, a limitation of the block exemption for aid schemes with an annual aid amount of over 150 million. EUR, where investment incentives fall. These aid schemes must be further evaluated on the basis of an evaluation plan approved by the European Commission. In response to these facts, a bill was prepared which adapts the system of investment incentives for new European rules for providing public support while contributing to maintaining the competitiveness of the Czech incentive system in international competition. In particular, the proposed bill will extend the regions for providing material support for the creation of new jobs, as well as the retraining and training of employees. Increase in the maximum capital aid ceiling for strategic investment actions. The introduction of a new form of investment incentive, exemption from real estate tax in preferential industrial zones. Also to improve the accessibility of incentives to technological centres and strategic services projects. The proposed measures will make it easier for investors to draw on the aid, speed up the return on investment supported, thereby increasing the attractiveness of the entire incentive system. However, even with these changes, the actual drawing-up of investment incentives cannot exceed the amount determined according to the current regional aid map, which is 25 per cent of the eligible costs for large enterprises. Thus, compared to the previous period when the aid intensity was allowed to up to 40 per cent, the State's commitments will be reduced. Moreover, the State's liabilities will be offset in contrast by increasing labour market revenues and indirect taxes. [[12.20 hours]] Following the changes, we expect the creation of more than ten thousand new jobs per year, while making investments of 43 billion. Crowns. This corresponds to a maximum aid amount of 11.6 billion. Crowns. The effectiveness of incentives for the state will also be monitored by the European Commission in the form of evaluation. The European Commission confirmed the possibility for the MIT to continue with the investment incentive scheme under the block exemption as an over-limit aid scheme, but provided that the aid was regularly assessed according to the evaluation plan sent to the European Commission for approval. The draft law will further implement measures aimed at reducing the administrative burden on applicants, increasing legal certainty for beneficiaries and improving the flexibility of the entire system. I would therefore like to ask you for the support of this law and its release for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u3	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek and ask that the rapporteur present his report for first reading by Mr Martin Novotný. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister said in his introductory words, this amendment is largely of a transposition nature. However, I believe that the consequences of these transpositions are so crucial in the field of public support that it is insufficient to limit ourselves only to the debate that we are discussing the new conditions of European legislation. The amendment under discussion regulates one specific area, the so-called public support. With this term, we have learned in recent years to call the eurolanguage the issue of regulating public actors' inherence through public funds into free competition between economic operators on the market. In this case, it is therefore the regulation of various forms of investment support through so-called investment incentives. Compared to the current legislation, the amendment primarily represents the implementation of two amended European regulations, namely a new general regulation on so-called. on block exemptions, General Block Exemption Regulation, and a new regional aid map for the years 2014 to 2020, which reduces the limits still in force in this area for the regions of the Czech Republic in such a significant way that it is necessary not only to say this but also to underline and emphasize it. [[He said, "Twelve."]] As in other areas of public aid regulation for investment incentives, the legislative model provides for exceptions to the general principle of prohibition of public aid, in the form of volume limits and other conditions. The simplified wording can be seen as a further tightening of the conditions of public support by the basic two innovations implemented by the amendment of the earlier European regulations. Compared to the existing definition of the block exemption, the volume limit is 150 million. EUR per year under which the aid is granted without the need for further assessment by the European Commission. The higher level of support implies the notification process by far more stringent conditions. As regards the limitation by means of the regional aid map, there is also a tightening of the limit for individual regions of the Czech Republic, following their current categorization according to the bands established according to the percentage of GDP per capita relative to the average of the EU, from the current limit of 40 per cent to the above 25 per cent. The reason report summarises the development of the investment incentive system in the Czech Republic, their forms, various forms of granting discounts and active financial support and a summary of the annual balances in this area. However, I consider it the most important that we find quantification in that balance sheet view, but there is still a quantification of the expected benefits, i.e. quantification of the expektations at the time. In the report, I generally lack a deeper analysis of the real effects and the success of the system, which is crucial for assessing its new settings for the next period. The report further contains a kind of longer detailed comparison of individual options of possible solutions from zero to preferred option, which is marked by number two. This is an amendment to the Investment Incentives Act under the General Block Exemption Regulation, which I have already mentioned here. [[There's noise in the room.]] I assume that these aspects of individual solutions will be discussed in detail on the Economic Committee and in the framework of further reading of the law. Personally, however, I consider the absence of a thorough SWOT analysis, efficiency and effectiveness of the investment incentive system to be so essential to the explanatory value and qualitative assessment of this amendment that I will - and also because of the general ideal disagreement with the whole system of European public support regulation as such - propose a return to the government for recasting the amendment. In this context, I have many question marks particularly around the quantification of the impact of the amendment on the state budget, especially with regard to expected revenue strengthening the revenue side of the budget, i.e. the projected overall positive balance of the application. At the same time, I have a realistic point that I expect the House as a whole to take a traditional position on the proposal, which the House takes on the implementation of European legislation and its instruments, that is, an approach according to the motto 'if so, already', and I expect that, despite my proposal for recasting, we will have room in the Economic Committee to discuss the detailed items of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mr Michal Kučera's written application. Please, Mr. Ambassador. So far, the only one registered for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u6	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about this amendment to the law. I think that much has been said in particular from the rapporteur, but I would like to add a few words. The amendment responds to the new Commission Regulation No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is commendable that this regulation has been translated so quickly into the amendment of the law, because the regulation is, I believe, June of this year. What is not commendable, however, are other passages that we have mentioned in this amendment. That means what the harmonisation part is, the reaction to the new regulation, that's okay, and it can't be done any other way. However, what is beyond harmonisation is, and it is already becoming quite traditional here, very debatable and I must say that it does not deserve the support of Members of the TOP 09. From the most problematic points, I remove the proposal for the establishment of so-called special economic zones, in the first stage implemented through the so-called preferential industrial zones, which will have a higher level of support than other industrial zones. This is to be the so far vacant industrial zones in economically weak regions. In the Moravian-Silesian region there are three such favorable zones, one in the Zlín Region and one in the Ústí Region. I would really like to point out here that this is the relative preference of the Moravian-Silesian Region over the other regions, that is, in front of the Ústecký Region or the Zlín Region. It is quite striking, and I do not really know what led the Ministry to this support, although it only explicitly appears in the explanatory report, not in its own text of the law. Generally, the introduction of special economic zones is a way back a few decades. It is a systematic violation of the principles of equal opportunities and equal conditions in business. Even in the explanatory report, some countries are retreating from them. Hungary is retreating from them. And I'm sorry that the Minister of Finance is not here because Croatia is retreating from them. [[Laughs in the right side of the hall.]] [[12.30 hours]] Specially economic zones are used where they are unable to create systemically good conditions for business across the whole state. It is, for example, in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. It is a dead end with a significant risk to existing business entities in the economically weak regions concerned, which is not even mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, let alone evaluated. Another important point that I would like to mention here, which I would like to point out, is that, in addition to the existing aid methods, the amendment introduces the possibility of real estate tax relief for up to five years. Although it is possible to forgive the property tax only with the consent of the municipality, it is an inadequate intervention in the competence of municipal authorities. At the same time, it is a typical example of a distortion of equal conditions, because an entrepreneur in an industrial zone will pay a property tax less or will not pay a property tax than an entrepreneur who will reside in the street next door. I believe that we will deal with these reservations that I have made here today in the Economic Committee and will deal with these comments in the Economic Committee for the benefit of the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u7	I thank Mr Michal Kučer and ask who else to debate. Mr President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and I assume that the rapporteur who has the proposal will then be heard. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u8	I'd like to underline my previous speaker's performance, because it's just a theory that the village would disagree. Let us remember the pressure of the state authorities at the moment when he is an excellent investor and now the last thing he wants is an exemption from property tax. I can already see the council's really free to decide whether or not they're gonna take their income. I think that this is a matter of the state, and we should not mix in taxes that are 100% of the income of municipalities. It's a difficult tax holiday, so be it, but it's a state. They're shared taxes and stuff. The real estate tax is 100% the income of the municipality. It is already very difficult to find an agreement in the village on how tall it should be. It's a fairly complicated thing, coefficients, local coefficients and complex. However, I want to say that this is not a negligible income in the municipalities. And that's how it means either the minister or some deputy or some clerk comes in front of the council and says, "Well, do you want a hundred or two jobs here or don't want to? Well, make up your mind." I think it would be much better if it wasn't in it at all. These amounts are not so abundant and much better we should consider aid in general, if they are to be at all, where, according to the zoning plan, the area of industry is. I think it's much better than dividing the industrial areas into the chosen and the unselected. That actually has a link -- if you remember, we have, I think, change in the Economic Committee, or not just in the Economic Committee, the Land Exemption Act from the Agricultural Soil Fund. There is talk again about selected or preferred industrial zones. Many of us spoke about this in the first reading of the bill. I don't think we should do that. As far as possible when we want to give, and unfortunately we are not completely free because our competitors in the surrounding countries also offer investment offers, I think that is the relevant argument, but we should not divide and prefer only a few again. Of course, if someone prefers the Moravian-Silesian Region, I have nothing against it as a member of this region, but apart from the three industrial zones mentioned in the explanatory report, there are other areas of industry. If we prefer three, the other cities and other municipalities will have worse room for attracting investors on their territory. And if the council decides not to collect property tax, they can do that today. It doesn't need to be in the Investment Incentives Act, it's a free decision by every council, whether and to what extent the property tax will be set. So I would really put in a good word for it, and I hope that the Minister will consider these arguments so that it is not an incentive instrument at all, that we separate the state's approach when it attracts investors, and I would not involve any authority of the municipal council. We would also have to see some quantification. No doubt the exemption fee is much higher than the property tax. On the other hand, it is some compensation for the municipality when the real estate tax is written there and paid. These are the sources from which public transport, lighting, cleanliness in the city can be solved, etc. So it would be a terrible shame to take that authority away from the municipalities. I hear the objection that it is with the approval of the municipality, but I have described the case that the representatives will not really feel comfortable and will not have a free decision at the moment when the state will push them and say: if you approve, the investor will, if you do not approve... I don't know why it even occurred to us if this is really a problem for investors. If so, the Minister may have some figures on whether investors, who are here, are already complaining about the amount of property tax, and how much of it will be collected or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u9	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I state the apologies of Mrs Olga Havlová from 14:00 a.m. to a full day and of Mrs Fiedler from 12:00 a.m. to 13:00 a.m. My colleague Běhounek apologizes until tomorrow. We continue with Mr František Laudát's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u10	Thank you. I'm afraid if they come here, Minister, laws like this, you're incredibly taunting and creating space for enormous corruption pressures, in this case, for municipalities and cities. Really transpose the European directives, what we must and what is rational, but what you are adding - I know it is government policy, but it is a deadly policy for the future. You guys were just setting yourselves up to fight corruption, but you're creating an opportunity here. The corruption will always be dependent on what opportunities you create. I know that you're voting here, the TOP 09 will support the proposal - I don't know if it's overwork or what's been done here, overwork and return, it doesn't matter if these things go away, and we don't have a problem with the transposition of the European directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u11	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr Urban's proper application now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, it must be said that the dominant person who decides whether there will be an industrial zone in any territory is the municipality, not the state, the investor who makes use of the incentive law. It is not that the state decides against the will of the village to build an industrial zone somewhere. On the contrary. Once it happened to me historically, a mayor came to me and said, "We don't want it there." I said, "Mr. Mayor, you made me happy, we're less busy." So this myth doesn't really apply. The municipality is a decisive link in whether or not industrial zones are invested without or with incentives from individual investors. First of all. Secondly, there's a little bit of a thing about why some zones - they used to be called strategic zones - now they're some economic zones - why it's there. This is not there because it is a policy of social democracy, although it is a policy of social democracy to try to create new jobs, but it is there because the directive allows, in certain cases, for a certain advantage to be taken against the general official arrangement or description of the directive. Thus, where the zone is economical or strategic, there can be used higher possibilities against the European directive than in the case of others. Of course, we can have a debate about it, that it should apply equally to everyone, but we also don't have investors here that we could put in the same bag. There are simply interested strategic and perhaps less strategic. This also applies to individual regions in the Czech Republic. The fact that it is not somehow organized all over the country at the moment, that each region does not have an economic or strategic zone in this proposal, that is also due to history, because basically strategic zones exist and tilts only by nomenclature or concept in the law, so that it can be used without reproach by the European Union some parameters. So don't look in this case that we're more skater than Brussels. This may be true in this case, but it is in favour of the Czech Republic. That needs to be considered from my point of view. If it's real estate tax - it's definitely a question of debate, I think it is. But if, in certain cases, the European directive allows us to do so, and the first and last right is the municipal council, then I do not see the problem at all, although I feel a little bit of it as the debate has been suggested here. [[12.40 hours]] I think, and I will also underline, that, on the contrary, the analysis that the rapporteur here mentioned, the benefits, not only in terms of jobs, but, say, he gave, where the state relieved the tax or contributed to the construction of the zone, and the benefits of the state budget, the creation of jobs, I think it is really worth the analysis to do, because I am sure that such an analysis will prove that it was a historically correct decision, given that, of course, such systems exist in the surrounding states, but even if it were not in the surrounding states, I am sure that it will be shown that this will be a sign plus not only for the state budgets, but also for the citizens of the Czech Republic. It is difficult, but I think that CzechInvest has these analyses at its disposal and that they are worth putting forward during the discussion on the Economic Committee. Based on facts, numbers, we can talk about how the system has historically contributed to the development of the economy and employment in the Czech Republic. But I am inclined to make the request that the rapporteur has made here come true, because this analysis, in my opinion, is a good part of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u13	Thank you, honourable Member. With a point of fact, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u14	I would take advantage of a factual comment on one particular and factual question about the Minister. It doesn't seem to me that we have a form for the application of an investment offer, which is a relatively long form, as an annex to the law. I don't know why it's there. I understand that the Ministry or CzechInvest will then set up a form, but the moment we put it into law and change something, anything that turns out in a year or two that we need there, we're going to have to amend the law. I think it's nothing, and it would be worth letting it out of the law and leaving the form under the authority of those who will organize and negotiate with potential investors and companies who will want to use the Investment Incentives Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u15	Thank you for keeping time. I will ask who is next reporting for the debate. [[This is the minister.]] The Minister will, of course, have the final word if he asks for it. Okay. So it's going to be in the form of a final word. I have here a remark from my colleague Filip that he did not fall from the rapporteur, but the proposal for a return to work has been mentioned. If you want to apply it, Mr rapporteur, you must now be in the debate. I'll take that as an application for a debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I actually said that in my opening words in some sort of waiting mode, so now I'm going to fill the expected mode. I would like to recommend that the House, by its resolution, return this draft amendment to the Government for completion. There's been a lot of reasons here. I consider them relevant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u17	Thank you. I take it as a proposal from the House to return the proposal submitted for completion. Mr Bendl properly or really? It's really enough, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u18	I'll be fine with the two minutes, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share my experience, as I have put several industrial zones into operation during my time in public administration. I've even been with some since the beginning, since the approval of the zoning plan and so on. I would like to recommend one thing. I think that at the moment that law changes the rules of the game during the period when the investment incentives are underway, we will also fundamentally change the basis for potential investors for what we support them in and in which we do not. There's not enough pressure here as it used to be for new investment incentives. I think it would be a good idea for the state to focus more on existing industrial zones, to pay attention to them, to clean them up, to help rid them, to say environmental burdens and so on, and not to change and bring more and more new terms, such as strategic industrial zones and so on. I don't understand. Somewhere, strategically, simply speaking, can help a small community bring in an investor who employs 20 to 50 people, and it does not have to be in the Act on investment incentives and the like. I would ask that we do not complicate the situation, rather simplify and make general rules, and not exceptions for individual regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u19	Thank you. I'll ask who else is reporting for the debate. If no one reports, I will end the debate. I will ask the rapporteur and the Minister if they are interested in final words. First the Minister and then the rapporteur. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure your fellow Members from the right-wing parties that yes, this proposal is indeed not ideally pure, it is not ideologically consistent with your concepts. But unfortunately, he doesn't respond to almost anything in the world. We had a prime minister here who later became president, who always told us to learn in the United States, where the government also doesn't give any investment incentives. Yes, then the Prime Minister was right, the federal government of the United States doesn't give any investment incentives. That's right. But a large number of investment incentives to achieve exactly what we want are given by the governments of the states of the American Union, giving large cities. It's all very different there. You may like or dislike the incentives, but we simply live in a world where our competitors use the incentives. And we came up with this law not primarily because we need some harmonisation, but because we want to maintain our country's competitiveness in gaining foreign investment, because in a globalised world, we are mostly living in the way that an investor comes and starts to explore three locations, one in Slovakia, one in Poland, one in the Czech Republic, travels between these locations and tries to get the most favourable conditions and communicate what the other party has to offer. The result of this negotiation process is either that we obtain an investment or that we do not. Since 1 July, our conditions have changed compared to our main competitors, this is against Poland and Slovakia. The European Commission has recounted gross domestic product per head and found that we have already fallen into a different category. This means that the maximum aid is now 25 per cent, in Slovakia and Poland remained 40 per cent. And this amendment is an effort to show some flexibility and to provide some other instruments so that we can get those investments. I must say that I do not fully understand the debate about the municipalities that have been raised here. On the one hand, the argument that the state would push and the community would do it is simply not true, just because we tried. We tried it in Brno, where I spent seven hours at the city council of Brno and the council decided at least 2,000. Amazon's logistics centre is not interested in jobs. I suggest you take a look at the election results. Let each one evaluate this lesson for himself. So can any other community. I would like to say that the amount of money does not matter with the municipalities. He won't really be that big. The village has a chance to refuse, the village doesn't have to do it. However, the investor who comes will tell you a simple thing. He doesn't want to go to a community that will be hostile, which the investment will not like either for those reasons or for those reasons. Just because he comes to a neighbouring country or another region and finds communities that have a more positive attitude. So, in this case, it is rather a signal that the municipality has the political will to make an investment, because, as my colleague Urban has already said here, it requires not only the will of the central government, but also local authorities, whether municipalities or regions. We also have examples where this will was not and the investment simply did not take place. It was an attempt by the Finnish company Milikoski to build a paper mill in Opatovice. Neither Pardubický nor Královéhradecký kraj nor the cities, and the municipalities did not want this in principle. As a result, Milikoski prepared the investment simultaneously in Opatovice and at the same time a piece of our border in Bavaria. When he found out there was no will, he built a paper mill in Bavaria and, of course, there is firewood from the Czech Republic, without sharing in employment. So in the open world, it's an open choice, and this law just gives you the opportunity to do it or not to do it. [[12.50 hours]] I also don't understand words about not changing the rules of the game on the move. I'd prefer it, too, but it's just that there's been a higher power that we've fallen into a different category, and we have to respond to that. And, of course, when someone signs an investment agreement, the investment agreement works according to the conditions that were in force at the time of its signature. Therefore, there was such an interest in signing investment contracts between investors in May and June of this year, because they knew when it ended by 30 June, so they would work under better conditions. As far as President Stanjura's recommendation on forms is concerned, I will give this serious thought. I think you are right, Mr President, through Mr President, and we will remove it from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u21	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur, the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u22	Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank all the speakers for the interesting suggestions for further debate in the Economic Committee. I just want to say that the Minister responded to the idea of abhorrence. Something else has been said from my mouth, and that is an ideal disagreement with the concept of public support at all, as regulated by the European Union, this is with the arbitrary setting of various limits, their lack of justification, their existence at all, etc. That's a little different than the very subset of the debate on investment incentives as such. In particular, I would like to appreciate Mr Urban's appearance in terms of awards from the opposition ranks in relation to the Coalition Member, and I firmly believe that we should ensure that we are actually familiar with the economic committee, in writing, with some analytical material that would assess the experience of the system. Personally, I am convinced - we will see what the balance sheet number of such analytical material will be - that we would find a number of specific cases where the question is whether these measures were effective, whether they were actually directed into strategic areas and not, perhaps, a random decision. We'll see, we'll make sure the material is heard. With regard to the subject, say, the sensitivity of municipalities, municipalities, the possible inclusion of real estate tax as one of those forms, it is important to understand that, after many and many years, municipalities are actually very and very sensitive to any other forms of transfer of responsibility for national strategic matters from the centre to the municipality. The strengthening of the share of mandatorial spending in municipal budgets, the long-term development in the area of RUD, except for those small municipalities, may have led to increasing tensions in the budgets of municipalities, and the tax on real estate, through its double-edgedness, where on the one hand it allows income to be raised, on the other hand, often leads to the pissing off of local residents, when the revenues are obtained too heavily, is one of the few instruments of a kind of fiscal autonomy for municipalities. And precisely because there are very few, I fear that municipalities can be very sensitive and not very happy about this measure in specific cases. It is something else to promote economic development in the form of spatial planning and something else to be directly linked to those financial mechanisms. Indeed, for years and years we experience that what is not able to solve the center, it transfers in a certain amount to municipalities and those municipalities have no place to take money for it. So much for my final word, and I expect the debate to be interesting in the following readings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u23	Thank you, but I still have a priority right or a request for a performance with priority rights - President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u24	It is a pity that you did not let the Minister speak as he wanted and put him on the final floor. But we didn't have an ideal or ideological dispute here, nor did it come out of my mouth. We had really, I would say, material comments. The reservation of municipalities - I understand that the municipality has a territorial plan in its hands, then it comments on the territorial procedure, the building permit. But I was thinking of just pulling a tax out of that investment incentive tool, whose income is 100% the income of the community. This does not mean that the municipality - it may happen that the municipality wants the investor, it creates a territorial plan, gives a positive opinion in the territorial proceedings and building permits, but it also wants to collect property tax quite logically because it uses it to serve its property. There doesn't always have to be state communications, there can be special purpose communications, public lighting, etc. That means I'm gonna make out of those economics. [[unintelligible]] And if memory doesn't deceive me - I have therefore compared the numbers, if the investors complain, if you don't catch my word - but I feel that the national real estate tax return is about nine or nine and a half billion in all the municipalities, actually from all over the territory, because each square metre belongs to a village except for military hikes. That's why we don't consider it such an important item, and that's why I asked if there was any experience from investors saying: we wouldn't like to pay real estate tax, or it's just the idea of our ministry to expand the range of instruments, but then it's at the expense of municipal budgets. That's what I'm saying. And so far, the investment incentives have largely gone from state level to state level. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr Urban and I were planning a successful industrial zone together many years ago. He was the Minister of Industry and Trade at the time, and I was a member of the Regional Council, and I think the cooperation was pragmatic. We saved our ideas for the theoretical debate. Even in my speech, I said that we understand that we cannot be the only ones to say that we will not be in competition with the surrounding countries that use investment incentives. I'd just lean a little against the interpretation, because the minister said we failed. The Czech Republic has fallen somewhere and therefore has a lower level of support. The interpretation is exactly the opposite. We are more successful and we are richer, which is why we are entitled to a lower percentage of support under the European rules. So it's not a flop. I really am. Many politicians here perform as everything goes wrong, for 25 years nothing goes well, but here is clear economic evidence, unlike our neighbors who have not jumped, which means in the interpretation of the Minister they did not fail, they will be entitled to higher support because they are economically weaker. That's how you interpret the numbers. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr. Chairman, this is really...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u25	Yes, I'm sorry. I want everyone to know I'm gonna call a break at one o'clock, so please hang in there, we're gonna try to finish this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u26	I'm definitely not gonna stretch my act. I think it is still necessary to vote on the commandment, it was not my intention to delay negotiations until 13.01. or 13.02. I'd just like to ask the Minister not to say that we've failed, because the degree of participation, virtually. why the amount of investment incentives is lower is because we are more successful than our neighbours. Am I wrong? I don't think I'm wrong. The Czech Republic has not fallen anywhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u27	That was President Stanjura with priority rights. The debate has been closed, the final words have been put forward, so we only have to vote. The rapporteur proposed that this press be returned to the applicant for completion. That's the vote we're going to decide right now. I will therefore begin the vote and ask who agrees that this press be returned to the applicant for completion. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote is 92, registered 170, for 36, against 82. This proposal has not been adopted. So we will consider the draft of the commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Economic Committee. I'll ask if there's another proposal. It's not like that. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees that we order this press to the Economic Committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? In vote number 93 registered 171, for 155. I note that we have ordered this press to the Committee of Economics, and I am ending its discussion. It worked out beautifully, one hour, so I'm going to interrupt the House of Deputies. Meet me again at 2:30. At the same time, I warn the members of the Organising Committee that this committee will meet five minutes after the meeting is interrupted, i.e. at 13.05 in permanent premises. Enjoy your meal and I'll see you in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-29-ps2013-019-05-005-021.u28	Good afternoon, my dear colleagues, I wish you a good time after lunch. We will continue with the next item on our agenda, which is:
