ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended /house print 215/ - third reading The amendment is set out in the Houses of the Press 215/2. I am opening a debate in which I have no written application. This is the President, Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called green oil has one goal, to make our farmers competitive, and that is certainly a commendable target. Of course, what is the reason for the refund of excise duty on diesel? There is no doubt high excise duty and it reduces competitiveness not only for farmers, but for all companies and businessmen throughout the Czech Republic. So if we understand the need to reduce excise duty on farmers, how is it that we do not want to see the liquidation effects of a high tax in other areas? If we vote on an exemption for farmers, please imagine, hypothetically, each of you, that we would reduce the excise duty on fuel across the board by some 30% to 50 percent. What would happen? Yes, according to statistics, a theoretical decrease in tax collection can be calculated. But the practice would be dramatically different. A rapid decrease in fuel prices would also mean a sharp increase in their sales. Like our chauffeurs today... [[One of the Members is behind the speaker's back and is talking to one of the ministers.]] Please, just if you wouldn't be behind my back, I can't concentrate. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u3	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to interrupt you just a little longer. I'll ask the House for peace so that you can present your contribution safely. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u4	So if we were to reduce the gross fuel tax, it would mean in practice that fuel prices would be reduced in a very strong way, which would mean a significant increase in their sales. Just as our chauffeurs are fueling abroad today, the foreigners would be mass-fueling with us. The reduction in the price of transport would be reflected in the prices of virtually all goods in the Czech Republic. A fall in prices means an increase in the value of real wages and pensions. Thus, even without increasing pensions and wages, the state would really increase their purchasing power and thus the standard of living of its citizens. The so-called multiplier effect is immense in this. For this reason, in the Úsvit movement, we support Mr Urban's amendment from the ČSSD, and we, of course, personally propose a reduction in excise duty on diesel fuel for a long time, and I have also spoken about it in the election campaign. As many know, and some may at least suspect in our government, the aim of our efforts in Dawn is not to cut or rewrite figures in the budget, but to move our country's economy. And this is where we're starting to break up a little bit. In this respect, it is necessary to give so-called green diesel to all citizens of the Czech Republic. Believe that the country will not lose, and I would also ask you to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u5	Thank you, Mr Tomie Okamur. In addition to the debate, Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. TOP 09 will vote against. We believe that farmers can send the money in a completely different way so that the tax system is not obscured. What we're seeing is a huge problem is that it's a business for tax evasion. It is precisely contrary to what the Minister of Finance said. So we paid the political tax for pushing for the abolition of green oil, you're introducing it again. It is your right, but I just want to say why we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u7	Thank you. Now, Mr Radim Fiala in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u8	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly to green oil. Ladies and gentlemen, our position on green oil is - let us not be more papal than the Pope. As long as other farmers in most European Union countries have privileges and privileges as they do today, we have a choice. Either we support ours a little, too, or we don't stand in competition and we just lose our own agricultural production. I think it's more than clear today that our agriculture is failing. It's sinking all the time. Now we are not discussing whether we want to be self-sufficient in some commodities, but its share in the economy is constantly decreasing. It is also about the maintenance of our Czech landscape. It is the food safety of the Republic and, above all, it is more than 100 thousand. jobs that are mostly located in locations where there is no alternative employment option anymore. This is mainly about the Czech countryside. Of course, it would be best if our tax system contained as few exceptions and bureaucratic loops as possible, but if we do not have a refund on the excise duty on diesel to farmers today, the so-called green diesel, it may happen one more time that tomorrow we will not have so many farmers. Once the crop, the second fall in world prices, several times in the decade, our farmers, together with their colleagues from other countries, face a threat of extinction, and our country must not allow it to be those of our citizens working in agriculture who will go out this time from the wheel of European competition. I remember when Minister Jurečka came into office and the media asked us if the Úsvit movement would support green diesel, and we said as we did today that, in competition with the nearest European countries, which are neighbours of the Czech Republic, we cannot do this to farmers to prepare a competitive trap for them that they would simply get into by abolishing green oil. So the Úsvit movement will be for Czech agriculture, it will be for Czech farmers and it will be for green oil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u9	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl has now volunteered, then Mr Milan Urban. With priority rights? I will ask both colleagues to be patient, with priority rights President Pavel Kováčik. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I've logged all three applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've had my hand up there for a long time, but your eyes were somewhere else, which I don't blame you, you can't see everything. I would like to give the opinion of the KSČM MEP on the issue of green diesel very briefly. And even if it's very short, I'll start with history. It won't be wide. Our approach to subsidies. You know, she's kind of a subsidy to green oil. If I forgive somebody's tax, I actually subsidize them. We can imagine a world without subsidies. We can imagine a Europe without subsidies. We can imagine the Czech Republic without subsidies. I'm talking about agriculture, just to be clear. But it would have to be the whole world for the Czech Republic to be without subsidies. It would have to be at least the whole of Europe so that the Czech Republic could exist without subsidies. And in that situation, given the quite detailed state of Czech agriculture, the Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmer would be king at least on the European market and we would not have to solve various problems. However, if our co-competitive farmers in other countries of the European Union are heavily subsidized, whether from European or national budgets, if they have various concessions here on social and health insurance, such as Poland, the one on diesel, the other on that basis, the KSČM MP will support all interventions that will help Czech, Moravian and Silesian small, medium and large farmers. Because we can be comforted to have a single European Union market. Yes, we do. But we have different starting conditions in different countries. Our aim is to ensure that the starting conditions for all farmers throughout the European Union are at least about the same or similar, so that the Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmer, the woodsman, the pondman may not feel somewhat discriminated against. And despite the fact that their production - I also talk about food companies - is qualitatively not only comparable to the European top, but it is at the top of Europe, so that they do not feel that, despite their quality, that they produce healthy, that they produce tasty, that they can pack well, that they can do everything at a high European level, so unequal conditions on the so-called. The single market condemns them into the role of outsiders. I want to say that the KSČM member club considers the return of green oil to farmers fair and therefore supports them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Petr Bendl in the debate, then Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u12	Thank you for the floor. Let me also make a few comments on the so-called. green oil. I want to stress again what happened here at the second reading debate that we will never measure whether oil is poured into a tractor or into a personal car. That's the first point you need to know about. A second point that you should all know about because it is across the political spectrum: Individual political actors had support in their priorities e.g. animal production, etc. And this is about 1.4 billion. The crowns that we pour into the system and which - and you need to know it too - you will help above all large, because those small amounts are definitely not significant. And if you speak to small farmers, they will tell you what you said often before the elections: We want to support small and medium-sized enterprises and we want to support animal production in particular. Here you support, above all, pouring the maximum diesel into the tractors and cultivating the thousand-hectare ropes to target financial support from, say, 1.4 billion. CZK until direct support for livestock production. Because there - for a fellow speaker or foreman - there are employment opportunities. Not on those lans, thousands of hectares of rape. There's not a lot of jobs there. They're in animal production because you just have to feed the cattle in the morning and in the evening, you have to take care of them, i.e. You have to keep people busy. If 1.4 billion. you pour into this system, then you just don't do the maximum for jobs. When I say you're not doing your best, then I say yes, of course it's a bit of a meet-up. And then one last comment. The others are doing it, we're doing it too. It is true that green oil was a significant support at a time when we did not have a chance to support livestock production in the financial period 2007 to 2013, because those who had previously set agricultural policy and agricultural policy priorities for this European Union financial period were not set as one of the priorities for supporting livestock production and so were looking for surface systems to help farmers. This thing is changing. She's changed a lot in the last two years. It is possible to specifically support animal production, but we prefer to put on green diesel, where I stress it is unclear how much you pour into tractors and how much you pour it anywhere else. At the same time, I want to say that there are other priorities that agriculture has. And it is a matter of drought, which is almost not addressed. It is a matter of promoting livestock production and of course the quality of food and everything related to it. I think it's possible the 1.4 billion. use the direction to support livestock production and drought solutions much better than to give the area so-called. Green oil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u13	I thank Mr Bendl. I'm gonna ask my colleague Urban to be patient. Mr Pavel Kováčik, President of the MP's club, came forward with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say at the pre-speaker's account that I am glad that the ODS representative is starting to think a little bit more complex. It is a pity that the years that the right has ruled here have not quite been treated towards farmers, nor towards the promotion of livestock production. Not to mention the verbal support that sometimes sounded here, but the actual support. I just want to remind you that agriculture as such works as one integral system. Plant and animal production. This means whether we support the green oil of those who drive around the field, not only with a combiner and a tractor for harvesting or agrotechnical work, but also to see if the grain is ripe or what sprays it needs, etc. etc., that by supporting plant production, so of course animal production is also supported. As far as the costs of entering livestock through plant production are concerned, I do not think that feed products used in animal production are produced in the field. Most of the time, yes. Mostly the alfalfa, the corn, anything else that's used to feed in animal production, is created in the field of oil consumption, even the green oil. That's where the support is. As regards the promotion of livestock production. I'd like to finally get the initiative out of my mouth. And no one can blame me for noticing it as a zoo technician since I was in the Chamber of Deputies. But some tangible steps to support animal production, whether directly or through protein crops, etc., are beginning to manifest themselves - only recently. [[with emphasis]] And I don't think it's because somebody needs to support the ropes of rape. This is also a very simplified view. For years we also draw attention to the fact that we are Europe's rooftop and that all the water that rains in our country will also flow away from us. That we have no water that flows into the Czech Republic, into this country, from somewhere else but heaven. That we are therefore obliged to protect against ourselves and against the rest of Europe the water that will come, to hold it in the countryside, to develop programmes that would allow small or medium-sized buildings, which would, of course, be in connection with flood control measures, but also constructions that will help to delay water in the landscape and in periods that we are currently experiencing, in times of great drought, to help with some water balance. That it also happened that after the coup there had been a gross neglect until then quite a functioning system of irrigation. [[12.00 hours]] And that, especially in the regions of southern Moravia and Polabí, farmers would need to use functional irrigation with some reasonable irrigation costs. But unfortunately, she's here -- and again, I'm asking, where did the mistake come from when the Melioratorium device got soaked? Is this a question of bad privatization? I remind you of the question that has been asked all these years. Is it a matter of momentary departure from any reasonable prices? Or what kind of question is that? The answer to these questions is: Yes, the error has happened, but given that it is coming, the climate change is, no matter what anyone thinks, especially our most productive areas, so let's just do something about the water in the landscape and do something about the irrigation. And it is a long time ago, when we seem to have thrown games on the wall, and now it appears, and even from Mr Bendl's speech, it is clear that even on the right side of us there is some interest in understanding this problem at least a little bit and perhaps helping him. But this cannot be solved from the package that is intended to support green diesel. If she wasn't elsewhere in Europe, please. This is also a question that should be more widely addressed with regard to, for example, the environmental budget, because water retention in the landscape is not just a question of farmers, it is a question of a much broader one and a much broader one should also be addressed. That, in my opinion, is one of the greatest tasks of this government. At least a strategy, at least some basic concept in this direction to prepare. And green oil, after all, we're putting back the injustice that has been done in past parliamentary periods - in government, guess who. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. I will also ask my colleague Urban, because Mr Petr Bendl wants to speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u16	I wanted to thank President Kováčik through the President for admitting that these parameters are already improving. It doesn't work from year to year, there has to be planning for a longer time, and when something positive is done, it takes a while for everything to show up. In the area of some types of food, respectively. some species of animal production, to be precise, show that the parameters are improving. At the same time, if animal production in the Czech Republic is a priority, we should focus on it first. We just can't deny that if we pour money into green oil in the system, then we pour it into the rape, even in the technical crops. And if we know that animal production is a priority for us, and it is higher than rape and so on, then let's solve the money together so that we can direct it to a specific clear goal. Otherwise, as far as the drought programme is concerned, I didn't really notice that it would be a priority for this government, even though we were asking about it together on the agricultural committee. So, yes, it goes across the resorts, it's not just a matter of the Department of Agriculture, it's also a matter of the Ministry of the Environment, because we're not only worried about irrigation, it wouldn't solve the problem. It bothers us to keep the water in the landscape. Restoring ponds, cleaning them, digging them up and so on. And I haven't picked that up anywhere. 1.4 billion. We're splitting up, and I haven't seen that priority anywhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Milan Urban, now duly applied for, who will, of course, comment on his amendment as well as on his relationship with the original text and how it is with the comprehensive amendment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, you're a psychic. Yeah, well, I'm not talking about green oil, I'm talking about my proposal to cut excise duty on diesel and gas. In 2009, the Ministry of Finance made a proven error in viewing the increase in excise duty on diesel and petrol as some kind of static value. And he's doing it to this day. The Treasury officials feel the same way all the time. What happened in 2009? Perhaps, in good faith, the excise duty in the Czech Republic increased by the fact that the final price of diesel and petrol, especially for diesel, was higher than in the surrounding countries around the Czech Republic. Of course, from that static point of view, there were completely different dynamic results. Proven, provenly, the Czech Republic lost some CZK four billion per year to the revenue of the state budget from the sale of diesel and petrol. This is not the calculation of Milan Urban, but it is the calculation of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Economics. No one has ever done any analysis from the Ministry of Finance, just that it has always multiplied the sales of liters in the Czech Republic by some value and based on how much we would lose if we reduced the excise duty. But the situation is different. If we get into some competitive advantage or at least comparable prices of diesel within the European Union or neighbouring countries, then, of course, sales in the Czech Republic will increase, which has dropped dramatically, because especially foreign transporters count virtually every koruna or euro and are on-line driven to where to gas. It's no problem with the big tanks. So thanks to this, everyone has been pumping and pumping more than in the Czech Republic, and therefore we are burdening the citizens with a high price of diesel, a high price of petrol, and we are losing money to the state budget. That really doesn't make any sense to me. Therefore, I have again proposed a change in the reduction of excise duty to diesel and petrol so as not to burden companies and citizens, and so as to increase the sale of diesel especially for transporters in the Czech Republic. This is proven to include additional sales, because it is proven that there are ten crowns of accompanying sales per 100 liters of diesel sold. Those are the bagels, and I don't know what they sell at gas stations. For a hundred liters of gasoline sold, it's five crowns of accompanying sales. If you multiply it by the hundreds of thousands of gallons of diesel and gasoline sold, you'll find that it's not a petty amount, and you'll also have to see some kind of labor behind it. From this point of view, of course, the Ministry of Finance has reservations about the proposal today, because officials are still preparing the same view. They'll take the liters sold and multiply it by a reduced excise tax number and say, well, we can't afford it because the state will lose billions of crowns on the revenue of the state budget. I'm willing to admit that since the analysis, which is a bit outdated after all, the National Economic Faculty of the University of Economics could have been shifted. But the analysis at the time said that the yield would increase by at least four to seven billion crowns a year. I'm willing to admit that it doesn't have to be such a high yield, an extra income to the state budget. I'm even willing to admit that there will be no income. But if it is with zero, it is still beneficial for citizens of the Czech Republic and for companies in the Czech Republic. And unfortunately, there is no such real analysis of the Ministry of Finance. That was the reason for my amendment, and I think that it does not lack common sense and that it is in favour of citizens and companies in the Czech Republic. Whatever you decide, ladies and gentlemen, we'll see about that, of course. And now a legislative comment. The legislature has ordered me to say here on a microphone that my amendment is not an alternative to a government proposal, but that it complements a government proposal. This is what I do to fulfil all the legislative obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u19	Thank you, that's what I wanted to hear from you, and I'm sure the rapporteur did, too. Now two priority rights. Minister Mládek, then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. At the same time, I will ask for a reduction in the noise level so that Minister Mládek can express himself clearly and understand him well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly comment on Mr Urban's proposal. There the proposal is undoubtedly interesting, there is an important idea of who pays the tax, whether it is paid by tax entities in the Czech Republic or by foreign entities. And if the foreign ones were to pay for it, it is of course beneficial for Czech domestic entities, whether they are companies or citizens. I think we should get back to this and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, prepare further analyses of the possible costs of this matter. Unfortunately, at this point, I must abstain. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u21	Thank you. Now the Minister of Finance, then Mr František Laudát. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to comment on the law. bohužel, unfortunately, Mr Urban's amendment to the Ministry of Finance is fundamentally opposed, because the main reason is the incompatibility of this amendment with European Union law and the significant negative budgetary impact. I would like to ask you, colleagues, to vote against. However, I would like to comment on the proposal made here by Mr Urban. It is true that the last increase in excise duty on fuel carried out by Minister Kalousek, and this has been a very bad time since 1 January 2010. There was a very negative difference in the price of fuel between the Czech Republic and the surrounding countries and the domestic market was damaged. That's right. Lately, this difference has been decreasing. For the Treasury, I can say that we are not opposed to the agreement. Mr Urban is based on an old analysis, which is about a year old. The last tax increase was a crown, and Mr Urban's proposal of 2.50 for diesel and 1.5 for petrol is, of course, very progressive. I'm sure we want to do this, we're interested, I want to keep an eye on it. But let's do a real analysis, let's talk to the transporters, maybe put the students on the border, and they can ask the drivers where they tanked and why. We'll figure something out and we'll deal with it, we'll come up with a proposal and we'll talk about it. Doing it here just from a table based on some numbers wouldn't be responsible, because the proposal would have a dramatic impact on the budget. We're in favour, we can definitely agree on how we want to deal with this, Monday is tripartite. I'm sure the Treasury is ready for a debate, but based on serious research figures. We have the advantage of having Chepro, which is a state firm. It is the largest distributor of fuel, it has an overview of the market, how it is with us and how it is beyond the borders. What I'm saying here is after consulting Chepro. I repeat - we want to talk about this and we do not reject it, as has been said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u23	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. Now, with a factual remark from Milan Urban, then with priority rights, the chairman of the club ANO Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u24	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for taking this as a serious issue. I'm saying that the analysis is a little outdated, but in my opinion, the principle is that there is still a dynamic in reducing selection and improving the Czech Republic. However, I would like to reject the first position - that this is contrary to the rules of the European Union. We have an obligation to hold a certain excise duty calculated over the euro. This is always done on 1 October of each year. The mandatory excise duty is currently applicable on the basis of the price and exchange rate as at 1 October 2013. At present, therefore, if the law were adopted, it is not contrary to the European directive. I'm pretty sure about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Now with priority rights, President Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u26	I took very short advantage of the time in the debate, especially when Mr Urban was speaking, and I looked at two sources on the Internet, what are the prices of diesel around us. Well, just so you know. The current figures are that today we are at the level of 1,33 euro, Austria 1,39, Slovakia 1,36, Slovenia 1,38, Germany 1,37, Italy 1,69, France 1,39. I don't know who would be coming to our house at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u27	Thank you. If no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if interest is final. The Minister is not interested. The rapporteur does. Mr rapporteur, you have the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to comment on my honourable colleague Urban's amendment. As much as I understand the reasons for this amendment, and it must be said that it was not just a shot from yesterday, this amendment was sought earlier by Mr Urban - so, however I understand these reasons, unfortunately, as rapporteur, I cannot actively support the adoption of this amendment precisely because we can get into a collision with the European directive. My opinion on this amendment is that I will abstain. Of course, I don't have a problem with the law itself. I talked about him and supported him in previous readings. That's a yes, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u29	I see Mr Urban making a point of fact, but this was the final word of the rapporteur and the debate was closed. On request from the diaper, I'm going to unsubscribe all of you and ask you for a new registration. I ask the rapporteur to repeat the amendments, to comment on them before the vote, and to take us by voting on this matter. We will start voting when the number of Members applied for is settled. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The motion to reject this bill has not been tabled, only one amendment has been tabled, at second reading from Mr Milan Urban. We should therefore vote on this amendment. I gave my opinion in my previous entry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-23-ps2013-012-04-003-022.u31	Thank you, the Minister also said it. However, I would rather invite him to give his opinion on Mr Urban's amendment before the vote. [[Disagree.]] Disagree. Okay. I have begun the vote on order number 65 and I ask who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 65. Of the present 164 for 86, against 52. The motion was accepted. There was no other proposal. We will vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Sb., on excise duty, as amended by the House Press 215, as amended by the approved amendment.' I've begun the vote on order number 66, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting order number 66. Of the 167 present for 126, versus 27. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to Prime Minister Andrea Babiš, thank you to the rapporteur and finish point No. 22. [[12.20 hours]] Calm down, please. I have factual remarks here, but that was probably when the vote was taken - Mr. Votava, Mr. Zaorálek and Mr. Šincl. They're not, okay. The next item is the item number
