ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u1	8. Members of David Kádner, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Petr Adam, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Marek Černoch, Karel Fiedler, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Jaroslav Holík, Martin Lank, Karel Pražák, Milan Šarapatka and Jiří Štětina for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 145/2010 Coll., on Consumer Credit, as amended / House printing 41/ - second reading Mr David Kádner shall state the motion as the appellant, and before taking the floor, I shall ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Petitions and Budget, Mr František Laudát, take his place at the rapporteur's table. Ambassador, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly not repeat my first reading speech. I just want to say that I am at least pleased that this draft has sparked a major debate, not only in committees, but also at a seminar. And I believe that if the House had decided not to move this press into the third reading, I believe that none of the parties that were mentioned, we all agreed across the board that we needed something similar, perhaps better with consumption, that the government should take it under its wine. And I believe that if you don't allow this bill to continue until the third reading, the government will commit itself to presenting something to some nearest time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u3	Thank you, counselors. I now ask the rapporteur of the budget and petition committee of František Laudát, stating that we ordered the draft tabled at first reading to the Committee on Budgetary and Petition, the House's press were delivered as House prints 41/2 and 41/4. The Committee on Petitions has also submitted a record of the negotiations delivered to you as House Press 41/3. I ask the rapporteur to take up his intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution. Before that, I'd just say we can't say no at second reading, so we'll do third. So, as far as the Committee on Budgets is concerned, the Committee on Budgets rejected the bill as submitted to the petitioner by Members Radim Fiala and others. Secondly, because he is aware that this is a serious social and economic problem, he recommends that the House adopt accompanying resolutions on the third. I'd introduce you to them. "One. The Committee on Budgets is of the opinion that predatory and usury practices in the non-bank lending market are a very serious negative socio-economic phenomenon that threatens many citizens. Two. The Committee on Budgets asks the Government to process and submit to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a proposal for legal regulation that would substantially tighten the conditions for entry into the business of lending to non-bank providers and introduce effective supervision over their activities." [[not only consumer]] And the last thing I'm supposed to do is introduce you to this. So, from the budget committee, it was voted for its own motion to reject. As far as the Committee on Petitions is concerned, the Committee on Petitions has not adopted a resolution on its own law because neither the motion for rejection nor the proposal for support has been passed. He acted like a budget, so he recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following accompanying resolution. "Deputy Chamber of Deputies First, it asks the Government to process and submit to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a proposal for legal regulation which would substantially tighten the conditions for entry into the business of lending by non-bank providers and introduce effective supervision over their activities. [[not only consumer]] Date: 31. 12. 2014.'; So here, I believe that this completely coincides with the first part of the budget committee resolution. "And secondly, she asks the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to submit an analysis of loan-taking practices, with an emphasis on sites with a high proportion of citizens from socially excluded groups." And this, of course, is what I'm supposed to introduce you to again. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, perhaps then we would vote on accompanying resolutions as they were loaded. I assume that the first paragraph of the draft budget committee and the petition committee is identical, so that there would be two proposals for voting - the same one and the other one with the request for analysis. There's a term... No, it's not. I'm sorry. But the analysis should probably prevent any legal regulation. As for my own proposal, I would repeat my proposal for the third reading. I'm going to propose the rejection of this amendment at the third reading. But in no way will I vote and recommend the non-approval of those accompanying resolutions. I suppose there'll be a majority consensus here in the House, but it's just my speculation. So much for the intelligence report, I guess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the report and open a general debate. First is Mr Tomio Okamura, then Mr Václav Votava. I will ask Mr Radim Fiala if he wishes to exercise his right of priority. Okay. That will be the order of Mr Okamura, Mr Fiala, Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the government has opposed the bill on consumer credit. Of course. To approve a competing party's bill just because it is needed and would help people, it is not possible. Politics and politics come first. The benefit of citizens is irrelevant. The government claims that the regulation of the annual percentage rate of costs, so-called RPSN, there is no need, as there is already a settled caselaw of the Czech courts on what is and is not in accordance with good manners, taking into account the risk of individual debtors. This really isn't even a good joke anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u7	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a little while and ask the House for peace again! There's an unprecedented level of noise. I ask all those who do not discuss or do not want to discuss the subject of consumer credit to move their discussions into the foyer. On the left and on the right side of the House. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reality is absolutely the opposite. The courts themselves deal with loans only at the moment when they fulfil the signs of a crime of usury, and so far it is very difficult to prove because of the very clever wording of the law. The decisive factor is not only the amount of interest, but it must also be shown whether the loan was negotiated in distress or some similar weakening of the debtor. In this respect, the Úsvit movement prepares and presents a new definition of the weird crime, where the debtor should no longer be obliged to show distress, but the usury would depend only on the cost of the loan, as is common in the countries of the world for millennia. Another thing is that, in practice, only a slim fraction of problematic loans gets to the court. The overwhelming part of people who succumbed to cheaters is not judged because they simply don't have the money to do it, and mostly neither the ability nor the ability to do it. That is why it is extremely important for us to preemptively set clear rules so that people are not robbed and not wait for someone affected to start judging themselves. That makes as stupid a logic as food manufacturers wanting to abolish hygiene standards, saying that if they poison someone, the disabled can be judged. Our Consumer Credit Act is based on the practice of civilised countries that have in some way maximum interest on consumer credit, either directly by law or in judicial practice. Here I would like to draw everyone's attention to that consumer credit, respectively. it is somehow regulated in 13 countries of the European Union. This means 13 countries out of 27 have regulation of consumer credit and the Czech Republic is not among them, of course. That's why we're proposing it here. This means that what the Dawn movement is proposing here is not some fiction or nonsense, but it is a model in countries such as Belgium, Estonia, France, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Greece, Slovenia or Spain. These are countries where it is regulated, respectively. consumer credit has been compromised. In Germany, for example, there is a ceiling given by a decision of the Supreme Court that considers it appropriate to double the average interest rate applied on the market. In neighbouring Poland - I will say first of all neighbouring countries - the maximum interest rate must not exceed four times the Lombard rate of the Polish National Bank. It's our proposal that works at the lombard rate. In France, the maximum interest rate is the market rate calculated by the central bank each quarter multiplied by a factor of 1,33. [[18.10 hours]] So, as we can see, I understand that the issue is more complex, because there are different models in different countries, but the principle is quite clear - to put a stop to the cost of credit. In this context, I am a little sorry that even though we agreed here almost six months ago that we were going to move it towards second reading, we could not really agree on one of the few well-known models that work in 13 countries in the European Union in a few months, and we could not actually move it forward, which is really wonderful. Because again, in 13 countries it is, we even have models to choose from, they are clearly given, and I have unfortunately begun to feel that, after going around some sort of banking association, the debate has turned into a restriction on the competition of banks, rather than that there is supposed to be a proposal for usury and loan shark interest rather than going back to the principle, that is to put interest on the table. The aim of this law is not primarily to punish usury, i.e. criminal activity. That's got to be a good criminal law. As I said, we are preparing our proposal. Our goal in this law, which we are discussing right now, is to set some limits for consumer credit so that people, regardless of their abilities, know that they will not pay more annually than is socially acceptable. We can and are willing to discuss interest parameters. That's what I'm running into here for a few months of discussion. But this is not, paradoxically, whether there will be up to 15,000 costs of 20 or 30 per cent for the loan, but that the consumer should be sure that there is a limit and that, in the event of proper repayment, he simply will not pay more. And I think that's a perfectly legitimate request. There is, by the way, an odd objection from the government, so when I was going over the government's objections that providers cost, I would say in my own words not costs, but loan interest, they would move into penalty charges. That is what I think we don't understand at all with the government's arguments here, because at this point we are dealing with standard consumer credit and its conditions in the proper fulfilment of obligations, so that whoever wants to meet the obligations properly, that is, the beginning of the contract, so that he doesn't get pissed off by any loan shark interest. The government also points to the diversity of corporate products and related conditions, but this is precisely what we are trying to do here. I emphasise once again, as in the other 13 countries of the European Union, where it already works. Of course, financial institutions offer the most complex conditions so that a normal person is unable to figure out how much credit will cost him in the final performance. I think that is exactly what we legislators are here to lay down clear rules, especially for ordinary citizens, to say that the loan will cost you a maximum of so much per year and you need not be afraid that someone will set you up, which is really no longer an individual problem today, which is why I am happy to say what Mr Laudát has said here, but it is really becoming a social problem, which is then taken away by the entire company in the form of various benefits, which must then be paid to the victims, and so on. Of course, the government's last objection to a leak to the black market does not apply either. Firstly, following consumer credit, and I hope that we will discuss this together, a new definition of usury, when we should be odds on a loan whose performance significantly exceeds the socially acceptable limit, and of course we are ready to discuss the percentage of this performance. However, we could come out of existing judicacies, which consider usury annual costs exceeding 60 to 70 %. Second, the government's argument. Escape on the black market is not nearly possible for providers of any loan in practice because the loan, which will be contrary to the law, will in that case be invalid and thus legally unenforceable. Three. I have noticed, and I have already talked about it, the increased activity of bank lobbyists who have actually made remarkable use of the consumer credit debate and have convinced the petition committee to adopt a resolution which essentially calls for greater binding on lending, licensing and restrictions for selected supervised companies. Let's understand for the banks. It must be said that strengthening the position of banks is absolute nonsense in my view, because their incomprehensible and often absurd fees are among the highest in the world in the Czech Republic, and our banks are also the most profitable. I mean, more profitable than their mothers in far richer countries than the Czech Republic. This really means where the lobbying of bank lobbyists has gone, to somewhere else, and perhaps many have believed that, that is truly remarkable. It is necessary to create simple, legible and fair rules under which every citizen of the Czech Republic can borrow. The goal is not a monopoly of banks. The aim is for people not to pay usury interest on contracts they are unable to understand. After all, it's not just less literate. I am happy to sign under this proposal, and I am the plaintiff because even for a man as busy as I am, when he presents me a small letter on the other side of the contract, I suspect that most of you have problems with this, so to decipher this and confess it is really required for many contracts, whether credit or other, several hours of focused reading, so that even a person like me does not actually let himself be fooled by the existing rules. So it's not just about the socially weaker or less financially literate ones, but I think we all have problems with that, as it is with fees and various extras. So it should definitely be our goal. The main purpose of the proposed amendment on consumer credit is, therefore, that people, all citizens of the Czech Republic, understand contracts well. Finally, I am really happy and I am joining in on whether the representatives of the Government could actually commit themselves here clearly, as Mr Laudát said here, to the deadline in connection with the resolution, so that by the end of the year, if I have heard correctly, a clear proposal should be tabled and that we should end these loan-making practices in the Czech Republic. That means, even if this law was rejected at third reading, at least I have to say that it has been fulfilled by the fact that we may have stirred up the debate and that we work together on this solution so that citizens no longer get into the clutches of various loan-raiser mobs. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u9	Thank you, Mr Tomie Okamur. Before we go any further, one more apology from the hearing. Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes from 18:00 to the end of today's working day. Now, with Mrs Zelienková's point of fact. Then, with priority rights, Mr Radim Fiala. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to comment on what has just been said here. Through Mr President, I would like to ask colleagues from Dawn: The next time you prepare such a proposal, it is of course very important for us, and we would like to discuss this so that we do not be surprised and then resolve these situations. We, colleagues Berdychová and Pastuchová, have really tried to find a solution to create an amendment that would suit citizens' needs in some way. Finally, I am very pleased that Mr Laudát has tabled these provisions here, which I would also like to put forward if it had not been said so. In my opinion, this is a helpful step when we want to show that we do not want to take your proposal off the table in some way, but we want to keep working on it. I know the Department of Justice is working on usury, it's a priority for them, and they're gonna do their best to solve the problem of usury. We see it as a social issue. So let's keep working on this together and communicate with the Justice Department so that we can find a common path to our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u11	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Radim Fiala now. Mr Václav Votava will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member - through Mr President - Mrs Zelienková, for encouraging the House of Deputies to do something about usury. Because it's getting really big. And, as we say, not only a social problem, where these people end up really in quotation marks under a bridge, but also an economic problem where a lot of people are excluded from economic life and from paying taxes and contributing to the revenue of the state budget, which we see as a big problem. If that is the case, and the Ministry of Finance will want to address this matter, we will be happy to vote for it, and if it means limiting usury as in some other states, in most states of Europe, then our proposal has fulfilled its mission if it protects or even you, if you prepare a law that will protect the citizens of the Czech Republic from usury. Well, that was a short introduction. However, allow me to return to usury as a problem and quote and repeat some of the things that I have already mentioned here at first reading. Our proposed ceiling of RPSN is a limitation of usury, which will be clearly defined by law for the first time. The odds and associated executions eliminate a significant part of the population of the Czech Republic from economic life. This has a direct impact on our country's economic stagnation, which is becoming increasingly known. Today, it is no exception that people borrow for 1,000- even 10,000 percent of RPSN. And then we can't be surprised that he ends up in execution immediately. It is logical that if inflation is now low, interest on loans must also be lower. On the contrary, if it is high, interest must also rise. That is why we did not set one fixed ceiling of maximum permissible RPSN, but we wrote that this ceiling should depend on the lombard rate set by the Czech National Bank, which in its line depends on the price of money in the economy. Therefore, if the Lombard rate is very low, as is the case today, the RPSN loans must not exceed 20 to 25 per cent depending on the amount of the loan. On the contrary, if the lombard rate is high, the limit of maximum leave for RPSN will rise, but it will never exceed 80 to 100 per cent. In doing so, we say that this is a very tolerant measure that leaves room for business and merely forbids what is already completely beyond the edge of usury. We firmly hope that our fellow Members from the other MPs will not only remain behind the pre-election promises and will support the proposed adjustment in the upcoming second reading. Every other day, when there is a legal usury in our republic, means another and another business with human misfortune. And I will once again say, through the President's coalition and, by extension, Mrs Zelienková, who I greatly appreciate, I will repeat that sentence: Every other day that there is a legal usury in our Republic means another and another business with human misfortune.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u13	I thank Mr Radim Fial. The words will be taken by Mr Václav Votava, the last one entered into the debate so far, then by the rapporteur and the representative of the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u14	Thank you for the floor. vážený Vice-President, colleagues, first of all, I have preceded the fact that social democracy will not support this parliamentary bill. We released him or we did not vote for rejection at first reading because we wanted to discuss the matter thoroughly, and on this topic was a seminar which was carried out together with the constitutional committee. I think it was a very useful seminar. I am grateful that he had quite a decent participation not only by the institutions, organisations that are interested in this issue, but also by the Members. Of course, the arguments were raised at our address that we had also made a parliamentary proposal in the past where the RPSN was dealt with. So it was not dealt with by law, but it was to be dealt with by government regulation or by its amount, its boundary above. I must say that this seminar was very important to me. And as the Ministry of Justice performed, as consumer credit providers performed, and not only consumer credit, but also representatives of Man in Need, simply organizations that deal with this issue, so I understood, and not only I, I believe that even most participants, that there is probably no way through the RPSN. It's not, and for a number of reasons. A certain calculation was also presented, such a model example, when the amount of credit was set, a smaller amount for a smaller period, and is based simply on an RPSN of 100 percent. In this case, it would not have been possible at all, and if this proposal had been approved, it would have even been illegal and it would have been usury to grant such a loan. And yet the loan is normal, there's nothing unusual and wrong with it. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] The Committee on Budgets, of course, discussed this because it had an order to do so, and the rapporteur spoke about it, rejected this proposal. We adopted the accompanying resolution, and I voted in favour of them, for that accompanying resolution, I think it is right, and, on the one hand, this matter should be dealt with by the government with a government proposal, it should not be a parliamentary proposal, and we have said, of course, that it is a very dangerous phenomenon in society, which has far-reaching impacts on the social sphere, the economy, etc., so it really needs to be dealt with, it really needs to be dealt with. However, we also agreed on the majority, and I have already said that this path does not go through the RPSN, but it is necessary to do something about those non-bank providers. Those non-bank providers are about 50 grand today, I don't know the exact number on the units. Over 50,000 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u15	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to interrupt you. I'll ask the House again for peace. Please pay attention to this proposal or discuss other matters in the foyer. And I mean everyone who's raised the noise level in this Chamber. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I said, these providers are about 50,000 and to be able to provide legally - now I'm not talking about the gray zone, the supply that is happening completely imprudently, they just need a trade license. And I think it's completely, very wrong. It is necessary, and that was also the agreement that these non-bank providers should be in control, under thorough control, to be licensed. That means they're doing business on some kind of license. And just to keep a close eye on them. That's what I think the government bill should be dealt with. There's been a talk about banks. Yes, of course the banks also expressed themselves, banking associations. This is understandable because they also provide consumer credit. But that's where I think, in the vast majority of cases, these loan shark practices don't occur. So I want to repeat - social democracy will not support this bill. It's not because we don't want to fight usury. On the contrary, we want to fight usury, we need to fight it, but not in this way. I understood that, as I say, even after the seminar that brought even more clarity into this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u17	I thank Mr Votav. He was very kind to you because the attention wasn't like that. Now, with Mr Fiedler's point of fact, then the rapporteur and the appellants' representatives. Mr Fiedler, please make a factual point. [[Mr Fiedler's comment.]] You volunteered - oh, sorry, so in that case, the rapporteur comes first, because you have a proper application - no, okay. So that's the final word. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u18	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I, as my colleague Radim Fiala, would also like to begin by thanking Mrs Zelienková. We are really happy to accept this offer. We do not yet know how the vote will turn out at third reading, but if this bill of ours were rejected, we really welcome this offer and I call for us to work together to adapt our original version. This, of course, also applies to Members from other Members' Clubs. [[18.30 hours]] I would like to respond here to the words of the President of the budget committee of Mr Votava that, in his view, the path does not go beyond the regulation of the RPSN. I really don't think so, Mr. Chairman. I really still think that RPSN is leading through this. The fact that I have found that when the need to set a maximum interest rate has been accepted by countries such as Germany, 12 percentage points above the average rate, Austria, France, Belgium, and as my colleagues have said, it is in the 13 countries of the European Union that your argument that this path does not go through the RPSN, I think it is not entirely justified. You can, of course, argue that it is not in other countries, but I think that those countries that have developed legal environments such as Germany, Austria, France, so we should probably look for inspiration there. I would also mention that it was mentioned here that there was a seminar on this matter. I saw the seminar a little differently. I saw him as a seminar where it was of the utmost interest that the banking and non-bank market be as limited as possible. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we here in this House are here to defend the interests of citizens, rather than banks and credit providers, not even loan sharks. I think our mission here is different. There was also mention of the organization Man in Need. I would like to repeat it here at the House plenary - from the representative of this organization the following sentence was literally said at the seminar: Not everyone here has the same access to justice and justice. I think, as my fellow Members from our parliamentary club have already said, my previous speakers, not all of us know each other and are able to defend themselves in the legal environment through the courts against what is happening in our country. I don't have to convince you that for a person who doesn't move in these circles, which is most of our country's inhabitants, it's more complicated than for those companies that deal with this business. Furthermore, I would mention here that the seminar mentioned that we were essentially sending people to the grey zone of the black economy. And I'm asking again, I've already said it in the committees and I'm going to repeat it here in the House, if that person, the borrower, doesn't succeed in the bank, doesn't meet the criteria, isn't he creditable, doesn't he have credit to get a loan by sending him to the non-banking sector, where the interest is higher, so does his creditability change somehow? His credibility? On the other hand, this will make it worse, because the interest there is much higher. And of course, the same is true after that if it falls into the black or gray zone. And if comments have been made that it is then problematic for loan sharks who operate without any contracts, we will not resign from us for the enforcement and respect of criminal law. That would be really bad. I really don't think so. Finally, I would like to say on interest rates, repeat it again - if such advanced countries as Germany and Austria have come to the conclusion that the maximum percentage of interest on loans must be reduced, this has a reason to do so. There was a mention, and I therefore welcome that our proposal was so stimulating that it provoked the debate that a register of non-bank credit providers should be established. But if we have them registered, what will prevent them from providing loans for, as they say, outrageous, unchristian interest? Moreover, the fact that around 50 providers are likely to be reduced in the register, we all know that less competition means higher prices. Therefore, despite what has been said here, I appeal to you with a request to support this law. Of course, we welcome the helpfulness of all Members or Members' clubs who are willing to continue working with us on this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I don't see anybody joining the general debate at this point. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I'll read one more apology. [[Laudate]] This apologizes for the reasons of work, Minister Daniel Herman, from today's meeting at 5:15 p.m. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have applied here for a normal contribution, not as rapporteur, because I would abuse the status of rapporteur to say give - gave. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here. First of all, President Okamura here said the phrase "we're dealing with a standard loan." No, of course not. We're not dealing with a standard loan. The standard loan is not in the interest rate band. The odds are a different world, not what you want to present here. The loan is going to cost so much. The problem is, you really think the world is black and white. There is a terrible risk that a person who doesn't know exactly the penzum in this area is just an entire portfolio of banking services. Now, let me just say one thing - you're going to make a major notch with this experiment, and these are normal consumer loans that are provided, for example, in stores. It's not just the world of banks, it's the world of commerce today. Unfortunately, the Čech have got used to speeding up their credit ahead, putting their consumption ahead of their earnings. It's their decision, and there's nothing we can do about it. It's quite at the moment, in a sensitive time of weak growth, a certain economic stimulus, what shouldn't really be doing the state, though probably doing it according to the government's statement as the first steps will be, so he didn't. People do it, they have more to vouch for than the state, maybe. So it's just not that black and white, which you think it is. More business for the banks. You know, I don't think that when it goes into the harder regulation of non-bank providers, it's gonna spill the market over to bankers. In my opinion, they don't give favorable terms. They have significantly harder conditions for the income of applicants, for property, etc. Just exposed risk loans, the whole of Europe, the United States, has a lot of experience with this. I think that we are in a recovery phase from the very cold shower that has taken place, so I do not think that this business will automatically move into banks that also have some of their charter behavior, have some principles and, above all, substantially harder conditions for lending. A colleague of mine, Fiala, here, said to finally start making out with usury. Well, I think it's started. I don't know if he's noticed that about a year and a half ago a rather substantial amendment has just been approved here, precisely because in areas with a high proportion of socially excluded groups, the situation has actually become shaky. There those forms of abuse were not only granting credit, it was calling on false lines and paying without a service etc. etc. That's what we agreed across the political spectrum. I don't think there was anyone here who voted against or abstained at the time, so it passed. The organizations that work in those locations are clearly giving a positive response to this. Also, since then, the scale of the shredder hasn't been as acute as it was a year and a half ago. [[18.40 hours]] My colleague Fiedler here said "there's no way" that the chairman of the Votava Budget Committee thought so. I don't think so, either, and from my point of view, you still don't want to understand the one thing - weirdness isn't in the range of what can be dealt with by this law, this approach. You're just trying here, or you want to redefine the terms of those standard legal providers. I really believe, like the Social Democrats at this point in time, that one of the instruments that would be worth a try is harder supervision of those providers and those who fail to meet the conditions, so automatically, if they provide credit, there is a greater likelihood and a faster opportunity to deal with them because of committing a crime. I don't think it's just that if the banking association lobbied here, it was led by a bigger deal. More like protecting the market that already exists as a standard. I'm saying I don't want to be their lawyer. I think it is responsible for Secretary Marksová-Tominová to submit an analysis. I had already asked her to analyse the impact of the amendment, which was adopted in February last year, with some distance after the adoption of the law, and to analyse how the pathological events are currently taking place. What you did, you just mentioned, I think, some numbers and rates, but otherwise, you took the proposal that was promoted here by a Member of Public Affairs and the President of the Vice-President, Mr Bárta. You know, I think it's extremely risky, like this, without analysis, or we're going to get into Babiš's Treasury Secretary's situation, who first signs the coalition agreement, and then starts grabbing his head, which is, like, putting in a third rate of VAT, canceling the second pillar of pension reform. Maybe someone already said something to him that it was a huge chance to raise capital for building and modernising infrastructure with safe deposit, we can continue to do other things - canceling charges, and suddenly they don't know where to get the missing billions. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] So please, let's really argue and make responsible decisions. And here I don't know, maybe completely objectively admit that the Slovák are now doing a second attempt to regulate the amount of credit again. As far as Germany and others are concerned, I am not an entirely detailed expert, but again it could appear in the analysis of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or in the finances, of how all the possible services and loops that are put into the RPSN and what not to include there, because the experience from Slovakia was just that different pseudo-projects that had not been defined before in the RPSN began to be developed, and instead of making the market transparent and making it more clear. And if I remember correctly the calculation that's moral and immoral, you're suggesting softer terms than court verdicts on usury. So I really have to stand up for President Votava on this one. I don't think it's about attacking. The problem of further fight against usury would have been on the agenda without you, because still socially excluded localities, it is shaky, but really this way, in my opinion, again, does not lead either. Maybe a detailed analysis will convince me that yes, but dusting off an old proposal, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u21	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask your colleagues and colleagues to lower the volume level in the room so we can hear each other. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u22	And the very last reminder, even though it has already been said here. Don't think you're gonna make people responsible, most of the company responsible. You just can't win a fight with stupid law. And this happened here historically at a time when the company was much more settled. People also fail in countries where financial literacy is significantly higher. I think what the Ministry of Finance did in the era of Miroslav Kalousek, that it had a state analysis done, and it turned out that the poor state of financial literacy, today, started in schools. Of course, we are now at a time when only in a number of years will the first generation fall out, which if parents insist that their children actually have something to learn, they will at least be a little more financially literate than the groups that lived in a different regime. So I get it, but I don't think you're gonna win a fight with stupidity by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we continue our discussion, I have two more tickets. For reasons of work, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologises today until 18.15 and from 18.40 for personal reasons, Mr Jiří Koskuba apologizes. Another with a point of fact - you are in order, I will write you down - is Mr Klaška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Government, fellow Members, I would also like to support the rapporteur's position, the fact that a more comprehensive government proposal should be prepared, because this certainly well-meaning effort, as we have already discussed in our time, I believe, sometimes in February, does not solve the problem that wants to be addressed. And this can be dealt with in fact with what the rapporteur here proposed by Mr Laudát, with some analysis and some other comprehensive proposal. We have also dealt with this matter, we have also attended not only a seminar, but also a number of different meetings. And I would like to say that the primary problem does not lie within the scope of the RPSN, because it is already in fact the courts, the judicial courts, and it is more stringent than the plaintiffs suggest. I think the problem is also in terms of contracts, because some of these consumer credit agreements are similar to a minefield, and it's just waiting for the mine to explode under the debtor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In addition, Mr Kádner is registered here with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u26	Thank you. I would like to thank you once again for the discussion that took place at second reading. I just want to point out that this proposal, which has been tabled here, has already been put forward for the second time in the House, and I am very glad that the second attempt has succeeded in launching the debate, the problem that is actually described there to be dealt with. I will be very happy, and not just me, but the whole Dawn Club, when someone from the government comes out at third reading and takes it as a guarantee that the government will bring a better and more widespread amendment to the Chamber of Deputies to satisfy us all across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u27	Thank you. Another, with a factual point, is Mr Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking Mr Laudát to be collegial, not to remind the public that, as Minister of Finance, I have commissioned a financial literacy study. Any police officer might notice, evaluate that it was a wasteful and unnecessary decision, and, in the sense of Ms Kailová's accusation, you have me here next month on the agenda. František, please don't do this to me nicely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u29	Thank you. I don't see anyone else at this moment entered into the general debate. Is that so? Okay, I'm done with the detailed debate. I want to ask you the final words, so Mr. Laudát? Mr. Kádner doesn't want it, Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u30	I will just remind you once again that I am making a proposal in the third reading to reject this proposal. And then we would vote on accompanying resolutions, and I would agree in some way. There would then be a fundamental vote on the two, on the one hand, from the Committee on Budgets and on the other, on the other part, which would go to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the request concerning the analysis. That's probably where it should be preceded by the subsequent legal regulation. Then there will be a possible modification of terms for you. Personally, I'm not in a rush to be tasked, because I don't know, either the Department of Labour and Social Affairs has any data. I'd like to hear the data here based on the fact that he can actually shoot the cat on the roof and hit the dusting plane behind the roof, which he already did. So that's why. So just to be clear, we would vote on these resolutions at the third reading, plus a motion to reject or support the proposal tabled by Mr Kádner and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u31	Thank you. If I understand correctly, at the beginning of the third reading, to be the first point, respectively. first voted to reject this point. Subsequently, the accompanying resolution that you have read. Okay. Thank you. I don't see anyone entering into a detailed debate with registration, so I am ending with a detailed debate. I thank both the plaintiffs and the petitioners for their words. I'm not done with this point at this point, so I want to ask if you want to get off. You don't want to. Okay. That means I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. With priority rights, Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, because we have a pretty detailed preparation for the next law, and obviously we won't be able to make the law, we'd just be able to make it in about seven minutes, so I'd like to ask for an eight-minute break for the Dawn of Direct Democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-10-ps2013-010-01-011-008.u33	Thank you. Since this will bring us to the 19th hour when today's meeting ends, at this point, I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations with the fact that we will continue tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock with a fixed score. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
