ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-001-999.u1	Member's promise I therefore ask the Vice-President of the mandate and immunity committee of Mr Jan Chvojka to inform us of the steps he has taken in this committee and then read the Constitution of the prescribed promise that the Member will put in my hands. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-001-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members and honourable Members of the Government, on 28 August 2014, the President of the Chamber of Deputies took over the notarial minutes by which Mr Miloš Petera gave up his mandate. At the moment of delivery of the notary surrender registration to the President of the House, Mr Miloš Petera's mandate was terminated and an alternate named on the ČSSD candidate list for the election in Central Bohemia, Mr Zdeněk Syblík, joined the vacant mandate. At its 18th meeting of today's meeting, the mandate and the Immune Committee adopted resolution number 80, stating that on 28 August 2014, Miloš Petera's mandate, born 14 March 1958, expired in accordance with the provisions of Sections 3 and 6 of the letter. (c) Act No 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, and at the same time stated that on the same day Mr Zdeněk Syblík, born 7 May 1956, acquired his mandate. In accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Zdeněk Syblík shall take a parliamentary oath. I ask the Member to appear before the Chamber of Deputies, while I ask Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies to accept the pledge of a new Member. Please, ladies and gentlemen, stand up. "I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic, I promise to uphold its Constitution and laws. I promise on my honour that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." [[Member Zdeněk Syblík made a promise in the hands of Madam President.]] Dear Member, congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-02-ps2013-014-01-001-999.u3	Let me welcome Mr Zdeněk Syblík among us and wish him every success in his parliamentary work. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr František Laudát and Mr Jiří Mihola. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? It's not like that. I therefore initiate the vote. Whoever is for Mr František Laudát and Mr Jiří Mihola's verifier, raise your hand, press the button. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 1 in which 139 Members are enrolled, for 132. I note that we have appointed members of the František Laudát and Jiří Mihola as verifiers of the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that until the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the proceedings: Jan Hamáček - foreign travel, Vojtěch Adam - health reasons, Ivan Adamec - working reasons, Petr Bendl - personal reasons, Karel Černý - health reasons, René Číp - personal Tureček, Jan Farský - foreign travel, Vlastimil Gabrhel - health reasons, Milada Halíková - foreign travel, Pavel Holík - working reasons, Václav Horáček - personal reasons, Gabriela Hubáčková - personal reasons, Zuzana Kailová - working reasons, Simeon Karamazov - personal reasons, Rom Kostřica - personal reasons, Jaroslav Lobkowicz - working reasons, Jana Lorencová - health reasons, Josef Nekl - health reasons, Miroslava Němcová - work Váňa - without giving reason, Igor Nykl - working grounds, Miroslav Opálka - personal reasons, Antonín Seďa - foreign travel, Karel Schwarzmanná Rýnek - medical Vladislav - medical Vilímec - medical Rostislav - work Vyzula, Vatecová - working Roman, Vatecová - Zbyněk Jiří - Stanjura Zemánek, Vatelová Vtánek - working grounds, working Váhalová, Vtánek [[16.10 hours]] The following members of the government apologize: Bohuslav Sobotka - working reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek - working reasons, Marian Jurečka - working reasons, Svatopluk Němeček - working reasons, Antonín Prachař - foreign travel, Lubomír Zaorálek - working reasons. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 14th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 2, to which 143 Members are registered, for 134. I note that the proposal has been adopted and the agenda has been approved. We will now proceed to discussing this point.
