ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u1	60. Request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence By letter dated 3 February 2014, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka informed the President of the House that the government appointed by the President of the Republic on 29 January 2014 was ready to appear before the Chamber of Deputies and to ask for a vote of confidence. The Constitution of the Czech Republic prescribes to do so within 30 days of its appointment. This government's programming statement was delivered to you on Friday 14 February of this year. I now ask Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, allow me to come before you today with a request to express confidence in the Chamber of Deputies of the newly created Government. The new government stands before the Chamber of Deputies eight months after the fall of the government, which was the last mandate of the elections. We approach the Chamber of Deputies three months after the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, which decided on its current composition. [[12.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to read the text of the Government's programming statement here. It's not that I don't like the lyrics or that I don't want to brag about them. After many hours of coalition negotiations behind this text, I must say that I even have a certain emotional relationship with him. But the text of the government's programming statement, as well as the subsequent text of the coalition agreement of the coalition of social democracy, YES and KDU-ČSL, we gave you already on Friday. And I think it's pointless for me to read the text here now, because each of you had enough time to get to know him in detail. I assume, honourable Members, that criticism from both left and right will be heard during the debate on the Government's programming statement and on the Government's vote on trust. That's a logical and predictable thing to do. In the government coalition, the left-center and left-wing social democratic party that won the election joined the ANO movement, which is in the centre or at the right center of the political spectrum and placed second in the elections, and the KDU-ČSL, which is among the right-centerly defined political forces. It is logical, therefore, that the emergence of a government program, a coalition agreement, on the content of future governance had to be subject to serious debate. And what you're getting in the form of a coalition treaty and a government's programming statement is the penetration of these three political entities' programs. I must say that I am glad that this penetration has been achieved to such a large extent and that this is a good programme for the functioning of the government for at least one parliamentary term. Dear colleagues, whether there will be criticism from the right or the left, I think it is important for all of us to realise that our country is not in good shape and that the new government is not taking over it in a good situation. Over the past seven years, the Civil Democratic Party and TOP 09 have been involved in the government. None of the parties to the current government coalition has borne government responsibility over the past seven years so that it can really participate in executive decisions, and none of these parties were part of the voting majority that could change the laws in this Chamber of Deputies. I am aware that there will undoubtedly be arguments that will talk about the fact that the government's programming declaration is too general and that it does not contain the necessary detailed information. It certainly is, and I think that the government programme is always a general framework that defines the direction that defines the path that defines the next government's strategy. The details will include the Government's legislative plan. The details will include plans for non-legislative tasks that the government will have ahead of it, action plans, strategies. After all, the details will also include the draft law on the state budget for next year, which the new government will then start preparing. I think it is also important to say that the text you have received, and the two texts that are part of the government's programming declaration, are not in conflict, but complement each other and refer to each other. And if the government's programming declaration does not contain all the details and is contained in the text of the coalition agreement, then it is in this order, because the coalition is proceeding on the basis of reference to both the coalition agreement and the new government's programming declaration. So many brief remarks on the introduction of my speech to the request submitted by the Czech Government to the Chamber of Deputies. Let me now, on this occasion, make a very brief comment or highlight the main policy objectives of the new coalition government. The government has three main priorities that are reflected in the entire government program. Firstly, our aim is to implement a country's economic policy that will lead to growth and prosperity while keeping the public budget deficit under control. Secondly, our aim is naturally to correct the worst mistakes that have occurred in the reforms of Topolánkův or Nečasův' government, particularly in the field of health and especially in the field of social policy, especially where families with children have suffered, especially where seniors have suffered. Thirdly, the government's priority is to ensure a well-functioning state that behaves transparently, efficiently and that prevents public funds from being stolen. These are the three key priorities on which this coalition stands and falls. These are three key priorities that will also depend on the policies of individual resorts. Allow me now, honourable Members, to address these three priorities in more detail. First, the new government's budgetary policy, which should focus on promoting employment and promoting entrepreneurship. In the new economic policy, we will not take money from people by increasing value added tax. At the beginning, we agreed that the new government would not increase value added tax. Therefore, trends from past years that have led us to the situation that food and medicines have been taxed in our country by one of the highest rates of value added tax within the European Union at all. Part of the new budgetary policy is also an obvious priority not to cross out the state's investment and not to cross out funds intended for public sector employees' salaries. Because it is the flat-rate cuts in investment and the flat-rate cuts of people working for the state and the public sector that have undermined our country's economic growth in recent years. Another important part of the new economic policy is an active approach to drawing funds from the European Union. It is sad and has been said repeatedly - our country is one of the worst countries in terms of the ability to draw funds from European Union funds effectively. [[12.30 hours]] If CZK 16 billion fell in the entire European Union last year and it was CZK 10 billion in the Czech Republic, this is a very unfortunate result. And if we are in danger of losing CZK 24 billion irretrievably this year, it is undoubtedly alarming. And the government wants to focus on avoiding these risks, averting this danger and ensuring that the money we draw from the European Union will be used, but will be used effectively, that is to say, projects that will strengthen the competitiveness of the Czech Republic in the future, which will promote entrepreneurship and promote the creation of new jobs. A frequent question where we will take it, a frequent question, where the government has the resources to implement its budgetary priorities, can largely be answered - we want to make an effective and good use of the money that we will still receive massively in the coming years as a country that will also be a net beneficiary of funds from the European Union in the coming years, and we can therefore count on these resources to complement the resources available to our national budget. We want to change the government's relationship with investors in the new economic policy. To those who want to invest. And it doesn't matter if they're domestic investors or if they're foreign investors. The government must provide quality service. The fact that this will not be a simple fight also shows the situation surrounding Amazon's investment, where the government is very intensively supporting self-government and is trying to create conditions for both the self-government in Dobrovíz and the self-government in Brno to express its agreement on this type of investment. But it is not just Amazon, I believe that the government must very actively support large investment projects, especially where we have a long-term problem with high unemployment, and where we already have industrial zones connected to transport infrastructure. That is why I am also making it clear that we want to think about the Moravian-Silesian region in terms of the CzechInvest policy, which must recover from the downturn in which it has been in recent years, we want to think about the Moravian-Silesian region, where there are long-term major structural problems and unfortunately they are not behind us. Many of these structural problems have not been resolved. I am thinking, in particular, about the decline in coal mining in both of these regions, and there the government must be sufficiently active. When I talk about investment, I also want to talk briefly about export. Our country is export oriented. We are essentially export-oriented to euro area countries and share its economic fate with the euro area. In our interest, however, there is undoubtedly diversification of exports, which means trying to succeed with our goods and with our services and outside Europe in fast-growing markets. And there is a need for good economic diplomacy. There is a need for good coordination of individual state institutions to end the conflicts of competence and to start intensive work to support our exports, including the issue of investment here in the Czech Republic, the issue of visa policy, so that we do not unnecessarily hinder the possibilities of economic cooperation between us and rapidly growing economies. What the government can do, and what is actually its important task in economic policy, is to take care of infrastructure. That's what everybody always starts with. They say the state has a basic duty to take care of infrastructure construction and the infrastructure of transport is mentioned first. Ladies and gentlemen, this year is the first year after a number of years when the construction of a single new section of the motorway or expressway is not started. This is not the fault of this government, which has been in office for a little longer than 14 days. This is a problem for the functioning of the state, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, the fact that the transport ministers took turns as socks, that there is no satisfactory legislation that would allow the construction of key transport investments, to ensure the standard functioning of the state in this area. If you look at the map of our country, you will look at how desperately we are to connect with our neighbors, which is the basic and logical thing we should do as a government, that is to support the labour market by having a motorway connection with Austria, more variants of connections with Slovakia, connections with Poland, with Germany, it has failed desperately for years. The government needs to focus on this so that it isn't just a phrase, so that we don't repeat it all the time: yes, the transport infrastructure, the government will take care of it. It can't be just a phrase. We have therefore mentioned some key constructions in the programme statement. I know that Members and Members of other regions can come out and say: you did not mention our bypass, you did not mention our speed communication. This does not mean that the government does not want to pay attention to them, but that means that we want to give some priority to these investments, and we will particularly look at how the buildings are prepared and what can be done to speed up the preparations. So much for the transport infrastructure. When I talk about public investment, I also want to mention that it is important for us to invest in the insulation of public buildings, energy savings for companies and households, and that we see an important role in this in the resources from the Operational Programme Environment. The government wants to support education. What we have in mind and what does not work very often, and people are dissatisfied with how public money is spent, are the funds invested in secondary education, the funds invested in apprentice education. I hear it very often, and yesterday I heard it again at a debate with entrepreneurs that the government raises future unemployed for taxpayers' money, that the structure of the disciplines does not meet the needs of the labour market. And I don't think it's because the county doesn't want it. I don't think it's because it wasn't written in all the concepts, but it never came to an end. I think that the Ministry of Education has sinned a little in recent years on the fact that the responsibility for secondary education has been transferred to the region, and that it has stopped helping the regions in this matter, and that dialogue with employers has ceased. And that was a mistake. I consider it extremely important that we look at apprentice education to look at secondary education and connect it to the needs of the labour market. This can help. The next issue I want to mention is the issue of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. We believe - and I think that no one should threaten businessmen by perhaps being deprived of tax flats by the new government, that perhaps the new government wants to burden them with some contributions that send them to the labour authorities. It's not like that. But tax flats are an instrument of reducing administrative burdens, they should not be an instrument of tax optimization, and unfortunately they have become a tool of tax optimization a little bit. But it certainly is true that the government does not want to complicate the lives of small craftsmen, small businessmen, increase contributions or reduce the possibilities of spending flats, and we want to look for ways to further reduce bureaucracy and reduce administrative burdens. When I talk about the business environment and infrastructure, an important part of the infrastructure that will affect future prosperity and employment - and now I am still talking about the new economic policy - is the issue of the state's energy policy. The trends and trends are indicated in the programming declaration. The government is claiming the need to build new nuclear resources in our country so that after 2035 we do not enter the position of a country dependent on imports, on significant massive imports of electricity. But what we care about is the issue of electricity prices for households, for people and for businesses. And we're not gonna make our own decisions here. We are part of Europe. And I want to say that the government will act in Europe so as not to drive industry out of our country and Europe at all. I want to say that we will act in such a way that we do not further increase the electricity bills paid by households by premium for renewable resources. [[12.40 hours]] I think that energy market regulation has not gone very well in Europe in recent years and it is a bit of a mess because allowances are combined and subsidies for renewable resources are combined. We all see what the price of power energy looks like, but households don't feel it, companies just don't feel it because even if the price of power energy is falling, extras for renewables are rising. Our energy concept will think about electricity prices, first of all, so that we do not damage industry and households, and secondly, so that we act responsibly towards the future and do not find ourselves in a country that will be totally dependent on imports of electricity. Speaking of the future and the responsibility of the government and the growth in the coming years, I think we agree, and I hope that at least on this issue, left to right and right to left, that the future prosperity of our country will not be based on wage cuts to encourage wages that are in Romania or Bulgaria. It will not be based on tax reductions because, as the Czech Republic, we cannot compete with tax havens, but future competitiveness must be based on investment in education, investment in science, research, innovation. And what we need is quality in this area, efficiency, so that we know that we support top science workplaces, that there are top universities that are able to do applied research, that it is applied research that needs an industry that needs an economy. This means the future is - and we are creating it now, and we are laying the foundations in these years - in investing in science, research and innovation. I also want to say, when I talk about the budget and economic policy - the government wants social dialogue. I'm saying this because it's not for granted. Social dialogue has not worked in recent years. It was often so that after tripartite press conferences were held, there were gunfires between the government on one side and trade unions and employers on the other. It was a mistake, because in those shootouts, a number of good ideas came together, and a number of good tripartite ideas never made it to the end. The government has good will to have a dialogue with the unions. The government is ready to have a dialogue with companies, with employers, with their representation, and I believe that together we will work to remove barriers on the path of economic growth. And I would like to ask you, Members of Parliament, for one thing. When we come to the Chamber of Deputies with bills and they will be bills that support tripartite as a whole, so that you see this argument as a very strong argument, because if the representation of employers and employees can agree on something, then it is a signal of the society-wide consensus and the need for such changes. And the final comment on the new government's economic policy before I get to topic number one. 2, which is the correction of reform errors, the link to the management of public budgets and the adoption of a common European currency. I believe that the government, while emphasising investment, should place emphasis on employment, even if it corrects some of the mistakes made in social policy in recent years, should keep public budget deficits below 3% of GDP. I can only imagine a single situation where the government should not comply with this commitment, and that would be a situation if we again fell into the economic recession that we have had to face in recent years. Yes, if there is a recession, then the debate is whether a 3% limit should be respected. If the recession is not, and I believe that it will not be in the coming years, and that our country has a good period of economic growth ahead of us, and that the government will contribute to this if the economy grows, then the government should strive to comply with a maximum of 3% of the public budget deficit. Why do I say that? Because our country's overall public debt is already at a different level than it was seven years ago. It's about 48% of gross domestic product. In order not to make it impossible for us to adopt a common European currency, we must be very careful not to exceed 60 per cent of the gross domestic product. And speaking of the euro, the government should actively continue to prepare for its adoption. And as part of the preparation for the adoption of a common European currency, I also see accession to a fiscal pact at EU level. With the exclusion of those articles that could complicate our active economic policy in these years, I think the Czech Republic can join the fiscal pact very quickly, and it will be one of the topics that the new government will be the first to deal with if it gains confidence in the vote in the Chamber of Deputies. So many, honourable Members, a few comments on the new economic and budgetary policy of the government. Now let me focus on the second priority that I have identified at the outset, and this is an attempt to correct at least some of the errors in the reforms of Topolánkův and Nečasův' government. You know, we can't put everything back the way it was seven years ago. Where I am most sorry about taxing value added taxes, because when the right-wing government came in seven years ago, we paid when we bought food and medicines, a tax of 5% on the state, today we pay 15%. It can't be put back simply and quickly at the moment. Nor can all the mistakes and damages that have taken place in the past seven years be corrected. This will require gradual action which will be consistent with the country's budgetary possibilities. But the government coalition has agreed on some concrete measures to clearly signal that we care about socially coherent societies, that we do not want one's success to be paid at the expense of others, that we want solidarity in our country between the richer and the poorer, between the healthy and the sick, between the young and the old. Our goal is to reduce the unfair and socially harsh measures that have been taken in recent years and have mainly affected families with children, seniors and also disabled. That's why we're going to take the next few steps. One. We want to increase the support of families with children. We're going to propose an increase in the tax on the child. We also want to renew the birth rate to the other child, because we think that the policy of one child who has been practiced here in recent years in the form of payment of the birth rate is really not appropriate in our demographic situation. We want to focus these measures on supporting working families with children, because we think that in recent years working families with children have paid a lot due to the austerity measures that have been promoted by past governments. We will gradually cancel health fees, except for emergency payments. This year we agreed not to allow the renewal of the hospital fee, and from next year we would like to cancel the fees in ambulances and pharmacies. However, we want to compensate for the failures of the health system, which means that they will be prepared to compensate and will have to participate clearly in these compensations. I was talking about seniors. I think the biggest blow the seniors had was to change the pension system, to start ignoring the overall level of inflation and only take account of one third of it. The seniors have lost much of their valorization. All of us have encountered the great disgust with the level of 45 crowns, which has been provided on average since the beginning of this year. The new government wants to respond to this situation. We want to respond to the increase in the proportion of seniors who are dependent on the benefits of material distress. That is why our goal is to return to the full globalisation of pensions according to inflation. We also want the damage to workers' pensioners to be eliminated, and we would like to renew the tax relief that workers have received in the past. With regard to measures which are still aimed at strengthening social cohesion, I want to mention the law on social housing, I want to mention the reduction of value added tax on medicines, books, diapers and artificial child nutrition. We will also cancel the second pillar in the framework of pension reform. We want to adjust the rules for granting the allowance for care and disability pensions so that they take fair account of the real health situation. We want to enforce the Act on advance maintenance, and we are ready to increase the minimum wage regularly after negotiations in tripartite to close 40 percent of the average salary in our country. [[12.50 hours]] So much for some of the key measures that the new government has prepared to mitigate the situation of some groups that have been severely damaged by the reforms of the previous government. And here I'm not just talking about the socially weak, but I'm also talking about the middle layers that have paid very much for these past reforms. Finally, honourable Members, on the third part of the priorities that I have mentioned. As has already been said, and we meet at every turn, people have slowly had to get used to paying ever higher taxes in recent years, but they are getting worse public services. This is a state the new government wants to change. Our goal is the proper functioning of the state. Citizens should be assured that they will receive high-quality and affordable public services for their taxes, and we will therefore support measures that will lead to effective, transparent and rational public money management. Our goal is a functioning, socially and environmentally oriented market economy. But a number of measures must be put in place to enable the state to serve citizens well. I'd start with the Civil Service Act. That's the Godot we've all been waiting for on our political scene for 12, 14 years. The Godot still hasn't come. I want to declare the will of this government to enforce the law so that it will apply from 1 January next year. I think it is fair that the government, which has the Civil Service Act in its programme, should draw upon itself the restrictions that this law will bring. Not that it will be true for those other governments, not that they will have to deal with it with other political safeguards, but that they will apply the restrictions of that law already to this government. That's what I want to promise you. The amendment is in the Chamber of Deputies. Once we agree on the amendments, it should be a law that must apply. What's going on? The issue is that when the next elections to the Chamber of Deputies are held, the risks of political replacement of the expert apparatus of the ministries will be addressed here. And I think we should push it together. Two. When talking about wasting public money - we need to improve the public control system. And I'm not just talking about the Supreme Audit Office. It is constantly said and created an illusion that the problem will be solved by extending the powers of the SAO. Let's do it. Let's expand the powers of the SAO, and the government is counting on it in its program. But we need preliminary control. We need continuous control. We don't just need to find out how bad things went, how money was wasted. We need to stop wasting money, if possible, before it happens. This means strengthening information systems, strengthening control systems within all public authorities, so that the controllers are not afraid of being politically dependent and that there is access to information. We need to limit expensive outsourcing. This is a matter that has been rampant in the state administration in recent years, not only in the public administration, but also in some cities with a large budget, and it turns out that the liquidation of their own workers, the layoffs of their own employees and the hiring of services in the form of outsourcing does not always bring savings. And sometimes it even brings an increase in expenditure. And here the government has to ruthlessly look at the question of outsourcing, and if we find that providing legal services, various counselings we are able to organise better through our own public sector workers, then please end up with this practice because it is expensive and because the state is not worthwhile. We also need an improvement in the management of state companies and the removal of money supply, which has been built around them very often. I believe that the police will undoubtedly also help this government to help it through the prosecutor's office. A lot of things are being investigated and saved. Way to go! Let's get this checked out, let's get all these things investigated. I think it takes a lot of these cases to be visible so that people can see what's going on so that it can never happen again. The state needs to know exactly what's going on at state firms. They must check their economic situation and, if the economic situation is not satisfactory, they must make personnel and organisational changes. Another subject that I want to mention and which is related to the functioning of the state - but it also has to do with the question where you take it, and I have already partly answered it - is a matter of combating tax dishonesty, against thieves, fraud, against profiting at the expense of someone else, against having an unequal business environment here, because on the one hand, you have an entrepreneur who has everything fulfilled, paid for, and on the other hand, you have an entrepreneur who is cheating and has lower prices. I don't think she's okay. Tax evasion and combating are one of the key priorities of the government. Among other things, because, in my opinion, until the government clogs the holes until it removes the contributions, it does not have the right to go to citizens with the issue of 'citizens, we need additional resources in the state budget'. Until that happens, the government doesn't have that kind of authority in my opinion. In particular, only a few examples. Electronic sales log. You know there's been talk, talk, talk about registers in our country. The law has already been passed, it's finally been abolished. We want a new generation of cashiers in the form of terminals that will be linked online to the Ministry of Finance and will record sales electronically. In Slovakia, the system, supplemented by the receipt lottery, although briefly, shows significant results in terms of improving the collection of value added tax. In the programme we propose a reduction in the limit for cash payments. We're proposing a law to prove the origin of the property. Again, a thing that has been talked about for years and years. No government has dragged him to the end, just always pointing to cases, strange cases of sudden wealth, and always accompanied by the sigh: Well, if we had a law on proof of the origin of property, that would be different. I agree, it would be different. But please, for God's sake, let's have him pay as soon as possible. I believe that the government will bring the law into the legislative process as soon as possible, and ideally from next year, such a law should apply here. We're talking about restoring the financial police. We are talking about improving coordination of police work, tax administration, customs administration and the Financial Analytical Service. When I talk about improving the state's management, it is also about improving the management of its assets. And it's not just the record, it's also the effective use of state property. How is it that, on the one hand, it is declared that the number of civil servants is decreasing, but at the same time the state is unable to dispose of the necessary assets? This means that the administration, which should theoretically decrease, is still filling in the same amount of state and public buildings. We consider it important to promote a system of publication of contracts concluded in the public sector. When we mention a well-functioning state and public services, well-functioning labour offices and an active employment policy. You know, an active employment policy is something that is needed in a modern country. And when you look at those countries that have better unemployment numbers in Europe than my Czech Republic, and you look at how much money they give to active employment policy, it is multiplied by what it is in the Czech Republic. Let me give you a specific example of Austria. Austria is a country that is close to us. They put about 2 per cent of gross domestic product on active employment policy and consistently have better results in terms of unemployment than the Czech Republic. We give half a percent of gross domestic product. Thus, a new active employment policy focused mainly on groups that are handicapped in the labour market, on graduates without practice, on women after parental leave or on people over 50 years of age. As regards improving the functioning of the state, I also want to mention the issue of available kindergartens, I want to mention the issue of effective health care and the transparent functioning of health insurance companies, strengthening consumer protection, including the guarantee that people will receive quality food in stores. I would like to mention the limitation of usury and the will of private executors in the new legislation that the government wants to put forward. I want to mention the fight against social exclusion. I want to mention the police stabilization, the strong position of prosecutors, the independence of justice. I want to mention the strengthening of citizens' rights, including the adoption of a general referendum law. Finally, if the country is to function well, if the government is to be able to push for something, inter alia, negotiate within the European Union, inter alia, to promote our national interests, then we must significantly improve our reputation in the world - with neighbours, in the European Union, in the international community. [[13.00 hours]] Our friends should not learn about the Czech Republic unless we veto some integration effort at European Union level or if the government falls here in connection with scandals. We need to increase our influence in Europe in order to be able to promote our national interests better, and that means that we cannot stand aside, and that means that we must actively participate in the debate on what Europe will be like in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, these were the three key priorities that the government has. These are the three key priorities that intersect the entire government program. A new economic policy aimed at growth, prosperity and new jobs, the correction of the mistakes made in the reforms of Topolánkův and Nečasův' government, and the good functioning of the state, the sound and transparent management of taxpayers' money. These three priorities will be promoted by the new government if it gains your trust. We would like to restore people's trust in the state. They restored the trust of citizens, but also of entrepreneurs, in the chance of our country's prosperity. We would like to restore our citizens' confidence in politics and the democratic system. The new government, honourable Members, is ready to do everything to make citizens feel comfortable in our country, to feel free, but also to feel dignified and safe. So that people wouldn't have to be ashamed of their state and, on the contrary, be proud of it. It will not be a simple task, but we are ready to do our utmost to achieve it. We are also prepared, and I want to emphasise this, in order to improve the situation in our country to have a dialogue. To conduct a dialogue with the opposition here at the House of Deputies, to conduct a dialogue with the professional public, with citizens' initiatives, with citizens, with everyone who, like us, seeks a stable and prosperous Czech Republic. honourable Members, I hereby ask you to express my confidence in the new Government of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u3	I thank the Prime Minister and I am opening this debate, in which Mr Filip has now signed up with priority right. After that, Mr Kalousek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u4	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the question of the Government's trust in the Czech Republic and to borrow one topic that I wanted to speak here in 2006. The 2013 elections were supposed to be a great hope for the Czech Republic, and people decided in those elections to reject certain procedures that were introduced here after 2006. In any case, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia after the establishment of the government is the strongest opposition club of the Chamber of Deputies in this respect. But the question of trust is not only a question of the Constitutional Institute, that is to say more than 101 Members in the Chamber of Deputies, but it is also a question of citizens' confidence in government, parliament and the state or its institutions. The Prime Minister said that he would want to restore the trust of citizens of the Czech Republic in the state. This, however, is not a question of trust in the constitutional sense or, if you wish, in the parliamentary sense. It is a question of the credibility of the institutions that we present to the public. After all, gaining trust with citizens is something more complex, and it also has different parameters than the expression of more than 101 Members. The Coalition has more than 101 Members, and it is without doubt that it should therefore find in itself enough strength to ensure that trust in the government of the Czech Republic is accepted. This means, however, that the government should return not only to the programming declaration but also to how it will be able to fill out individual promises. In this respect, I am a little disappointed by the government's statement, because, in particular, social democracy, and KSČM is a critic of this government from the left, has left a number of programming points and has been imposed on it by a program that moves the Czech government against the election result significantly to the right center or to the right. I could remember this topic, which is absolutely essential for the Czech Republic and which moved the election campaign and did not stop moving it even after the elections, and this is the question of religious restitution, or so-called religious restitutions, better to say the gift of the Czech Republic to the churches for something that can easily be called into question that sometimes belonged to these churches. Do not want me to calculate individual requests and link them to the dates of the formation of those churches or to the dates of the creation of those buildings that are asked for today, which have nothing to do with 1948, or 1960, or even 1970 or 1980. And I'm talking about vocational schools, apartment buildings, and others. What struck me the most, and I do not understand that it does not define itself in any way in a government statement, and even the Prime Minister did not mention it in his speech, the Act on a general referendum. I have already mentioned that the general referendum was part of the Czechoslovak rule of law until 1992 and only Act No. 4/1993 Coll., so called. The receptionist standard was that the right-wing governments of that time dealt with the possibility for people to speak into politics at all. Yes, in 1993 the opportunity of citizens of the Czech Republic ended up expressing itself in a referendum, because the right limited the possibility of entering politics only to an act of elections. In this respect, I wonder to the new government that this is not one of the priorities to be a helpful step towards citizens, so that possible corrections to government policy may be a referendum, so that possible corrections can restore the credibility of government before citizens. On the other hand, I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by the Prime Minister's speech that, after all, he strengthened the position of property confessions against what is in the text of the government statement. There's nothing saying a sentence or half a sentence about proving the origin of property to me because it's like Ivo Rittig's release from a police cell. Does this mean that we will remain in front of the gates of the private sector, which has been involved in robbing state property, in strange privatizations, in even more strange public procurements, and will we not evaluate it as neighboring Germany or France? I do not really understand this, and I would like to believe the Prime Minister's words that, after all, the law on property returns will see the light of day and will be approved by this Parliament. Nor can I be satisfied with what has been said about taxes. It is evident that the tax system that has been adopted in the last seven years has clearly deepened the economic and thus the social and political crisis in the Czech Republic. [[13.10 hours]] It was the tax measures of right-wing governments since 2006, which devastated the state budget, its revenue. And all the costs of running the state were concentrated in indirect taxes or taxes on dependent activities. In this regard, it was the fear of right-wing governments to look citizens clearly in the eye and say: we need so much and so much resources to run the state, and we will do such an honest civil service for them. In this respect, I think that the government's statement is incorrect and will prove it very soon. Not only on how the deficit will grow, but it will also bind the necessary investments for which the government will have to look for resources elsewhere. On the other hand, I think that the government could have shown, in a more pronounced way, a change in communication not only between government and opposition, between government, trade unions and employers' unions, but also with self-government. I miss the government statement, and I don't know if it's due to internal disputes within the government party, the relationship between the center and the county. In my opinion, not to describe the link between the Association of Regions and the Government of the Czech Republic is a flawed step which shows that the government is either unclear in this regard or does not want to address the relationship between government and regional government. We are constantly witnessing the debate on the budgetary determination of taxes, and we have seen it many times, and I would remind you from 1995 to 2006, 2008 to 2011 that when the centre lacked money, it was done at the expense of municipalities and regions. And in that regard, it is. I guess. It is not valid that the Prime Minister at least stated in his speech how the government wants to behave towards the regions in the field of education. Let me remind you that I am a little sorry, and I was expecting a fundamental change against the past in the field of foreign policy. There are almost nothing to be said about changes in the foreign policy of the Czech Government. Because it is necessary to realise that the Czech Republic is part of not only the European Union but also other international institutions, and we should at least stop thinking about getting involved in some strange space and not respecting that it is no longer a bipolar world. The one-polar world has long ended, or recently ended, and we should somehow be involved in building a multipolar world. This is what I really miss in the programming statement, and I would like us to continue with these debates, because, in my opinion, it is also a question of the ability of the Czech Republic to bring its share to what we say is the basic security architecture of the UN and its Security Council. In this respect, at least distant from the fact that the Czech Republic votes, for example, only with Saudi Arabia, Qatar, or some island states, and finds itself on the brink of foreign policy throughout the United Nations General Assembly. And I don't just mean the question of voting on Palestine, which was a real shame. I expected the Secretary of State to prepare something more forceful for a government statement. What I may regret from the point of view of the citizens of the Czech Republic is that I expected a different tone in the field of health policy, in the field of social policy. But I expect the government to keep at least the promises that are there, and that we will be able not only to participate in the abolition of the second pillar of pension reform, but also to participate in the renewal of the Act on non-profit-making health establishments, because, in my view, it is no longer possible to insist on creating in the health sector profitable organizations that are precisely designed to generate profits, not to care for the sick on their own. I expected a government statement that those systems would return to what they were set up for. We don't have police for the police, but for the safety of the citizens. We don't have health care for paramedics, we have health care for the sick. We do not have a social system for individual subjects of the social system, but it is for those who need social care. In this respect, at least I lack the mention of a return to what individual state systems are meant to serve. And I cannot but patiently control the individual steps of the government and the words of the Prime Minister, which he gave in his opening words, so that in four years at least we can see that it will be better served, less indebted, more open to the needs of citizens, and that what has been devastated here by non-political policy, or by the inability to communicate between the government and the opposition, will be corrected. The way I see it, the government is ensuring its trust. In conclusion, let me comment on the fact that trust, credibility consists of both the programme and the government's staffing. I don't want to evaluate individual ministers just because of possible personnel decisions before they gained confidence. I'll evaluate them according to the steps they've taken. But at the same time, I believe that some ministers will probably not bear the weight of the ministerial engagement and will have to be replaced. That's what happens in life. And I would like the Prime Minister to have a happier hand in possible exchanges than in the selection of this government itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u5	Thank you. Another registered priority is Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the TOP 09 MEP, as we will do in the vote on trust, and justify this procedure. First of all, I would like to stress that we welcome the fact that the mandate is adopted by the government that emerged from democratic elections, and that after eight months of timelessness we have a government that is undoubtedly legitimate, will have the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies and the right and the duty to carry out its mandate. So let me wish the government every success in managing the country and in building international prestige of the Czech Republic. It is not automatic that the opposition party must necessarily voice distrust to the government or refuse to express confidence in the government. We can imagine that even though we would differ with the government in many parameters, provided that it was the rule of law and respect for the laws, the government of budgetary responsibility and the government that would take seriously systemic action against corruption, that we could also express confidence in such a government. Unfortunately, neither of these three criteria I mentioned meets the government. And allow me now to justify my claim. The rule of law and respect for the law. I would say that the legislature must have the greatest respect for the law itself, namely, we as the Chamber of Deputies, and, of course, the government as an executive committee of this Chamber of Deputies. The government was founded on the fact that it agreed and supported the ignoring of one law. We may have different views on the law of illustration, we may be in favour of its abolition, we may insist on its preservation, but we should probably agree across this Chamber that, as long as any law applies, it must be observed without exception, it must be observed by everyone. The fact that, in the case of the rendering law, some elects do not have to comply with this law is disrespect for the law, disrespect for the law, and a very bad signal that the government sends to society. [[13.20 hours]] Let me give you a second example, someone might think it's marginal, but it's basically the same thing. In the programme section of the coalition contract, we can read that the government is considering the third rate, i.e. the reduced rate of value added tax, where children's diapers will be included among other commodities. I do not want to argue now about the unsuitability of the third rate of value added tax, I do not want to argue with the emotional faith of Minister Jurečka about how diapers at a reduced rate will save Europe's naturality. I just want to point out that the 6th Directive of the European Commission clearly states which items may and may not be at a reduced rate of value added tax. And the 6th directive is, in a broader sense, part of the legal order of the Czech Republic, because Member States are obliged to implement this directive into our legal order and not to violate it. When I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs in a private interview, how the government wanted to do this, I got the answer: Well, we're going to transfer it to a reduced rate. When we're in danger of sanctions and we don't negotiate an exception until then, we'll put it back in. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly how notorious alimony payers behave. Non-payment of alimony is a criminal offence, the law prosecutes, and the notorious non-payment of alimony doesn't apply, and at the time the charges are brought against them, they show effective regret, pay the lady back, and the prosecution is stopped against them. The lady was unlucky, you shouldn't have messed with that person. This is exactly how the Government wants to behave against the 6th Directive, i.e. in a broader sense against the legal order of the Czech Republic. We're on the law... We're gonna ignore the law, and when we're threatened with sanctions, we're gonna fix it. Europe's bad luck, you shouldn't have started anything with us. On these two examples, I took the liberty of showing true respect for the laws, respect for the rules, and an effort of equal conditions for all where the government should set an example instead of laughing at the laws in this way. Allow the second part, part of the budgetary responsibility. In the Government's programming declaration, the government undertakes to comply with the Maastricht criteria. The President mentioned that there are three of them - five of them, two of them fiscal, three of them monetary, but that's not the point. The interpretation of the Maastricht criterion of 3% of GDP deficit is essential. The correct interpretation is that deficits must be below 3% in the long term and crediblely sustainable. This, please nicely, is not 2.99 in the praying economic growth, which is the budget for which you voted for 2014. And it certainly doesn't match the government's programming statement. The most important indicator of the long-term and sustainable deficit is below 3%. structural deficit. And at the end of April, you will be aware that the structural deficit, which is now below 2%, because it will have to reflect the government's programming statement, will increase by at least a percentage in the convergence programme that the government is submitting to the European Union within the framework of the European Semester. The structural deficit for 2015 will be close to 3%. And then I ask where there is room for those generous growth expenditures that the government promises in terms of investment in science and research, infrastructure or agricultural policy. There are two options, and I think the President has already mentioned them. Either the Maastricht criterion will not be complied with and the trend of gradual deficit reduction will turn to a significant increase in these deficits, or the state budget structure will deteriorate even more. Maybe you haven't noticed, even in the budget you voted for, he's got 24 billion for nothing. higher spending, so is the lowest share of investment in the last seven years. And if the government wants to meet the 3% deficit and comply with its generous actions in the area of benefits, valuations and public health benefits, then there will not necessarily be money left over for the pro-growth expenditure promised in the programming declaration, and if the government wants to implement these pro-growth expenditures, then it cannot keep 3%. It's not ideology, it's simple numbers. And what's most interesting about it is that the government knows it, and many of you know it. You simply know that the objectives, as set out in the government's programming statement, are mutually exclusive that at least one will not be respected and not sustainable. And while you know that the text is completely untrustworthy, the government is asking the Chamber of Deputies for confidence and wants the Chamber of Deputies to believe it. The third reason or criterion, which we believe the government does not respect and cannot comply with, is systemic access to corruption. What's socially most dangerous about corruption, demotivating and destructive, after all, isn't the plastic or the money box. This really dangerous, the poisonous fruit of this corruption, is the decision that someone, whether for a bribe or for some other reason, someone equipped with public authority, makes decisions not in the public interest, but for private interest. That's the problem. This must not be allowed even as a risk. I would argue that the scope of the interests of Agrofert and the powers of the Minister of Finance intersect to such an extent that the Minister of Finance will not be in conflict of interest only in exceptional cases if it decides and therefore the government will be in a permanent corruption environment. The opponents of this view often point out that this is simply impossible, as the Minister of Finance and the Government for this reason will be under such a small measure and under such a microscope that nothing like this can simply happen. I would like to say from a long range of examples, but I do not want to delay you, I would like to mention at least two where no microscope or telescope simply can work because it is completely undetectable. The Minister of Finance is a decisive person or, if you want, the Ministry of Finance is the primary guarantor of all legislation concerning the banking sector, capital markets, savings banks and credit cooperatives. It is also a regulator for some financial institutions. And the Minister of Finance is also an important player in the capital market, because with borrowing needs of about 220 billion. The koruna cooperates annually for a huge volume of emissions with some banks, which it itself decides, this is not subject to the approval of the government. These are the powers of the Minister of Finance. [[13.30 hours]] The owner of Agrofert has loans roughly - I don't know how much, but it is certainly in the tens of billions of crowns. Where, how do you want to check, ladies and gentlemen, that there will not be a very favorable agreement between the banks, whether in legislation or in contractual terms with issuers, for Agrofert and its subsidiaries? The only way to find out is if the Minister of Finance and the owner of Agrofert published all the credit agreements in one person. They're subject to bank secrets. You can't ask anyone to do something like this in a free world. It will be absolutely unverifiable whether this is happening and how massively. And because it's going to be completely unverifiable, it's also going to be completely unbelievable that it's not happening. Example two. I would like to say that any financial industrial group, even smaller than Agrofert, would give anything for the flow of information from the Bank Board. Once a month, the Bank Board meets and the Board hears information which is strictly classified precisely so that no one in the competition area gets exclusive access to this information and cannot, at the expense of others, distort competition, use it to their advantage. The Minister of Finance has free access to the Bank Board from his post. There is no mechanism not to allow him access to the Bank Board, and no one will ever know to what extent the very confidential information he has heard there will be used not in the public interest, but for his private benefit, because no one will ever see it. It will be completely unverifiable whether he did it or not. And because it will be completely unverifiable, it will also be absolutely unbelievable that this will not happen. And if you don't mind, the third example that can be seen - that is why I mention it - but the line between private and public interest will be indistinguishable to such an extent that no one will ever decide about it. I consider the term "food security" to be a very dangerous term in the government's programming statement. It sounds very nice. If we did a public poll, which one of us wants us to have food security, it will certainly be overwhelmingly victorious, because we would all like to be food-safe. When we translate into Czech, what it really means on the single European market, it means nothing more than that the government undertakes to grant such subsidies to the agrifood complex so that consumers have their food at the same price and as poor quality from a domestic producer who is not able to compete with a foreign supplier. Even if we did - I consider this approach dangerous, but please, I do not claim to be the bearer of a single truth. If we wanted this - and I claim again that the term food safety is not comfortable for consumers, i.e. for customers, but is comfortable exclusively for producers. But even if we wanted that comfort for domestic producers and decided that it was the right policy - I do not agree with it, but do I just take note that the government has this policy and someone can also like it - so please, where is the border, where will it still be food security and already the subsidies of uncompetitive producers on the domestic market? Based on what criteria, how do you distinguish it? It will always be an opinion against the opinion. It will never be objectively verifiable. And since it won't be objectively verifiable, it's not even believable. Just the only person who fulfills both those functions, that is, ownership rights and the Minister of Finance, will be in the next dozens and dozens of cases in the daily conflict of interest, in the daily temptation that he will use the decision or information obtained for the benefit of the group he owns. And it's up to you if you want to believe that the Finance Minister is morally equipped to that extent, that he'll never, ever, ever do it. Or that he's just gonna do it because it's gonna be convenient. And no one can ever find out. The question of faith is nice, but a transparent environment is only possible if it is verifiable. If you can check it out. And those are dozens of cases, I took the liberty of stating three where it's just not verifiable, where you can't check. Then you have no choice but to believe or not to believe, and that is very risky. It's called corruption. No one can claim that corruption will occur, but the environment encourages it directly. And I would like to say that if such a corrupt environment were used because it could be used, it could simply be used, in which case we are entering a completely different stage of the corruption risk that the Czech Republic has known over the last 25 years. A phase I call a model "self-godfather." A phase where the godfathers who lobbied can be remembered as innocent kittens, because this is gonna be a tiger. Sher Šerchán samý. And I'm afraid the Prime Minister won't be Mauglí. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think unbiasedly about the arguments that I have made in all three criteria that we consider essential, you will understand that the government of disrespect for the laws, the government of budgetary irresponsibleness, and the government of an unprecedented corruption environment cannot gain our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u7	Thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club, Miroslav Kalousek. I will still read the priority rights, but before the priority right one factual remark by President Faltýnek. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u8	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly a factual point. The former Minister of Finance and the informal Prime Minister of the previous government spoke here about food safety in relation to subsidies. I'm terribly sorry, but it's been a couple of times since he mixed up his concepts. We, through Mr President, my colleague, have food security in our programme. This is about wanting the food that is produced here, but also imported, to be safe for our citizens. And then food self-sufficiency, that's what you've been talking about, and it has a link to subsidies. And we know how governments, where you worked as Finance Minister, or you sat in those governments, and your coalition party was responsible for this resort, where they led the resort. They led him to leave the resort because the funds didn't go, 40 grand left. People, and that's a shame. It's hard to fix this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u9	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek's point of view, and then perhaps priority rights and others. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u10	Yes, thank you for your warning, Mr President, through Mr President. I realized I was misreading. This means that my argument concerns the term food self-sufficiency, not security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u11	Thank you. I quote priority rights as they are logged in. Vice-President Jermanová, Vice-President Gazdík, President Okamura, President of Radim Fiala, Chairman of ODS Petr Fiala, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, Minister Dienstbier and Deputy Prime Minister Babiš, this is the order of priority rights, and then the President of ODS. Now Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová with her speech. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u12	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, it is said that trust gives more than intelligence to talk. I ask myself what is the point of expressing trust to the government. If we could find enough time to discuss the stenographic records of speeches that have been made in this hall for the last 20 years, I think we would always come across the same format of this act. It follows a constant pattern: the government and its Members praise and defend themselves, criticize and attack the opposition. I'm not a complete rookie in politics. As a representative of the municipality and regional representative, I know the obstruction, the struggle for the majority, the defence and the criticism that the policy has followed. It's not even a saloon downstairs, and it's not always an idyll. Even there you often hear from your opponent: "You know, I agree with you, but I'm in opposition, so I can't say it." However, it is in a way fun and sad to see, at the same time, as if by waving a wand from the defenders of the current critic, from the defenders of the attackers, and it is only by principle: when they rule, everything is good when they do not rule, everything is wrong. It is therefore no wonder that this country reached early elections last year that a new government is waiting for your yes or no today. The change that voters forced was not merely caused by the affairs of leading politicians, as we often heard from them. They only became an inevitable catalyst, an explosion of overheated paprika. I believe that the citizens have spoken out against the practices that have been practiced, against the established mechanisms of power, governance and behaviour. That's why I wondered if it was real for the voters to stop and at least change what they wanted, if it was possible for the opposition not to swear just on the principle that there was opposition, so that people would not find themselves in schizophrenic positions when they criticized what they were defending recently. And so that we don't suddenly defend something that we rejected yesterday. I do not call for the famed serenity of the work of the infamous opposition treaty, nor do I claim that those who today ask the Chamber of Deputies for trust in government are flawless people, angels and saints on an astronomical clock with halos. I want to express the hope that what we have managed to enforce in this legislative body in a few months can become a small snowball that rolls down the slope and picks up more and more snow. I admit that in this extremely warm winter, in our Czech boiler it is a comparison that is considerably exaggerated. I don't want the public to see a snowball filled with mud and mud that has concentrated everything negative and destructive in recent years, which has disgusted even the statistically most average citizen of our country. I would like to remind you today that we are not here for personal exhibitions and the possibility to play seemingly clear and dealt roles live. Even for a play, it is always interesting and beneficial when the saint becomes the villain and the villain of limonádový Joe. I just want to point out that the 17 women and men to whom we trust here today are not a bunch of hotties who, based on beautiful, want to force their consent to rule, whose only goal is to keep four years of office space. It's not a set of people who will always smile at each other. I know that despite the coalition agreement, they often go into conflict with each other, but the programming declaration gives clear criteria and standards for their solutions. The government, which has come today to ask permission to implement its program, will certainly not bring us to paradise in a year or four years, nor will it offer such a thing. The government that has my trust, from the beginning, offers change, says how it wants to achieve it. I'm sure she's headed in the right direction from the shouting in the opponents' camp. The trailer in one of the TV channels recalls Čapkův's statement: "Imagine the silence if people were to say only what they know. " Is it really that hard to get close to it? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u13	Thank you, Madam Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová. Now two factual points before my colleague Gazdík. The first is a colleague, Beznoska, and the second, colleague Pavel Blažek. Now, on the point of fact, Mr Adolf Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u14	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, perhaps no one in this room knows the long-term political views of Vice-President Jermanová. Vice-President Jermanová is, as some unfortunately do not know, I have verified this over the weekend, a long-time former member of the Civil Democratic Party. She was nominated as mayor of the Civil Democratic Party, was one of the top regional representatives of the Civil Democratic Party, was a regional representative of the ODS. Always, and look at the vote, voted in accordance with the opinion of the ODS representative club by you so much criticized by Captain Petr Bendl. It has been and is known among the adolescenceists for its hatred of members of the Communist Party, its huge criticisms and its strong opponents and social democracy. What the Vice-President has done today is an incredible turn of view because I have known her for years. Unbelievable, which I can only explain by fooling around with the assets of the Czech National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u15	Thank you, Mr. Beznosk. Mr Pavel Blažek and then Mr Jaroslava Jermanová, then Mr Chalupa, with a factual remark from Mr Pavel Blažek, Vice-President Jaroslava Jerman. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u16	Hello, thank you for your word. My colleague Jermanová picked me up too, but for another reason. I was in the Alps yesterday, and that's why the snow picked me up. Let me put this very simply. This is not about it, and the concerns of the opposition are not about whether there will be mud on any snowball, but there is snow in Austria while it is not here, or fear is more about having some snow here after this government when I freely interpret it. And there's one thing I'd like to say. Please, let's not put out political slogans here anymore about the fact that there's some sort of crisis in our country. That's not true at all. Papies and stuff. The political views of citizens are clear by voting for certain subjects in elections, that is all right, but let us no longer talk about the crisis. Let us appreciate the world we live in. And go see either other countries, or look at what the real crisis was like in the 1920s, and let's not compare it again. Because it's so easy, that's how elections are made. We are constantly telling citizens what a terrible crisis is, and I will bring this state out of the crisis. But there is no crisis. There's a certain mood of the population, and that's what they said in the election, but let's not scare these people anymore. They don't live in a crisis, and I don't want them to find themselves in it because you know what it was from literature. And at the end of the day, the exact same thing. And now I say it with full seriousness. Gustáv Husák was noticed in Moscow when he said: "I will bring the nation out of this crisis. " But the fact that he was one of the people who got that nation into the crisis didn't talk about it anymore. We all lived here in the '90s, at a time that is now described incredibly dramatically and tragically, except someone made more money at that time because he was totally involved in it, and someone less, because he normally lived. And it is absolutely hypocritical to build political points today on what a tragedy it was when those who say so were always part of the political elites either under the previous regime or today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u17	Ambassador, your time is up. Thank you. Vice-President Jermanová on a factual point, then colleague Chalupa, also with a factual point. And then maybe he'll get into a colleague of Gazdík. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u18	Just a statement about Mr Beznosk through you, Mr President. Now that I'm thinking of it, he really should read my history here, because I became mayor independent. So that's one of the things. And the other thing. Yes, I've been a long-time member of the ODS, I've said it everywhere, I'm not hiding it anywhere, and at this point, I have to say I'm very glad I'm not in the ODS anymore, and the speeches of both of my previous speakers just convinced me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u19	Thank you. A colleague of Chalupa Bohuslav and then a colleague of Gazdík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u20	Thank you. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Please, we're not here today to evaluate what Mrs. Jermanová was doing, I don't know how many years or months ago. We're here today to vote on government trust. The government that got the majority in the parliamentary elections. So I don't know why personnel profiles are being dealt with here. That doesn't belong here at all in my opinion. I would like to reply to Mr Blažek through the President that we agree that there may be no material or economic crisis, but there is certainly a moral crisis in the whole of society that is caused by the long-term effects of the influences and effects that are being mentioned here. And as far as government statements are concerned, that's the construction that the workshop should be built inside. The coalition workshop and the constructive opposition, where these things should be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u21	Thank you. My colleague Blažek withdrew the factual comment and I can therefore give the floor to Vice-President Petr Gazdík. Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared as Chairman of the political party, respectively. movement. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u22	Dear Vice-President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will try to return it to the right formulas, i.e. to the government's programming statement, and I'm going to try to be factual, so it's not about whether there's anyone in the coalition or the opposition, but to serve the well-being of this country that we've all been running for. I'm a firm believer. We are to vote today on the trust of the government of Bohuslav Sobotka. Trust is a concept for me that cannot be taken lightly. Trust is something diametrically different than sympathy. Although some of the government's intentions, as it presents them in the government's statement, can be very sympathetic, and I believe that at least part of the government's MEPs mean it sincerely, I do not believe in the government's ability to fulfill the government's statement. Thus, to fulfill it, without substantially damaging the prospects of the Czech Republic to the future, deepened the debt of a country whose development we have only recently managed to slightly reverse, and thus de facto harmed the Czech Republic in an attempt to please it. As I have already said, I am not hiding that the government's programming declaration contains things that I would like as a citizen: more money to teachers and doctors, more money to health care, state-subsidised support for the employment of graduates or critical groups such as women after maternity leave or people before retirement, state-subsidised support for various godly activities and activities or a reduction in value added tax, lower rates of which have been said much in the electoral struggle and are no longer spoken of. But as a politician, unfortunately, I can't be content with just a delightful vision. I have to ask some unpleasant questions and material questions, to which I am unfortunately unable to find answers in Bohuslav Sobotka's programming statement. And I'll be specific. In some passages, the government's programming statement is very vague and general. Then suddenly, incomprehensiblely, specific. The validation of pensions is e.g. described with technical precision. We will learn that pensions will valorize by 100 percent of inflation and by a third of the growth in real wages. It is a pity that the government does not need to be similarly specific in its programming declaration when it assures us that it will ensure economic stability. How? That it will increase the efficiency and transparency of the public health system - again not described, unfortunately, how. That we do not know from what sources health will be stabilized or what steps will be achieved with the higher efficiency. Even in many other passages, this government's programming statement goes beyond the pre-election passwords. It is no more convincing and no more substantiated facts and figures. While it describes the already mentioned valorisation of pensions relatively precisely, although again without indicating from which resources it will be financed, in the case of teachers, the government is vaguely promising to seek gradual increases in the resources for the wages of pedagogical and non-teaching workers as well as for the modernisation of schools. How? How much? When? We won't know that in the government program. Such information is then completely worthless, since few governments would argue that they will not seek to gradually increase funds for the wages of pedagogical or non-teaching workers or to modernise schools. At least I don't remember the government we have here. Unfortunately, these passages of the government's declaration fall under the category of "promise you will not grieve" and speak incredibly little of the government's true intentions. I'll be specific again from my practice to the mayor and vice mayor. The government wants to introduce compulsory attendance at nursery schools for the last preschool year of the child. Some of the benefits of this measure are likely to be agreed on by all of us across the political spectrum. However, this measure will be very expensive and we all know what kindergarten capacity problems we are experiencing today. The government promises to give the municipalities money for this measure - and here I will quote - from European funds and a newly created national fund. As a municipal politician, I firmly hope that we will not see a repeat of the scenario where the government will delegate the obligation to the municipalities, but not the means and the fulfilment. We have seen this many times in different governments from different political parties. I have already criticized the fact that the government has not yet identified Bohuslav Sobotka in any way the expenditure that these generally defined items of government statements will require. We will not know what these well-intentioned intentions will probably be financed from, i.e. in addition to vague wordings, that the government, like all the governments before it, will audit the ministries and look for reserves. That is certainly the duty of every responsible economic operator. However, I do not share the naive idea of a government coalition that reserves are large enough to finance the utopian plans outlined in a government statement. I fear that if the government wants to meet at least some of its oversized objectives, it will be at the expense of a higher tax burden, a deepening of state debt or both. The same scenario has already been outlined by the President. Therefore, I thank the government for presenting to us, in the form of a government statement, its ideal, albeit a bit of an idea of the functioning of our country and our society. Like any ideal, this is passing away by limiting factors such as global economic risks, demographic situation in the Czech Republic and its expected development or also real state budget options. Unfortunately, I must reject this illusory idea of the future of the Czech Republic as a responsible politician and deny that confidence to the government that is presenting it to Parliament with a request for trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u23	I thank Vice-President Petr Gazdík. Mr Tomio Okamura, President of Radim Fiala, has now signed up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u24	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give a few words for our movement to vote on the government's trust. We in the Dawn movement promised voters under what precise conditions we would support the government. Basically, the only condition and the most important is the functional and feasible referendum law. And the law isn't self-serving. The fact that we are now voting on a new government is because the previous government, as before, did not rule in accordance with the will and interests of the citizens of this country. We in the Dawn movement are not the first or the last to say and argue that, in order not to repeat these problems, there is a need for a change in the system, and that is a radical change. The last word, the control authority, must have its owners in our country, i.e. citizens of the Czech Republic. You don't want it to be the case in the private sector, so it's the case here in the public administration. Each country administrator must have direct and deducible responsibility for its actions. To this end, a referendum law is necessary to enable citizens to amend, repeal or declare the necessary law if necessary. In practice, the point is that no one here wants to disturb parliamentary representative democracy, only it is promoted to a real democracy, that is, if the people's representatives fail at some point, then the supreme right of citizens to overrule their representatives is. During a single year, the originally discredited idea of a referendum succeeded in putting the majority of parliamentary parties on the agenda. This is undoubtedly the success of all Democrats in all parties involved. We have asked coalition parties to express themselves and to adopt or reject the fundamental principles of the general referendum so that, on this basis, in the Úsvit movement, we can decide on the trust of the government. Let me sum them up briefly. We want and ask that the announcement of a referendum is not prevented in practice by the high number of signatures needed to initiate a referendum or by another formal loophole. [[14.00 hours]] We ask that its validity be not bound by the number of voters involved, as with all other types of elections today - to the House, the region, the community and the Senate. Of course, as nobody restricts candidates for elections, we ask that the questions in the referendum are not restricted and that are limited only by their constitutionality, which will be decided by the Constitutional Court. If we propose to supplement the gap in the Constitution, where it is clearly stated that the constitutional law can determine when the people exercise state power directly, then the only thing we want is for such a referendum to be truly functional, real and in a form that would allow the people of the Czech Republic to exercise government in their country. If citizens are wise enough for Members and Senators to vote for them, I believe that Members and Senators will also admit to people the intelligence that they are able to vote on their own and the laws concerning them in some cases. Or does the voice of the citizens have a double weight? The government coalition is aware of the constitutional gap and the wishes and rights of our country's citizens, and therefore it will, without a doubt, prepare and submit a proposal for a referendum law. Today, however, it is quite clear that there will be a referendum, but the government is not going to fully accept that such a referendum is really applicable to citizens in practice. We have asked all three coalition parties to publicly declare whether they will support a genuinely functioning referendum law. All three coalition parties eventually responded. First, Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement, who was willing to talk about the parameters of the referendum, unfortunately, did not have a mandate from the whole coalition. We also received a reaction from KDU-ČSL and we received a letter from the Prime Minister and Chairman of ČSSD Bohuslav Sobotka. However, the view of the principle of referendum is different. We have made it quite clear to our voters that we will support a coalition that will support a genuinely functioning referendum law. Thus, despite our best will, we cannot give the government open trust. However, we want to give the government the opportunity to work and be constructive. That is why the members of the Úsvit movement will leave the hall when voting on the trust of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u25	Thank you, Mr Tomie Okamur. Mr Radim Fiala will take the floor, Mr Petr Fiala will prepare. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u26	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, Colleagues. Within a few years, I have heard a number of programming statements from governments in the House. No Prime Minister said: it will go badly, we will deepen the crisis, we will increase unemployment, we will increase taxes, corruption and crime, we will owe the country. None of them told the truth about how it would end. We have always listened to nice words here about reforms, changes and prosperity, efficiency and transparency. Voters and citizens deserve to hear this. After some time, government and opposition will take turns here, or a combination of figures will occur. The government's statement to the current government is nice. It's equally and perhaps even more nice than the statement I've heard earlier. I even think that he is accompanied by a sincere effort by a part of his colleagues to really make a difference. I would like to say where the government is in this country and where the opposition is. This country is ruled by people who redistribute foreign money. In fact, the opposition is those who make this money, i.e. citizens. Since it is redistributing more and more, the difference in politics between the right and the left has disappeared. The important thing is to divide, i.e. rule. Those in opposition have it harder and harder: pay more and more! Members of the Dawn of Direct Democracy have come to the House to defend the rights of people in opposition - those who pay the risk of business, taxes, or the feeling that this country is sending them down unfairly. We want more rights for people in the backyard, we want a direct democracy. The Act on the General referendum is the basis of the programme for us. Functional law, and not a legislative castrate in style: the wolf has eaten and the goat remains whole. If fundamental changes don't come and politics doesn't start working in the backyard, we will be listening here to programming statements that sound good, but they end badly. The Prime Minister's written reply, which we received before the meeting, is a general referendum, but he is also preparing instruments for castration of this law through parameters and limitations. That is why we will not speak today for the government's trust, but at the same time we will not be opposed at all costs, which rejoice in the failure and problems of this country. It's the same as in hockey. We will have different opinions on game tactics and team setup, but we want the Čech to win.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u27	I thank Mr Radim Fial and now, with priority right, the President of the ODS, Mr Petr Fiala, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek will prepare himself. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I have a slightly facilitated role to play here in following President Miloš Zeman's very comprehensive speech, who, in his speech before the Chamber of Deputies, spoke for a while as President of the Republic, for a while as Prime Minister, who is presenting his own programming statement, and for a while as an opposition Member, who is somehow dealing with a government statement. And I can definitely follow up on that. Miloš Zeman said here that the challenge of the opposition is to criticise and I would add: but not only! We, as the Civil Democratic Party, are really pleased that we finally have a political government, and we also respect that this is left-wing government after a few years of government. It is much better when left and right take turns than when non-political governments take turns with political ones. But this left-wing government does not and cannot have our trust. Untrustworthy is the way it came about and how it made it clear to citizens that laws can be changed for the benefit of one person and that they do not apply the same rules to all of us. But the program and plans of this government are equally untrustworthy. We certainly want to be, and we are committed to this, to being a constructive opposition, and we want to work with the government on certain matters, but unfortunately it does not make it very easy for us so far, because the programming statement that she presented before the Chamber of Deputies is very vague, unspecific and contradictory. When you remember Miloš Zeman's speech, he was talking about political visions and political dreams. However, I fear that this programming statement is also a dream, but a dream from which the government will wake up one day, and the awakening will be extremely difficult. Controversies are not only between the coalition agreement and the government statement, but we will also find contradictions in the government statement itself. For example, we do not know from what sources the government wants to finance pension valorisation, investment incentives, reception of new officials when it wants to maintain a budget deficit of 3% of GDP at the same time and cancel a number of revenues and cancel, for example, doctor's visit fees or recipes. These are actually typical left-wing solutions that the government is presenting to us here, left-wing solutions that cannot lead to real problems such as record unemployment or support for the Czech economy. It seems that Prime Minister Sobotka has not learned from the past and intends to make the same mistake that social democracy has already made. [[14.10 hours]] Even in 2002, and many of you will remember, the government under the leadership of social democracy promised a functioning social state, promised higher pensions, higher salaries, higher social benefits, promised improved infrastructure. Vladimír Špidla, who happens to be Mr. Prime Minister's chief advisor at the time, answered the question where social democracy, where the government will take its funds, answered: "Sources are." A year later, however, in May 2003, it turned out that there were no resources, and then Minister Sobotka publicly admitted that the promises of the socialists were not - I quote -'set in a real economic framework and today they will not stand up to reality'. And it appears that 11 years later, the same scenario will be repeated. Even today, the promises of a socialist government are not embedded in a real economic framework. Let me show you a few examples. One. It is not possible to promise to maintain a 3% deficit in the state budget and to prepare for the adoption of the euro while increasing the expenditure of the State at the same time. The state budget will have the highest expenditure of the Czech Republic and instead of reducing the deficit, the government wants to borrow additional funds. While our governments have gradually adjusted the decline in the state budget deficit to the end of 2013, when it reached CZK 81 billion, the new government has approved a budget that it has not prepared with a deficit of CZK 112 billion. That means turning the trend. This will undoubtedly mean a loss of investor confidence, and if this continues, we will see that the interest on which the State can borrow will also increase. Second example. It is not possible to promise a reduction in unemployment while increasing the minimum wage to create conditions for the grey economy. After all, minimum wage growth leads to unemployment, and this leads to unemployment growth in the least qualified part of the population. Companies won't be able to afford to employ people who won't make the company as much money as they cost the company. An increase in the minimum wage to the declared CZK 10,000 would undoubtedly mean an increase in the number of unemployed people. Third example. It is not possible to declare the support of businessmen while at the same time seeking to limit the level of flat-rate for businessmen. This will only lead to job losses, but also to creating worse conditions for businessmen. On the contrary, entrepreneurs need less bureaucracy, less taxes and less state control. Ladies and gentlemen, let us note that, for example, in 2011, more than half a million people from the total number of one million entrepreneurs who had this opportunity, and thanks to these flats, the tradesmen saved time and money that they could invest in their core activities, which is business and, of course, job creation. Fourth and final example. It is not possible to promise an inquiry in the state administration while declaring an increase in the number of civil servants, the creation of new offices and the award of external audits. I would just like to remind myself that this was precisely for the governments in which the civil democrats participated, when the number of civil servants fell. He's down 10,000, and their wages have dropped by 19 billion. And it was the first time ever when the state shrunk that way. I must also say that we are very surprised that a person who has been preparing for the role of prime minister for several years and who has also served as Minister of Finance has not come up with a concrete and clear plan to address unemployment and how to start the economy. Unemployment is combated by investment, creating more freer conditions for employers, concluding labour agreements, supporting part-time jobs, discounts on insurance employers, supporting flexible working time and a whole range of other specific instruments. We are also surprised that a person who is a manager and owns a large corporation is presenting or co-submitting a plan without specific numbers, without a timetable for what will be achieved, and without making a clear calculation of expenses and revenues and contradictions between them. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, civil democrats have no confidence in this government. And believe me, we're not just saying that because we're in a political opposition. Let us remember that untrustworthy government plans seem to a large extent to other actors in our public life, such as trade unions or employers. In his speech, President Zeman said that a government statement is a sort of collective promise. It's a commitment. And that's where we see the real problem. By the way, trust is also a commitment. When you trust someone, you believe that they will keep their promises and that they will do nothing to harm you. And we are not sure that the government will do anything to harm this country and to benefit its citizens. And that's not what the government's declaration convinced us of, and that's why this government can't have our trust. Miloš Zeman, in his speech, also took a large part of the responsibility for facilitating the establishment of this government. But ladies and gentlemen, we can't do that, and we won't. For the reasons I have presented here, the Civil Democratic Party will not support Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka's government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u29	I thank Mr. ODS Chairman Petr Fial. We now have a ministerial insert - with priority rights Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and Minister Jiří Dienstbier will prepare himself. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u30	Thank you. I, ladies and gentlemen, have heard a speech in which the government has been accused of excessive generality in its programming statement. I would, therefore, like to return the ball to the opposition's side, and also point out the excessive generality of its criticism. Let me give you a specific example. In his speech, Mr Fiala has now said such a relatively general sentence. He said that - it was formulated absolutely categorically - that raising a minimum wage leads, cannot lead, or leads to an increase in unemployment. That's what it said here. A few days ago, I met with Barack Obama's advisors chief, who was staying here in Prague. He is a rather well-known professor whose subject is the question of work. And he published not only a few, but eventually the whole extensive book, where he did experiments in selected territories where there was an increase in minimum wages. In his work, he demonstrated in a rather significant way that there is no correlation between raising unemployment and raising a minimum wage. Even in the debate I had with him, he told me to show him an analysis in which a similar correlation would manifest itself. He said he didn't know her. But this professor's work is quite world-renowned. So we have heard a rather sovereign statement that has been made here as if we should all believe it as the Holy Scriptures. You just increase minimum wage, so you increase unemployment. And, of course, this general claim was not substantiated by anything at all. All I know for sure, my friends, is that the right was in charge here, that the minimum wage was kept, that it didn't raise it at all, and unemployment was growing recordlessly. Well, that's something we've been experimenting on, and we already know that. We know that when the right doesn't increase minimum wage, unemployment is growing to record levels. And that's not general, this is a particular experience that we've made. So I would like to appeal to you when you say that you would like to have a more specific government, so your criticism should be more precise. [[14.20 hours]] On the other hand, I think that I do not consider the ideal programming statement in which the numbers, deadlines and deadlines will be in. I think that-- you know, we're in a situation that's not so clear at all. We don't know how the budget will develop this year. You know well that we are in quite a lot of turbulent times, an estimate of numbers such as economic growth is complex, that is, the reality is changing, just as reality was changing when you ruled, and those estimates of Mr. Kalousek became famous for the erratics that were extraordinary. That means that respect for not being able to put a number in the programming statement that we're not able to exactly plan growth there, that we're not exactly able to plan any tenths, which I think is appropriate. And what the programming declaration should offer. Unfortunately, I will try to tell you again in general, because it is a question of what the government should actually do, what situation we are in and what to do with it. I'll tell you for myself that I really feel it at the beginning in a pretty general way. I had a book in my hand recently by biologist Steve Kauffman. A rather well-known biologist. He wrote a remarkable book, I think it's called the Fourth Dimension. [[The law?]] Maybe some of you have read it. And he says that the world he lives in, biologically speaking, is showing an ever-increasing rate of entropy, which means an increasing degree of disorganization of the system. And Kaufman says that it's interesting that there's something very surprising in this world against this tendency, and that's life. A life that unfortunately, on the contrary, in its growing disorder, has a completely opposite effect. They're trying to create some kind of system in it, give it some sort of order. Don't let it fall apart. To me, this seems to be a good characteristic of the role of government. In fact, trying to create a system in this mess. Giving it rules, giving it predictableness, actually giving people in society a certain elemental certainty, not a big one, that's the realm of dreams now. And I think that's what the government that's entering should be dealing with. I'm sorry, there's been a question here several times. Someone asked, I think it was Pavel Blažek who said, "Don't talk about the crisis, it's not so bad, what we live in." This has been said more than once by the opposition. The situation isn't so bad! You're actually taking over the country in good shape. Almost. That's what they said. Let me get this straight. So let's get to the new government, so let's get to the point where it's taking over the country. It's good to say what we want from them, how the government is on the ground. Don't be mad at me, but I don't want to waste strong words, but perhaps I can afford to say that the situation in this country is not good. I even think that what we have observed in recent years was not just entropy, because the word entropy and growing disorder seem weak to me for what we have witnessed. That's a very fine word indeed. You know, I'm gonna give you examples of what we saw, what people saw and what was important to them. Remember, in this country, the government has fallen under extremely serious circumstances. I think there's been a destruction of trust in the institution. If the Prime Minister is leaving the way he left, if he's talking about using the Secret Service, if he's leaving because it's just impossible to go on like this because there's a suspicion of mob involvement, organized crime, that's the destruction of the institution. The destruction of an institution like the Prime Minister is a very serious matter. That's how the government ended up. The last one to rule legitimately here. That was the destruction of trust in the institution. You can't see that there's been a destruction of fundamental values here. Don't be mad at me if people see on TV the first Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs taking him away in knockers, so that's a pretty big destruction of trust in the institution and the values that apply in this country. Like the amnesty of President Václav Klaus, who was part of the previous executive, it was a huge destruction of values, a belief that in this country, if someone even committed a major economic crime, they would be punished for it. But we have witnessed that the perpetrators of the worst acts of economic crime were released to liberty and the victims of her actions could not be compensated for the assets they had lost. It's a huge destruction of values! I'm not exaggerating when I say this company was frustrated and frustrated! I believe that the destruction was what happened on the labour market. The destruction was what happened at the employment offices that ceased to function as someone who struggled to find jobs for people in times of serious economic problems. And that's not funny. Remember, if people don't have a job, that means immediate and immediate destruction of the family. You know, when there's no job, I'm in Ostrava, where there's a lot of cases. Unemployment is really high there. It's the destruction of families! I mean, you all have fantasies to imagine that the moment this guy loses his job, it's an extremely difficult experience for him, and even the families are falling apart. Don't talk about there's nothing here, there's a crisis, there's a very serious situation here. There's a high record unemployment that leads to families falling apart, values. It's just not easy! And at this point, it's very premature to talk about knowing the way out of this. The president here today spoke of a subject that is his favorite. President Miloš Zeman here spoke of the need to invest. It was said here that left-wing methods didn't work. So let me say that the government that was remembered here, for example, the one that started in 2002, the government passed on to the country in 2006 in a state that I am proud of today. If you take what economic growth was like here, 5 percent, what real wages were here, what certainty was here, social reconciliation existed here. The government handed over the country in which there was social reconciliation. You know, it's not true that left-wing recipes just don't work. We had nothing to be ashamed of. Despite all the trouble we've been dealing with, we've been handing it over in the country where I say - there hasn't been such entropy or such destruction of values. I am saying this because I am aware that even if we have to clarify what is meant by the fact that left-wing recipes do not work, because for me today it is that, in addition to the policy of cuts that have been made here and which has preserved and frozen the economy, we also have to do a policy that will create jobs, promote investment, whether from the outside or from the inside, and which appreciates the fact that people who know something have to work. I would have a certain reservation when it was said that the active employment policy was weak, little. Look in Germany. There the active employment policy has done very much under a simple slogan. That people who know something can't sit at home in a fallow. And if that's the left-wing password, that's what I'm applying for. If the principle that a person can do something is healthy, then we have to do something to make him work, so that's something that I think helps keep the values, the value of work, the meaning of human life. You know, it's against the entropy. So let's drop the left right, but what's holding this life together. And I'm saying that life doesn't stick together if there's a policy here where equality and inequality grew. You know, it seems to me that growing inequality, unless someone's facing it, just leads to society falling apart. This is one of the most unfortunate trends today not only in the Czech Republic but also around us. Unfortunately, the crisis has led to this. The crisis in Europe is leading to an increase in inequality. And even the drugs that were elected in the European Union have often helped to make a living for banks, but medium-sized, small businesses, ordinary people had nothing of it and the inequality grew. That's why the situation is tense. Socially, too. Therefore, fear of extreme parties, of populist parties, is precisely for the rise of inequality before the upcoming European elections. So isn't it so that your left-wing recipe so-called sometimes can work in a situation of deepening inequality? Isn't that something that's gonna keep the company together? Isn't that what's going in that program, defending the growing inequality, it's just against the destruction of values, the breakdown of families, and everything that I think has affected society today? The company just isn't okay. People aren't happy. It wouldn't be difficult to find a more satisfied company in Europe than Czech. And I don't think it's due to our specific mentality. [[14.30 hours]] So I think that when we talk about the state of the company we're taking over, there really is a whole series of pretty much destructive processes that unfortunately have been going on here in the past years, and losing faith, poor expectations. And if anyone wants to find a way, let's talk about the recipes. There's one thing I want to say here, because I actually agree with what the president said when he was talking about investment. And I would like to draw attention to one thing. But I don't think it would be possible to find the way out of this today simply as it was in those years 1998 to 2002 when Miloš Zeman was Prime Minister. I don't think repeating the recipes at the time is enough. Let me give you a specific example. When you look at the situation of the Czech economy, the industry of different industries, you find that it has one big problem - the indicators. They show that the production does not promote a higher level of added value, in different sectors, it links them all together, it stagnates. Added value simply stagnates. And for me, this is an important factor. The question is - and this shows that the path is not and will not be easy, because I think that investment alone is not enough. It's where the investments are going. And if it really is going to be a living in the future, I think it's going to be a decision whether it's going to be an investment in production that brings higher added value. In that, I think the situation is different than it was back in the late '90s. At the time, it was basically enough to support a medium-value-added industry, such as the consumer industry, cars and the like, and it basically pulled us into high economic growth. Today I think it cannot simply be repeated precisely because those who will produce things that have a high level of added value will get out of the crisis. And that, I think, is efficiency and productivity, which can be the solution for this country. That's why I think there's not enough investment. We need to talk about this, too. Let's talk about innovation, the way we create production, which will be at a qualitatively higher level than what we tried to do ten fifteen years ago. So I don't know if this is left-wing, but I'm telling you, these are the things that this country is facing if it's going to get out of a state that I don't think today is a big deal. I'm not saying this because I want to be a schnitzel or that I want to show the worst of the situation, but that it needs to be discussed relatively precisely, so that it corresponds to what the public feels publicly, what the professional public feels, as a starting point from which the country needs to be brought up. I simply have no doubt that this is a serious task and that different paths lead to the future. We can just find the recipe, and we don't have to. That's what I think is really important debate. And that, of course, is what the government has in its programming statement today. Let me finish by saying something about foreign policy. I was talking about entropy, and I have to tell you that unfortunately the entropy and the tendency to entropy is about foreign policy as little as possible. I'll prove it to you quite quickly. Look, my friends, what the situation around us is like around Europe. Look at Ukraine, look at Bosnia and Herzegovina, the social unrest there, look into Egypt, look into Libya, look into... I can name a whole series of countries in North Africa. It's almost obvious, my friends. There's something pretty fundamental going on here. It is as if either a new phase of self-determination of states and nations is being created, and it is not at all simple and certain how that path will lead. So if I have spoken that we are fighting entropy in the Czech Republic, unfortunately we are fighting a great deal of entropy in that world around us. Even the European Union itself is exposed to an easiest situation in which it seeks a way into the future. Today, the European Union itself is in a situation where it seeks the form of the euro area, the form of integration, answers quite basic questions that will determine its future. About how coherent it will be in the future. And the cohesion of the south and the north, that's the key issue today. In what form will Europe survive. So if we have the entropy dangerous in the Czech Republic, let me point out that we have a similarly dangerous entropy around us, in the world around us. And at those borders, it even looks pretty scary. So I think it is also the role of the Czech Republic. At the same time, therefore, we should not only address some order, some justice and some credibility and some predictability to what we live here at home in the Czech Republic, but we should help, as the Czech Republic in foreign policy, to consolidate Europe, to find a way to economic stability, to consolidate the European Union, and even to help what is happening eastwards, to the south of us, where those countries are going through processes that often also seem quite threatening and whose result is not clear. And I'm not even gonna get into it. I have the impression that what I said at the beginning, that human life, that living power, is something that should go against the increasing degree of disarray, as Kauffman wrote it, seems to me that the role of the Czech government in times that are quite entropic is to try to create something that creates a sense of predictableness, some stability and predictability, or predictableness in people. So I would like the Czech government, the one who is entering, to meet this challenge here. To counter the forces of destruction and against these destructive processes, on the contrary, to build something that will be understandable and that will bring back a certain order to life, for which the present conservatives might hear. That's why I think some of the passages of the program in this sense seem very specific to me. You understand that when we talk about not outsourcing government services, when we talk about it in government priorities, we're going to try to do what the Prime Minister has repeated many times, about the reconstruction and inventory of the state, when we talk about auditing state property, the ban on the state trading with companies with unclear owners. You see, to remove all these things that actually made the state's economy inconspicuous, untrustworthy, which led people to have to ask themselves the question: We have to pay taxes to this state? Eliminating this is indeed a prerequisite for people to feel that they live in a society that can predict the future, predicting their own personal life. So I guess I'm not surprised to say that for me, the program is the measure, the level of precision that I... which may have been for us to offer it to the House as a way out of entropy, chaos and destruction. And I insist that these processes have affected the Czech Republic. And the task of this government is to change this situation. Thank you for listening and for patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u31	I thank the Minister and please give my thanks to Mr Petr Fiala in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u32	Minister Zaorálek - his colleagues are still applauding him, that is correct. He is, of course, a proficient rhetor, so he talked about many things. I would only react briefly to some of them. I would like to remind you that it was not just now that politicians left their posts undignifiedly and when corruption of politicians began to be investigated. I remember it was about ten years ago when the Minister of Finance for Social Democracy was convicted. Mr. Svoboda has been convicted of tunneling. Next thing. So my criticism was very specific. And because she was specific, you could have responded to her. Unfortunately, we cannot respond to a number of flat-rate claims in the government's programming declaration. And when you said that minimum wage doesn't increase unemployment according to a book, and as we know it's different, I'll answer it. Well, we know because we don't just read theoretical books, even if it's part of my academic work, but we talk to people, too. And we're talking to those people who create jobs, or we've set up institutions that belong to big employers ourselves. That is why we can very competently answer what causes the increase in minimum wage and how it is linked to employment. And the final comment on the generality of the programming statement. I am not angry with you, Minister, that you have read your part, or some parts of economics, but look, for example, at those passages that deal with the key question for our society, and that is research or education. And that's where you'll see the generalities I'm talking about. There are some phrases, some goals, there are no instruments at all, there are no specific things at all, there is no way we're gonna get there. This is a generality that I think is unacceptable to the government's programming declarations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u33	Thank you. Another with the actual registration, Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u34	Thank you for the floor. Only briefly and completely at peace with you through the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I thought it was a little different with the crisis, it was a little shifted, but it doesn't matter. But I wanted to agree on one thing, because I have long wondered about it myself and not quite successfully: It is true, it may be a little easier than it seems to have been able to build a state that tends to be weak where it is supposed to be strong, and vice versa. That is true, and it is very difficult to balance this fundamental issue. I think if this government succeeds, i.e. take measures that will not become stronger where it is not supposed to be, and, on the contrary, strengthen it where it is weak, so I think that this will be a completely supportive issue. That is what I think is the main question, which really is not quite simple, and it is difficult to find simple solutions, but I just warn that we do not remain with general, as if simple solutions. That's a tough question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual Mrs Němcová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u36	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the two points mentioned by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. To talk about facts, then. The first concerns the issue of unemployment. If I agree with him and you agree with me that this is a phenomenon that does not benefit any society and destroys it and is very dangerous from a short and long-term perspective. But if it mentions what unemployment looked like at the time of the right-wing government and what it wants it to look like now, after this government took over, it has to say the numbers as they were. So I must say that, in the period of socialist governments until 2006, at a time of economic growth not only in the Czech Republic but in the growth of Europe, half a million people were unemployed in the European '27' ranking, that was 15-17 for the Czech Republic. At a time of economic crisis, when unemployment was growing to catastrophic proportions in all European countries, the Czech Republic maintained its 5th to 7th place at this moment. I'm not saying that I'm cheering. Everybody who's out of a job feels like they're losing a big chance in life, but the numbers are clear. The second thing I want to say to the Minister through the Vice-President is the question of our surroundings, the way I look at the East or the West. Why did you reject the debate about Ukraine today when today's reports show that there are others dead, that barricades are on fire and that the country is on fire? And you are talking about our proposals and wondering what the position of the Czech Republic is, how the Czech Parliament stands with it, what a message it has for its surroundings, you rejected this debate despite the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs personally promised Mrs Fischerová that this matter would be negotiated last Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u37	Thank you, Madame. I'm asking the Minister if he's with the facts? I'm sorry, but you're second in line, Mr. Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u38	Thank you, I'll be very brief. Here was suggested by our fellow opponent that we read theoretical books. I want to assure you that the ANO MEP has 47 Members who have worked for a living, have experience in business, and have basically not managed institutions that have been paid out of taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u39	Thank you and please the Minister for De facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u40	So I don't look like some kind of hypocrite, I just want to respond to Mrs Němcová, that the item is still on the agenda of the meeting as interrupted. We didn't take him out, he's still there. That's one thing. The second thing that allows me time. I don't think there's any point in just saying, "You guys have had so much shut up and we've had so much unemployed and we've had so much, it's too simple." You all know that, at a time when economic growth starts, economic books say that it takes a year, two years to reflect on the increase in unemployment. First, higher productivity causes people not to need much. So these things are complicated. If I was blaming something, I was blaming that in times when it was necessary to work and help people actively to do something against rising unemployment, Drábkův's reform of the employment office, which I am absolutely convinced has actually made it impossible to help, which was very important in neighbouring Germany, because Germany has, of course, managed to invest a small amount of money in this active policy and has significantly reduced unemployment. That means when the government had this as their first assignment, it failed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u41	Thank you. With another factual fact, I have Mr Opálka's enrollment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to Němcová with you what I have said many times in this Chamber of Deputies. It's hard to hear. Compare unemployment before 2004, before 2013 and the present is a certain nonsense because there has been a change in the calculation of both the absolute number and the percentage. Of course, the percentage is calculated from the absolute number, so if we wanted to compare what cannot be compared, we can't even argue and compare these numbers. The methodology from 2004 to 2013 has made us more than 2 per cent in unemployment, or 2 per cent we would have to recalculate and deduct from the half of the million mentioned by the former Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I have highlighted this problem with every change in methodology, but unfortunately, sometimes numbers are used to support what we want to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u43	Thank you and another de facto Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u44	Sometimes it's like a deaf dialogue. Mr Opálka clearly knows that we do not question the fact that the methodology has been changed. After all, the former President compared the location of the Czech Republic in one or the other methodology between the countries of the European Union. The methodology was different in 2004 and 2013. We don't want that at all. But then we were ten places worse than today. So we agree with you that there is another methodology, we do not compare pears and apples, we only compare the relative position of the Czech Republic within the European 27th. And that's just what it is. There may be another methodology, but when we compare it with our partners and neighbors, it doesn't matter what the methodology is. We use comparison. So let's not say, and let's not blame ourselves for it being wrong. We do not want to argue with you that there is another methodology, we agree with it, we do not want to argue and compare at all not a percentage of unemployment, because it matters extremely much what the methodology is, we are talking about an international context within the European Union. Whether there was economic growth in the Czech Republic at that time and whether there was economic growth throughout Europe and around us or not. That was the only thing that was said in Mrs Němcová's speech, and I think we can agree on that. We acknowledge that methodologies have simply changed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u45	Thank you and with another de facto, please, Mr Opálka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u46	Thank you for your helpfulness, but in that case, let us stick to the Eurostat methodology, i.e. The International Labour Organisation, which is significantly lower and at that time did not make half a million according to this comparative methodology, as has been said here. So maybe we can finally make a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u47	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with the priority right of Minister Dienstbier. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u48	Madam Vice-President, Madam Members, I see that priority rights have a very relative value after the previous collision of factual remarks. I originally reported with a factual remark, because already in today's opening talk, but in some others, and even in newspaper articles, the coalition contract is often compared with the government's statement and is looking for contradictions. It doesn't matter if the contradictions are fifteen, or if there's only one person to find. [[14.50 hours]] I would like to emphasise this, and I would stress this by quoting from the government statement in paragraph 3: "The government policy will be based consistently and fully on the coalition treaty." In other words, there is no and there can be no contradiction between the coalition treaty and the government's statement, because, as the government has pointed out several times, the programme part of the coalition agreement is basically part of the government's statement. If certain points are highlighted or further developed in a government statement, they do not mean that they deny the validity of any single word in the coalition agreement. President Filip expressed his regret that the general referendum is not explicitly mentioned as one of the priorities in the government statement. I would like to say that, even in this case, this is a misreading, because I would again refer to the explicit citation of the government's statement, in paragraph 2 of the Government's priority, where it is said that the government will present a constitutional law on a general referendum, including a referendum on the basis of a popular initiative, which will enable citizens to decide directly on the fundamental issues of the functioning of the state. I would like to stress that the general referendum is really a priority for this government, and if I can speak for social democracy, social democracy has repeatedly presented the Constitutional Act on a general referendum for decades in each parliamentary term, namely on a real referendum. I would like to mention here the previous government, which basically offered in its government statement, in the particular proposal that has arrived in the House, paskvil, when, on the basis of the citizens' petition, Parliament would then only graciously consider whether it would happen to declare a referendum. Our intention is to enable citizens to force a referendum on the basis of a petition, if, of course, they raise a voteable question. And such a proposal will undoubtedly soon be submitted by the government to the Chamber of Deputies. My last reaction will be to Mr Kalousek's speech. Maybe I'd trust him to be interested in the corruption government and to have the rule of law here. I would like to stress that this government will behave consistently according to the principles of the rule of law. This government has not yet broken any law. If we are talking about the Illustration Act, I would like to emphasise that there is a double interpretation of lawyers who are expressing themselves on this matter, and it is not a completely uniform position on whether or not a member of the Government has to have an illustration certificate, regardless of whether or not it was a custom - and it was not a constitutional custom, or because it is not an interpretation of the Constitution - to present a demonstration certificate together with a proposal for appointment of members of the Government. Moreover, I would like to point out that this government was not named itself, it was named by the President, and if lawbreakers are ever seen here in that it was urgently discussed in the first reading of the draft amendment to the Service Act, the only thing this government, virtually. The government coalition has done what it has agreed that the amendment to the Service Act has been discussed at an emergency meeting and not at a subsequent proper meeting, in other words, a few weeks has accelerated this, although I agree that the President's condition in this was not entirely standard. I think it is quite indisputable that the service law should be a priority not only for this government, but for the entire political spectrum, because it is clear that it was precisely a lack of service law, which the previous right-wing governments also prevented and did not want it to take on any reasonable form of effectiveness at any time. When I say reasonable, I mean in a form that would actually protect the independence of the performance of the public service from political incorrect, and I will even say corruption sometimes. In this sense, I think it is only right if we move quickly and, of course, if the service law finally takes a good form, for which we also have enough time, and it will also have the full support of legislative experts from the government, both the Office of the Government and the various ministries that have anything to say on this subject. And certainly Mr Kalousek's words on corruption could be more credible if he himself was not the finance minister of two governments, first Topolánkův and then Nečasův, who both drowned and ended early in corruption scandals or in an attempt to hide these scandals from the public in the form of pressure on the media, so as not to make too much reference to them. And as for the rule of law and the observance of laws, once again, the criticism would sound more credible if Mr Kalousek, then as a member of the government, had the same or perhaps even greater impact, because it was a real violation of the law, opposed, for example. Minister Drábek, Minister for the Party of Mr Kalousek, wrote a public commercial competition for the operation of the social system card, according to the law which has not yet been properly discussed, has not been approved and therefore has not been paid. Because here I see a clear violation of the laws in force, a procedure by the Ministry in an area for which there was no legal support, and I am sorry that there is a criticism of the government in advance of violations of laws, corruption, in a situation where the government has been here for a few days. True, she had no chance to prove anything good, but she also had no corruption scandals or violations. So I would like opposition criticism, which is completely legitimate, to be in the right mind, and even today's opposition measures the new government at least as much as it measures or measures itself at a time when it was part of those previous governments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u49	Thank you, Minister, and please, de facto, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Please don't twist me, Minister. I have not criticized the government for any corruption, I have merely stated, and I am thinking quite clear arguments that the government is entering a very clear corruption environment where the conflict of interests cannot be verified will not be controlled. What cannot be verified, what cannot be checked, is simply a permanent corruption environment of a systemic nature, which cannot be blamed for the Minister of Finance, but to the Prime Minister, who was the only one to set up his ministers so as not to allow such a conflict of interest. If Minister Babiš were, for example, the first Vice-President of the Government and the Foreign Minister, there is no risk here. Since he's the owner of Agrofert and the Finance Minister, there's going to be a permanent corruption risk. Permanent and uncontrollable. And there's just no doubt about it. This can be demonstrated on individual examples.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, please, to the microphone with the priority right of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u52	Madam President, fellow Members, I never really thought that for every entrepreneur in this country, the symbol of corruption, Mr Kalousek, would talk about corruption here. That's really unbelievable. I'd like to respond to conflicts of interest. In particular, a conflict of interest in bank loans. My company grew up on bank loans and at a time when profesor Klaus and Junk here controlled all Czech state banks and we couldn't get a loan, we started City Bank, an American bank, in 1994, which has strict anti-corruption rules. So we grew up in banks, and it's true, today we have 25 billion. CZK loans at the turnover of 220 billion. By the end of the year, we had 26 billion in supplies, 6 billion in bills. So if Agrofert went bankrupt, he's got six billion in his account. for the whole estate. This means, of course, it is nonsense, because banks like to loan us, we have big limits, 15 billion, and we even finance ourselves cheaper than the Czech state. [[15.00 hours]] It is financed for 3 per cent per annum, we finance for less than 2 per cent, it depends on the company's bonita. In addition, we agreed with the Prime Minister that the deputy for this area will be a representative of the ČSSD, whom I will meet on Friday and is currently an employee of the Société Générale and works abroad. So it's nonsense. Next thing you know, as a company, we have an obligation to publish results in the register. Few people do this, because of course the fine is ridiculous, but we do it because we do consolidation and we are audited by the renowned PwC company, so all our loans can also be read in our consolidated report, 200 companies. Regarding the Bank Board, of course, I've never been to the Bank Board before, I'm sure I'll keep in touch, I'll ask the Governor, and, of course, if the Bank Board should discuss the Czech koruna course, I can say here that I won't attend the meeting, and I can't get to that information at all. At the same time, we are not a financial group. We're an industrial group. So all of this can be checked, and I will, of course, report it in advance under the conflict of interest law. I was very amused by food self-sufficiency. Indeed, if Mr Kalousek were to think, he would know that it is the construction of food self-sufficiency in our country that is against the interests of Agrofert. Because actually the state will support our competition. So it's normally stupid. And the fact that we're foodless, we thank Professor Klaus, who said to us here, "We're going to bring everything." That is why we have the largest concentration of retail chains in Europe. So food self-sufficiency - of course it's in the programming statement. Personally, I think we can do our best, we missed the train and it's in a resort that I personally have no influence on, and it's against the interests of Agrofert, because Agrofert is the largest food manufacturer in the Czech Republic, we do 50 billion. sales and it's the worst business ever. Thanks, of course, to the concentration of the retail market. And we should also think about why none of the foreign investors here invested in food. Why isn't there an investor in meat, chicken or bakery like Poland? Only the Francouz are here. They have two dairy plants and, unlike us, they can export cheese that they make from Czech milk to all of Europe. Because we are just playing the common European market - there is none. It's a one-way import, and that's why we ended up with 130 billion coming in. food. So to the food, of course, it's nonsense. I would love to, indeed, be amused by Mr Kalousek, because he was always a symbol of corruption for us. He burned us down in the '90s when he learned it at the D.O.D. And all the affairs he's had are really incredible. And it was grabbing. The finale was to be an ecological contract with Martin Roman, a Czech gorilla. That's where he was going to tunnel for tens of billions. Well, of course, sophisticated was also arbitrage. Criminally prosecuted by Radek Šnábl, the best arbitrage burner to which a criminal complaint is filed because he passed orders to his wife to the Ministry of Finance. He's working for the Traffic Company now, good news, too. So it started from smaller amounts and gradually it went, it went, until, of course, the greatest synergies started with Topolánek. There have been huge synergies through kapsche, pandury, time, Gripens etc. Gambling hasn't paid taxes here for 20 years thanks to Mr. Kalousek. And thanks to Mr. Kalousek, the Internet lottery has been approved. Without anyone's consent. Some Mr. Čunek said that KDU-ČSL should have gotten 10 miles for it. Crowns. At least I read it in the paper. So it's really incredible for me that Mr. Kalousek here is telling me about corruption. But the way it always worked was that, for example, the increase in the share capital of Explosia was always one of the last cases that he succeeded. This was done on 3 July 2013. Six days before the end of the government. 250 million blew up the company so some of his friends could do some arms business. And before that, he blew $100 million out of Prisk. (?) So it would be good if we were to think about what's going on with the corruption. I'm not talking about the Czech Export Bank, which is a hyperprose. There was a competition right now. Topolánek delivered his friends there, so today we have 16 billion. non-conquerable loans. And Deputy Director Gregor even says he'd like a budget of 3.5 billion. And those arbitrations, they were done by actually making arbitration, for example, another case that Mr Kalousek was doing was TOZy. Some 70-year-old pensioner from the suburb of Suffolk bought it from TOZy behind the Czech state. And he threatened a huge arbitrage. Well, in the end, we sent him 1.4 or 1.33 billion, and wonder what happened to the world, Mr. Kalousek personally handing out the material to the government. Just like he was handing out the Explosia. It's written here. The minister handed out the material at the government meeting, 3. 7. 2013. [[It shows in the report.]] So when it came to the interests, it was done this way that the systems were being violated. So the fact that some aesthetic put me on a list 32 years ago, and the aesthetics terrorized me and investigated me, and I was on some stupid list that, of course, was never complete any more, because after the revolution, General Lorenc made sure that real aesthetics weren't there, so it's worse than what happened in our country that politicians became organized crime! And it's worse that billions have been stolen here and that today in Brussels, the Healthcare Corporation Report is writing about Šnajdr and Mr Bendl. So we're officially here. So really talking about corruption is really... And it was during the reign of Topolánek and Kalousek that we brought it to perfection. Because there was a mob of justice here. Mrs Vesecká, Mr Pavel Němec, Kučera etc. And we all remember that. So much for the first part. I would like to comment on our government. First of all, I would like to inform President Fiala, through Madam President, that this is not a left-wing government. The YES movement is center-right. And if you didn't find out, most ODS voters came to us. And most of the renowned entrepreneurs in this country who are honest in doing business and paying taxes are with us! We have 450 sponsors with clear names, and the entrepreneurs of the year led by Mr. Piškanin stood up for us. They supported us. Because we have fought for their interests and we have already fulfilled the first point that taxes have not increased. And thanks to us, there was no left-wing government with the support of the KSČM, as agreed. So I'd like us to call each other what it is. We're new, of course, so we're supposed to have miracles now. Because this country is decaying, and 24 years goes somewhere, like the TOP 09 said. We know where we're going, and all the citizens know where we're going, and I'm not gonna say it here. So, for us, of course, I have the task now to secure the budget. [[15.10 hours]] I was at the board meeting yesterday at the General Financial Directorate, and I actually got all the proposals for measures and they're... How much? There's about 50 of them. And one feels that the General Financial Directorate was created yesterday. Forty-eight of them. 48! And I ask, what has the Financial Directorate been doing here so far? For example, the establishment of a National Bank Account Register. It was in the Nečasův government. And why didn't they approve? Why does a cop have to write 50 banks when he's looking for a criminal? Why don't we have a central account at the CNB to look at it immediately? Because, of course, for carousel shops, for VAT, and I repeat again, there is a potential of 2.7 percent of GDP, and that is 100 billion. That's potential. We never said we'd raise 100 billion. We said there was potential. Even leaving analyst FAÚ, Kalouskův's man Mr. Cícer, himself in an interview in the magazine A week this week, he's talking about 30 billion. And experts say yes. So that's the quick money we'd like to jump to and prevent. The fact that there is no cooperation between the financial office and customs officials today, that, for example, they have it all connected in Slovakia, that they have the Kobra and we don't have it, that the ODS canceled our FIPO - and why did it cancel our FIPO? Well, because Zimmel and company were looking for it nicely, and then they came to politicians! Then we won't control the politicians! So we canceled. So, the police department is still working today, on the OKFK. There's 40 people in the tax department. So I have a whole cookbook here from the General Financial Directorate, and I could read it here for about an hour, but I won't bother you. So if anyone asks how we want to do this, we want to prevent VAT fraud first, we want to touch the liquidity of the state. And I forgot. Do you know how much the guy who's supposed to pay the tax is taking? Well, he's taking CZK 25,000 to the tax office. Twenty-five thousand crowns! And if he's good, the private will take him. He'll give him 50, 60 immediately. So we want these people to collect taxes well and honestly, etc. So, of course, we're starting almost over here. Why we do not have a connected financial and customs office, as they have it in Slovakia, for example, to make it effective. That's the state and the official who's taking 25 grand, so we also have the great capital participation of the state that some CEOs are taking 550 grand and they still have one hundred percent bonus, so they have a million hundred. But I don't know who was driving them. There are TOP 09 and ODS nominees on the Supervisory Boards today. As it was guided, we can see at the Czech Export Bank, where a normal businessman probably does not get credit. There's supposedly just some chosen group of several companies. So these are all the things that await us. And the impact of the Czech Export Bank is supposed to be 3.5 billion, I was informed by Deputy Director Gregor. About how we're going to do this, I might as well read here basically the implementation of the tax part of our coalition contract. I can read you some parts, if anyone cares. We've got it all set up. First of all, before 2015, we want to eliminate the tax uncertainties arising from the new civil law. Secondly, personnel and technical strengthening of the tax administration. Thirdly, the extension of the rules on transfer of tax liability in respect of value added tax. Fourth, simplification of the system, unification of the base, binding assessment of the reported position. Legislative measures to improve tax collection. Reporting payments to tax havens. I don't know why we don't have it anymore. Digitisation of the tax administration in general. For 2015, we have an exemption from social security payments. That's what we promised that graduates and people over 50, the employer wouldn't have to pay social money for them. For example, at the Treasury Department, everything's outsourced. There is a fee for a criminal report of 200,000 or for a single shareholder's decision to pay almost a million! I would have written it myself in half an hour, and I only have two trials from the law on high economics. So I'd rather take law school graduates than pay 57 miles. for outside lawyers. Of course we're gonna take lawyers to specialized things, but basically, why would I have an outsider? Audit - these are the people who control the systems. They don't understand the economy. The public administration, it's my main shock, it works that everything that's budgeted has to be spent. They don't even understand what it's like to save - to spend. I even have a girl at the secretariat for meetings, one brings me letters, the other book, the third makes some material. Unbelievable. I've never even used a secretary because I make my own essay meetings. [[Glee in the hall. Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] Everyone knows that. I've got about seven of them now. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] In 2015, exemption from social security payments. Reduction of the limit for cash payments. We have 15,000 euros. If we had five, maybe it'd be better. Maybe we can repress the black economy a little bit. Cancellation of a super-gross wage. Increase the tax on the child. Restoration of the tax credit for pensioners. That's what we promised. Higher gambling tax. Proof of the origin of property for tax purposes. The financial authority's competence, the tax office can't do anything, because if someone has property and they control it, they laugh at him. He says, "I have a loan." Today, the tax office has to prove -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u53	Minister, I'm sorry. I ask my colleagues to remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u54	On line sales report. That's what we said we were going to do in Croatia, ask them how it works, and we would eventually buy it. Similarly, the system is in Hungary. Reduced VAT on drugs, books, diapers for children, irreplaceable baby food. Of course, there we will find that our coalition partner insisted, but we think that this is not feasible in Brussels. Repeal of the Single Collection Point Act and so on. A 2016 implementation of principles that will simplify tax management, analysis of employees' contributions and so on. So here's on a few, I don't know what it is, about 40 sides of the plan. So we know what we're doing. If anyone thinks that everything will change now and a miracle will happen, the Czech Republic, which has been still in debt, and the balance last year, it is not true because last year it was 12 billion. didn't build highways, money was coming back, so the whole savings was actually being strangled, that there was no investment. Because, of course, today the transport resort is in ruins. We remember Řebíček. He bought a place in the government with money. We didn't believe it before the election, and then it was true. He parked his company somewhere non-transparentally, so I should probably do it so I don't have a conflict of interest, and he pretends he doesn't belong to it. Then he bumped up about 12 billion. Orders, and then he sold it. So did others. I'm trying to be transparent, so, of course, I'm being attacked for it. So if anyone thinks a miracle is gonna happen, and I'm not gonna get a Nobelův Prize, I'm not gonna aspire to that. The point is that the citizens of this country need to feel that what was here has ended - waste, corruption, scandals, not transparency. And we're gonna want transparency. Minister Němeček will want money and I will tell him fine, so let him show the VZP how the 70 billion are flowing. To 140 hospitals and to show the exact amount and how the hospitals manage and who runs it. And we'd also like to know how other people manage there, because there's a lot of space in the health sector and everywhere. [[15.20 hours]] So if anyone says we're the left-wing government, we're not. We were more of an opposition agreement, like you guys had here. ODS and CSSD. [[Laughter and applause for members of the YES.]] But we're not here to do business together. We're here to start in a different way. So that people can finally know where the money goes to that state. I'd like to return a few more words to Mr. President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u55	I apologize once again, and I ask that my colleagues, if they have anything important that can't wait, say it to each other in front of the Chamber, so we don't get crazy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u56	So I'd like to go back to Mr. President. I wouldn't agree with Singapore because they have a great system there - ministers are picking out ads. An ad will be placed in the papers, and whoever wants to be a minister will turn himself in. Interesting, too. And about the taxation. Yes, great, Sweden. But I'm sure they didn't have such corruption in Denmark as they did here. And we basically said, "Why should someone pay higher taxes here if there is no end to waste and corruption?" Why? Yes, the rich are supposed to be solidarity. And I'm ready to be sympathetic, too. And all the rich in this country should be happy to have done business here, and they should return it to society. All those billionaires. They should be paying taxes here. There was this survey in the Week magazine - the hundred largest - I don't know how they do the rankings. And they asked how much taxes they paid. And only Mr. Schwarzenberg and I answered. So they should be involved, too. Why not? But first let the state stop wasting and stealing and let us see where the money goes! If we don't have the transport infrastructure. Everyone here is talking about employment. Amazing. Real employment, big topic. And when is the employment going to show up if we start the processes? Maybe in a year, maybe two. Because the basic assumptions for business are what? Transport infrastructure... We don't have a highway network! Horrible. Fast trains? We don't. A hundred billion went into the corridor! And our trains run 40 to 70, on average! So where's the money? Debt goes up, no investment. And we said that the 2014 budget that we had to adopt in order not to be a provisional, so we're gonna start going after the money that's fastest. And this is the fight against carousel trades, the refinancing of oil products, the state's material reserves, the liquidity of state-owned companies, which nobody really cares about. Meanwhile, we will prepare a major improvement in the conditions for financial management so that it can levy taxes on a substantial basis from 2015 onwards under better conditions. And 2016 is planned that we could finally start building massive highways and make money for it. So all I can say is that solidarity does, but it would certainly be ideal for us to stop having an atmosphere in our country when they say, "When there's stealing and cheating upstairs, we're all going to cheat and steal." And that we will live to see the day when even the entrepreneurs will say, "I will pay the taxes, because it is in the benefit of everyone." And I don't know if we're gonna make it because, of course, the crisis and morals are what they are. About the investments. Yesterday, an employee of the Ministry of Industry told me that he was at a meeting with CzechInvest once and they were talking about the incentives. And normally at that meeting in front of all the principals, he said, well, let's ask Ivoš. So Ivoš Rittig - he actually controls everything here de facto, the whole ODS, the class of 170 miles. Class - money washing machine. [[THE LAUGHTER OF YES MEMBERS]] And we know all that. But there's no evidence. Because nothing will be investigated in the finals, because, of course, here we still have the GIBS, which has set up the ODS for us here. So even the cops who wanted to investigate some of the time got pooped 'cause why would they try like that? [[The laughter of some Members]] [[Punching into the table on the right, whistling.]] And, of course, we have a system here that the police work, how it works. I just wanted to say for our movement that we're not the politicians... But we're already... But we will try to do something else. And I'm sure we'll keep the promises we made. And I can vouch for that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u57	Thank you, Minister. And before we continue the proper debate, I have a shrink of factual remarks here. First comes Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u58	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u59	Sorry, I'm sorry. Again, I'm asking you to be quiet. Because it's really hard to scream, and we're here to hear the facts and all the contributions to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u60	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, there is no more election campaign. So I'm not gonna respond to tabloid gossip, gossip, and obvious lies. I just wanted to point out that your speech was quite significant by saying "we Agrofert" here in the first part, and in the second part you say "we government." If you yourself have a clear problem with this schizophrenia, then you cannot be surprised that the public and the thinking Members are also considering it. I like to believe that you have credit lines and that banks liked to loan you because your business was successful. All the more I'm going to believe that they're going to be lending you more and more favorable now, because as Finance Minister, you just have something to offer them. And no one is able to check whether it happened or not, because credit agreements are subject to banking secrecy. Just because you're here yelling that it's nonsense doesn't mean that the risk doesn't really exist here, because it can't be realized. It's just that no one is able to check. It won't be transparent. And it's primarily the Prime Minister's fault that he didn't put you in a position other than this, where you're in that obvious conflict of interest, even if you say it's nonsense a thousand times. We can trust you about as much as you've never signed State Security cooperation. Some people just believe, some people don't. But you can't really check it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u61	Thank you. Another is Mr Blažek's enrollment with fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u62	Thank you for the floor. President Zeman said the word "dream" here today. I'll do it again. Mr. Finance Minister made my dream come true. I wanted him to say some things at the anti-corruption conference the other day. He's just starting today, which is a good thing, and it's commendable. And I think that even the dictionary - the burners and some other terms that have appeared today - shows that it is finally in the Ministry, and maybe it is good and now, no offense, the goat gardener. So maybe the bad guys Mr. Babiš was dealing with in the 90s and later years are really scared today because they have someone with absolutely accurate knowledge of things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u63	Thank you. With another factual fact, Mr Stanjura is registered. He's downloading. So another enrollment with Mr. Benda in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u64	Madam Vice-President, I have also tried to listen carefully to the Minister of Finance. I have to say, it brings in a certain new ghost. Words like hyper shit or somebody gets pooped we weren't used to hearing around here. [[The noise in the hall.]] I don't know if we want to get used to it. That's the first point. Second point. It was said that Mr Kalousek was still firing someone in the early 1990s, and it was obvious that the current Minister of Finance was thinking of himself. I'm asking you how many times he's paid for this money, or how many times he's refused to pay it and where he filed a criminal complaint. [[15.30 hours]] And the third point, perhaps the most fundamental one, which concerns, in particular, the ANO colleagues, who I believe were running here as a right-wing party. The finance minister here said we've been going somewhere for 24 years. I think we've all seen where we're going or where the Minister of Finance means it. That's not even what the Communists said, that it was better here before 1989. Maybe the finance minister was better off here, maybe not. I even blame him because I feel that this regime has given him many options, but if he really sees this country as a fundamental loss 24 years ago, then I think it has nothing to do with the right hand at all, but nothing at all!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u65	Thank you, and with another de facto, please, Mrs Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u66	Thank you. Good afternoon. We're constantly hearing romantic ideas about the financial police, speculation, rumors about the reasons for its abolition. We have even heard on Czech TV on Sunday broadcasts that we already have the same name for her as in Slovakia - Cobra, naja naja for Latins. Really nice, such action! But that's about it. And I suppose that neither colleagues on the left nor colleagues on the right nor colleagues behind me suffer from amnesia, so that they don't remember why the financial police were canceled. It was abolished because it had abnormally weak results as opposed to the present time... when the proceeds of crime are tenfold compared to the results of purposefully mourned financial police! [[interrupted by the loud response of ČSSD and YES Members]] Even in the current state, ministers, the police will be able to secure - not the financial, other - some nice jewelry from Cartier, a few tons of gold. You don't like that, do you? On the contrary! What happened when the FIPOs worked here, remember: they confiscated planes, they put sharks in holding cells. Several dozens of FIPO cops have let Radovan Krejčíř escape from the villa - although I'm not saying it wasn't such a bad thing to do. So, FIPO, thanks! If this is how we want to go back to something that's gone completely bankrupt and hasn't worked, let's think about going back to FIPO. After all, we certainly have enough people like Radovan Krejčíř in the Czech Republic!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u67	Thank you, Madame. And the Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Babiš, please do so. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I really can't be a demagogue like Mr. Benda, who turned the whole thing around. We have $1,680 billion of debt today! I'm just saying, we could've been better off if we hadn't had Klaus from the coupon to the amnesty and the ODS that left everything behind. We could've had highway networks ready, maybe! We don't have one for Austria! And quick trains. So it's not about that. I wasn't talking about the previous regime. I was talking about if someone were to run this country properly, we could do much better. About FIPO. I'm not a fan of any FIPO. I think there is a large margin in cooperation within the Ministry of Finance, Customs, FAO and Financial Office, and I do not think that there is actually any new structure to be made. And I would like to repeat to Mr Kalousek, through the President, that I repeat again, the Deputy Minister of Finance of the Bank will be in charge of the ČSSD. So hopefully that's a guarantee that the Prime Minister will keep an eye on it so I don't do any business, which is absolutely absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u69	Thank you and another de facto Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the topic of the financial police has been raised here. I would have believed Mrs Černochová that it was some kind of analysis that evaluated how the formation works or doesn't work. But I would like to remind you that this decision took place just a few days after Ivan Langer took office without any analysis, and that was when the Minister made the decision without knowing whether his government would be trusted - and Mirek Topolánek's first government did not have any confidence! They didn't know who would rule, who would have confidence. All that was known is that we have to shut down the financial police!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u71	Good afternoon, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. With another factual remark, Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u72	You see this, Mr Tejc, through Vice-President Gazdík, and something similar is happening these days in the Prison Service, where the Minister of Government, who does not yet have confidence, has called on General Dohnal to give up his position as Director of the Prison Service, and even according to the information from the meeting she was at, forbids him - please listen nicely, listen to me now - forbids him to make a personnel decision to name or refer someone back. If this seems like a standard approach to any director of any security force, then there's something wrong with our democracy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u73	Thank you, Madame. With another point of fact, Mr Laudát, Minister Válková will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u74	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I've only noticed here - Mr Babiš, and you've all heard it, he said something about money flying somewhere, and he mentioned the KLASA project. This is where we interrupted the discussion of a quarter of a billion crowns on the PR PGRLF on Friday. So I hope when we get to that point, and I think my colleague Kováčik here was saying what excellent KLASA projects are there, so that you come out with the truth. I don't know how it works in KLASA. You all know it, that's where it fell. I don't know, so I'm gonna be interested in discussing that point as it goes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u75	I thank Mr Laudát. I beg you, Minister Válková, with a point of fact. Mr. Hašek is a gentleman. [[He preferred.]] Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to continue this femininely emotional debate that my colleague Černochová has started here, and some of the gentlemen have joined her. I think it's enough with the facts. I've been confronted with a non-standard situation and with peace, I hope to be distinctive, I've responded to it and I'll respond. Specifically, what you have also heard in that brief press release, to which the current Director-General basically reacted hysterically by calling a press conference, that I started the first act in the proceedings for his removal from office, I only wanted to demonstrate with such a yellow card: this is not how I imagine the performance of the tasks that every official in service has in a certain rank when his superior asks for the documentation necessary to carry out an economic due diligence and audit. I insist on that, I stand by and some claim that my claim is inconclusive, I reject completely and I trust my staff in the control department and also an external auditor who can confirm that. That's point one. Point two. I don't know if it's standard in our country to have someone who's subordinate and basically chief of the prison corps convene an extraordinary work meeting, the only point of which is to defend their position and explain their positions against my primary act, or to initiate proceedings for his appeal, at a working time. I read: "I call an extraordinary entire republical meeting of the wardens and prisons of the Academy of Prison Services, secondary vocational schools and union directors." [[Attention on time.]] "Participable. The representation uniform's instrument. This took place on 17 February at 12.30 on May, and the only program was to question my actions, which I have mentioned here several times. I know I'm over the clock, so thank you for your patience. Of course, I have much more to say and then I will enter into a proper discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u77	The Minister has already entered into a proper discussion. Thank you. In addition, Mr Hašek's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Of course, I didn't want to react in the debate at all. We're supposed to talk about trusting this government. However, when your colleague Černochová said here that what is now happening from the perspective of the Prison Service and its director corresponds to the "fip," let's get the facts straight. Mr. Langer canceled FIPO as such a few days after his appointment. [[In an elevated voice.]] It wasn't about the appeal of his director, Mr. Zimmel. That's moment number one. And moment number two? What the Secretary of State just said. After all, the Prison Service is a military organized corps of the Czech Republic, which is supposed to operate under the law. If her commander, who is at risk of appeal, calls all subordinate prison leaders for his defence during the working hours - can you imagine, would Ivan Langer do that if Mr. Zimmel had called all FIPO members and started writing petitions to keep FIPO alive? I don't think we'd be seeing these people again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u79	Thank you, Mr Hašek. With another factual remark, Mrs Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u80	Thank you for a nice story about the calm secretary and the hysterical general. I think we've heard a lot of these stories here, and we'll hear them again. I would respond to Mr Hašek through the Vice-President. I don't know, I wasn't there, and I don't know how Monday's meeting was convened by the Director-General. But the startling thing about this meeting is that contrary to the legislation that you, Doctor, know, so is the director of an institution called Prison Service, which is a security force, something that is called a government minister, please nicely. If I translate it into another case, it's probably the same as if the Home Secretary was ordering one of the regional directors, the police presidents, the directors of the various departments, not to make any personnel changes. Translated - analogy Prison Service versus Police of the Czech Republic. I would take advantage of the fact that the Minister here accused me of hysteria, and I would ask, please, nicely, if Mr. Human Rights Minister Dienstbier is present, because I was intrigued - to put the debate back into trust with the government and the programming statement, so I really like the sentence that I need to translate. "The government will consistently apply the principle of equality between women and men." I understand - but look out! "The government will focus on suppressing gender-based violence." Does this mean that we women can beat? Men don't us? Or that we can't argue with women like the secretary? Or are you men among yourselves? Please, Jirka Dienstbier, dear Minister, about translating this sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u81	Thank you, ma'am. With another factual remark, Minister Válková. Please, Madam Secretary. Please, your two minutes, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u82	Yes, I will try this time not to be reminded by Mrs Němcová. I thank her for the warning and it will be even shorter than she thought about the content, precisely because I have no confidence that the current management of the Prison Service has announced all the selection procedures that are taking place in a transparent manner. But since I have no reason to replace these decisions with other decisions, I have decided that the selection procedures will stop and all personnel changes, not only in prison, but also in the Justice Department, I want to be under complete control at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u83	I thank the Minister for her point of view. And if there is no further factual point, I have good news for you. Only four more with priority rights, and then only 30 more registered properly. [[Cheer up in the benches.]] The first priority is the President of the Civic Democratic Party, Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. I ask my colleagues, especially the Prime Minister, for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u84	A hundred more factual points before we're done. Unlike others, I'm going to say that I wanted to get off today, and I wanted to express my opinion. My colleagues from the government desks and the press have been asking me all week to see if we're gonna have any obstructions. And so they feared it until they organized it themselves. It's 3:45 p.m., the meeting lasts four hours 45 minutes, the opposition has spoken for about 30 minutes, something was taken by backup government voices of communists and Dawn, and the rest was spoken by the government. No offense. [[Prime Minister Sobotka responds in his place with loud laughter and applause.]] No offense, just next time they say we've been talking for a long time to remember how much they've done here, or in such media talk, to bring it all together. And when my honored colleague Komárek once again talks about not going back to the past, I'm not really gonna listen to him when his boss is the first to break it. About the programming document why we met. I know the Foreign Minister didn't like it and didn't like it, but it's really extremely general, without concrete solutions and concrete steps. And I understand that because then we can't control the government and we can't say, "This is what you promised in a year, two, three, and you didn't." And they say, "We just said that we want to make our lives better, and that's just what happens." I would like to say a few specific cases where I think the government is wrong or where it is making a mistake or what the government has completely forgotten. Is it true that innovation - in addition to the fact that the government is building up confidence in the negotiations - is that, in addition to the programme statement, we get a coalition contract in one document with the state sign in front - and what about it? Is that an amendment? A supplement? A program statement is an excerpt? It's hard to say. So I took what I needed out of it. If you don't like it, it's your fault, there should be one document. Then I'd hate to hear the other one had a different meaning. I want to point out what I call political hypocrisy and which we should avoid, whether we are in any government, whether we are in a coalition or in opposition, and call things the right name and not have to be ashamed of it. So the government says, and now it's accelerating how quickly we sign the fiscal compact or the fiscal pact you want. But anyway, he says we won't follow the terms, because we don't have to. So I want to say that we are already in the mainstream of Europe with this approach - to say something once and to do something else. I remember when you convinced us - in the end, my colleagues voted in favour of this in the then Chamber of Deputies - about the Lisbon Treaty, perhaps the greatest advantage that was presented that one state would not guarantee the debts of others. And that was in 2008. And let's look at 2012, 2013, 2014, how it turned out. So the same is true as in 2011, 2012 when we discussed this in the last parliamentary term. The Social Democrats want to be spanked in Europe by such collectors of the number of ratifying countries. You know, if there's a referendum and it doesn't work, the European Union will force the country to repeat it. So we're going to have a comma, we're going to sign a fiscal compact, but we just don't have to follow the things inside. The President supports both the signature and the fact that we don't have to follow it. If you were serious about the content, we could discuss the financial institution and discuss what kind of debt brake to set, what is the structural balance. I guarantee you that the definition of the structural deficit, which is already very rubbery and very vague, will change at the moment when the decisive players in the European Union do not like it. By saying that we are constructive opposition, it means, among other things, that I think that we can commend the government or individual ministers for something we think is good and agree with. The Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of Finance have stated that he supports the adoption of the euro, but that we must not pay the debts of Greece and Spain. And I want to say that this is the right opinion and that I support it and my political party. And here it comes. I have a question for the Prime Minister: who will negotiate? Prime Minister? Minister of Finance or Secretary of State? I'd like an answer. But I'm serious. I think this is the right approach to protect the money of Czech taxpayers who will not have to pay for the debts of other and often richer countries. [[15.50 hours]] The Prime Minister here today said in his short 50-minute interview - when he said "I won't read the ten pages, I will comment briefly" - and it took 50 minutes - that he would be determined not to increase the fees or the price or the surcharge for renewable resources. Again, I want to commend him, and I think that's a good thing. On the other hand, in March, it will go to the European Council, where energy policy objectives will be discussed. His colleagues from his socialist faction voted last week, or the week before last, to further increase the share of renewable resources, to further increase efficiency, and if he passes in a few years, not during this government, but perhaps over the next government, we will pay not CZK 500 a month as a household, but perhaps CZK 1,500, and under it will be the signature of Prime Minister Sobotka if it does not stand. He probably won't be Prime Minister at that time, and there will be other politicians here, and they will be ahead of who better and quicker to ensure that the payments are reduced, but we can stop it now, we don't have to wait eight years, and we don't have to leave it to our successors, as our colleagues who voted in favour of the law in 2005. I don't know how many of them are here today, I think the minimum, and then the rest of us are wondering who should have handled it better and sooner. Now I want to point out what just isn't true. I heard here today the Treasury Secretary's declaration that taxes will not increase. Again, I say it's good, and if it is, it will have our support. No irony, no conditions, no notes. However, let us come out of valid legislation. Many of us, I was among them, with a heavy hand raised their hand to introduce a solidarity bonus for a period of three years. This measure was taken as a counterweight to the fact that the valorisation formula for pensions had changed. It's due to end in December next year at the latest. This means that if someone wants to make it a permanent second zone, they say: I will increase personal income tax from 1 January 2016. If you leave it as it is, that means it will cease to apply on 31 December 2015 at the latest, then you're right. You didn't raise taxes, and we'll appreciate it, and we'll say yes, it's true, taxes haven't been raised. If you simultaneously change the valorisation formula before 31. 12. 2015, as stated at another place in the programming declaration, it would be fair to cancel the 7 per cent premium on the same date. Again, if you make one and the other don't, you raise taxes. We will closely follow the general sentence that the government will investigate, now do not take my word for it, or consider the possibility of introducing a sector tax with a minimum yield of CZK 4 billion. We're gonna be rooting for those who are against it, and we're gonna be, if we find a voting majority here, we're gonna be in the majority that's gonna stop it, and we're gonna praise it again. That's the difference between the past period. Whatever we did, the opposition of ČSSD and KSČM has always said: cancel, change, we are fundamentally against. When we made mild, really optimistic assumptions so that we wouldn't paint the devil on the wall, how much expenditure you planned in the programming statement, even though there aren't many of those specific promises, we reached a sum of 50 billion a year. At the same time, you say you want to hold 3% of the state budget deficit. But that's not enough. You guys really did a little homework. Perhaps the current prime minister, the last finance minister, remembers that at a time of 6% GDP growth, he had a 100-billion-dollar deficit, like about last year and last year. I don't want to argue about the 12 billion uninvested money from the FDI, but even if we added it, it was 92 billion, last year's deficit, even with the reservation that the money was only transferred from year to year, and I think it's logical, and there's nothing wrong with the money being transferred and left to that investment fund. With economic growth, I think we all want it to be 2%, as roughly the forecast for this year and in the coming years was more than 1%, it is just 3% very little. So when do we start saving up if we have a hundred billion-dollar deficit over and over again in times of growth? Then you say never, and then you wonder and you're upset that we say it's left-wing government. Well, it's left-wing government, and it's natural. We're not offended. We evaluate this according to specific steps and according to this approach at least to the state budget deficit. I think you've come up with some pitfalls yourself, and I'd like to commend the Prime Minister when he says we're going to introduce the register till 1 January 2017. Watch the date. That is, if we want to evaluate it after at least one year of operation, so that we can figure out whether it will bring tens of billions, as you believe, or, as we think, it will essentially bring nothing but harassment for entrepreneurs, so before the elections will take place. Before the elections will take place, which means each of you will be able to say, now we've set it off, and if you choose us, you'll see the tens of billions coming. Until then, it's just not gonna be. However, I would like to commend the Prime Minister for that date, and if he had postponed it after the elections, we would have praised him even more, because he would have agreed with us that we would not have implemented it at all. I finally signed off on the de facto comment on the Minister of Finance's speech, I say, using my turn after four hours or after five hours with priority rights. I read somewhere that Agrofert is thinking of entering the stock market. Issue and issue of new shares. Well, that kind of eulogy that this company is doing all right, maybe it belongs there, maybe in the financial paper, but really, it's already been said by one of my previous speakers who've been listening for 15 minutes, what's doing well, how much credit, how much stock, how much money he has in his account, and I say for myself, I really don't care. I really don't care, and I don't care. And then the Treasury Minister says, well, now I'm gonna say a few words about the government. Right after we got it. [[unintelligible]] Maybe some of you spend your time going to justice.cz and they read the reports, read the accounts of the auditors, and so on. I understand when someone wants to buy it. But the rest of us here in the House at the moment when it comes to trusting the government, we really don't want to compare and hear how many supplies we have, how many financial resources, how many loans and the like. I don't think it belongs here. Some of you loved it because you applauded, you're either employees or future shareholders, I don't know, but I don't think we really need to discuss it. Something about the Department of Transport. The Prime Minister here said and apologized that maybe some buildings there, I don't know that there are priorities. Well, I don't know. When you write R52, R6, R35, R43, R49, D3, D8, D11, road circuit around Prague and follow-up communication, you have already listed almost all the important moves, and I think when I have ten priorities, there is no priority. No offense. Except that Rusnokův's government approved a strategic document that was really going to be at expert and expert level with the participation of not only Czech experts but people from the European Commission. This material is called in SeStra's official lingo, officially called Transport Sector Strategy. It was a condition for us to draw money. And, look, there aren't four of these listed buildings. This means, if the government wants to support them, it must be said that it will be from national sources and it will not be from those sources that are in the second programming period. This may well happen, and I think that if it is associated with the drawing of European funds, it is not. And since colleagues in social democracy call themselves friends, I don't think that if friends were more focused on the South Moravian Region's territorial plan, we didn't have to read here that the government would invest in R52. Well, it just won't be. Not that she didn't want to, but friends in South Moravia didn't do their homework, they don't have the principles of territorial development in the region. I'm not happy for them. I'm really not happy for them. And I'm saying it's a mistake. But putting it in the government's programming statement doesn't change that, of course. I see that those who are responsible are already reporting and will certainly have enough room to explain to us. I just wanted to say that it's just a false promise that the government can't keep if the South Moravian Region doesn't do its homework. Once it's done, it'll work. At that point, the government can also make this important communication, and I don't want to question the importance of simply doing it. Until then, we can only do preparatory work. All the building authorities are unable to decide and move it forward in this difficult process of building preparation. [[16.00 hours]] Then there are things that are completely missing. We hear here before the election - after the election. We had an emergency meeting for the service bill. I would assume that those who are so mountainous for him - and I am one of them, because I really think we need it, not that Brussels officials want it, but that we need it ourselves - will act accordingly. Well, I don't know. I read in the paper that we have a new head of FAO. I don't know who decided it. I mean, I know who decided it, but I don't know on what criteria other than their own reasoning. And that's what I miss. I think we should get the FAO under parliamentary control. We deal with all other secret services, respectively the government in our programming statement. They even talk about two-stage control, not only parliamentary but also civil. I think it is so important that, on a proposal from the finance minister, the government appoints the head of the FAO, that the government as a whole should have that decisive word, and I don't care if it's the HR committee or not, I think it's an important thing, which is, of course, not even mentioned. Not in the coalition agreement, not in the programming statement. So we're saying that we're missing it, and we believe that we can agree on that because... And last time we were a coalition, you were a opposition, now it's the other way around. I think the secret services are supposed to be under parliamentary control, all of them. Even for some, it is by law that the chairman of the supervisory body must be a member of the opposition. So maybe you guys can wait for Godot for a little while, you don't have to make quick moves because we have a service bill. Apparently, the Minister of Justice says that she will decide if and when there will be any personnel changes. She said she wanted everything under control. But that's just not possible. Either we give someone authority, like that top clerk you want or those state clerks, but then you won't be able to control it anymore. It'll be under control by the people who own it. And in that service, it's today. Remember the dispute when the police president said, I don't know whether he was in office or not, he said: Minister Pecina ordered me and asked me to change personnel. I turned them down. He says it right. The Minister may suggest, but he can't control it. It's under control who we give the authority to. And then maybe for fun. I don't know how or who made the language proof of the coalition contract when you left it. [[unintelligible]] I was really fascinated by the constant occurrence of the word support, we support, we want to support etc. So I figured it out. So, nice colleagues, nice colleagues. I think we'll call you the government of promises and support. You have a total of 114 times in the content of the word support or support. If it's just formal that you say "we support you in this, you do it well," it won't cost us much. I suppose, behind almost every word, we can either imagine a grant title or tax relief or something - so it's going to cost us a lot. And I'm not counting seven times the word "support," we're going to support the political part about coalition cooperation. I really don't know why we have this on the programming statement, but I understand you're committed to supporting the government. We did it, too. I'm sure I won't criticize it. So I've counted down the seven, seven times the word support, we'll support you. There's 114 left over. And believe that we will carefully calculate how many of these 114 promises you have fulfilled and how you have supported them. Whether it's just verbally or by some particular act, or financially. These are the main reasons why we will vote against. I say, unlike the back-up votes, we're not leaving the House or staying. I don't think there's anything like that, even though some club might say that. We will vote either in favour or against the proposal. I suppose the President of the House, or whoever's in charge of the meeting, will give us this, that he can't be held back. And on the other hand, so did our President. I think we've been able to find points on which there's a consensus, so for those specific bills, we're really going to judge them very carefully. If we find out they're worth supporting, we'll definitely support them. I hope that you will also judge our amendments in the same way and not automatically throw them in the trash. It won't let me say the last two sentences about today's first vote. The press asked me about it, and I sent them to you. I really don't know what bothered you about going back to discussing Ukraine after this point. Look at these servers and consider it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u85	I thank the President of the Civic Democratic Party. In fact, Mr Hašek is reporting. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I do not want to delay the House of Honor, but it was said from Stanjura's colleague's mouth that perhaps there are some rests on the side of South Moravia that will prevent the government from fulfilling its programming declaration. My colleague, it's not like that. There is no need for the principles of territorial development of the region to do this. There are several legal opinions on how construction can be prepared. The new principles of territorial development have been prepared for a year. By the way, the last ones were prepared by the Deputy Chief of Staff for the ODS, and she did a lot of work on it. I really appreciate her work. They were supported by the entire council and for the first time in history the Supreme Administrative Court has done so by abolishing the entire principles of territorial development. Anyone who wants to read the statement of reasons. A lot of people were shaking their heads about it. South Moravia will do its job, new principles of territorial development will be at the time of this government's term of office. I have no doubt that the government will be able to fulfill what your Prime Minister Topolánek committed himself to through the President in 2008. This means that the motorway network of the Czech Republic and Austria will connect, that it will connect in Mikulov towards Drasenhofen, the problem is that your governments and you, as Minister of Transport, did nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u87	Thank you, Mr Hašek. With another factual remark, the President of the House. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u88	Thank you for the floor. I, of course, will, if I manage the meeting, make clear the voting procedure at a time that is appropriate. But only to respond to President Stanjura's initiative. Staying the vote is possible. Any speech outside of the motion, against the proposal, is regarded as a delay in voting, and the former Member, Mr Petr Wolf, could tell his story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u89	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another factual remark, President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u90	Well, I knew you'd hear from a shot goose, didn't I? So, dear Mr. Governor, through Mr. President, I was really trying to help. The construction authorities leading the construction proceedings to the R52 stopped them with justification or interrupted that the principles of territorial development were not valid. I'm not happy about this. I'm not happy about this, and I said I didn't wish it on anyone. And I think you've had your bad luck as a county. That's what I'm fair and square. On the other hand, if it isn't, and I'm afraid that the activists you're going to have a huge hand with in that programming statement, read what you promise them, that when they did it for the first time, they're going to try it a second time. And I don't know how successful they'll be. So you can say I didn't do anything. There's no point in me defending myself here. I can specifically prove to you where I asked you who I was dealing with, who interrupted the construction office. I was just saying it's just not possible if it doesn't work. You're not the only ones, there's a similar problem in the Prague circuit on some sections. There's a similar problem on the R35 segment. But it's not us who are so generously promising in that programming statement as if the open door to these activists, who, for good reason, are preventing transport from being pulled out of cities and having it out of town, we had a quick connection. So once again, when you propose to open yourself up like this, let's remember the negative cases. And the fact that a colleague from ODS did it, she did it. But the result is - it doesn't matter. The result is that your country simply doesn't have it, and therefore the government cannot invest there. Constructions can be prepared, but they are not able to obtain building permits. We both know that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u91	Well, thank you, honourable Member. We're getting another proper application. Now it's only 33. prosit, Mr. Chairman of the Czech Social Democratic Parliamentary Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u92	Yes, thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, we have started at 6th hour of our meeting today and have not yet gotten to the proper logged in. Therefore, on behalf of the ČSSD, YES 2011 and KDU-ČSL MEPs, I dare to make a procedural proposal for the Chamber of Deputies to negotiate today and vote on all proposals after 21st and for sure for 24th hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u93	Yes, thank you. That is the proposal I will put to the vote. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I've got an application for a check-out. I am opening the vote to negotiate today after the 19th, the 21st and the 24th. - I'm sorry, I declare this vote misguided. I'm re-signing everyone out. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[16.10 hours]] I am opening the vote on the motion for the House to act today after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 174. 150 Members and Members are registered, for 131. We're gonna have a nice evening together. Congratulations to the House. With another proper application with priority rights, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka is registered. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u94	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, perhaps I will not be too pleased with the President of the ODS, Mr Stanjura, because I intend to take an active part in this debate. After all, it is the Government's programming statement - and who else should speak except the Prime Minister, and who should speak other than the government ministers who appear before the Chamber of Deputies to defend the House's confidence in them in the end? I remember the situation in the Chamber of Deputies, the opposition stood out, the ministers kept quiet and said nothing, they didn't respond to anything at all, and I don't know if such a discussion makes any sense. It is clear that if the members of the government are actively speaking and speaking, it will extend the debate a bit, but this is an important vote. We are the Chamber of Deputies in a democratic regime and I think that such discussions are a common matter for the democratic functioning of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd save myself from the word obstruction, and I don't think we should put each other's performances under some obstruction tables and have that debate about what is and what isn't obstruction. In the last Chamber of Deputies, in recent years, we have experienced this, and I have done obstruction as an MP because I did not agree with the progress of the government coalition. I admit the right of the opposition when it decides and declares obstruction to work with this instrument in the framework of the law in force, the Rules of Procedure. Let us hope that relations between the government and the opposition will not be so bad that opposition must approach obstruction too often. But it is a legitimate tool for the work of the opposition here in the Chamber of Deputies. Maybe I can't please my ODS colleagues for a second reason. As I have tried, dear colleagues, I have really tried to focus my speech on the government's programming statement in the future. I did not go back to what was here, and I was really talking about the goals that the government has in individual key areas. I was talking about priorities, what we want to do. I haven't wasted my time going back to the past that's been here for the past 10, 15, 20 years. But given the appearance by opposition representatives, whether by President Fiala or President Kalousek, it is simply impossible to pretend that we are suffering from collective memory loss or that perhaps all of them have been lobotomyed and that no one remembers anything that has happened here in recent years. I reject the approach that has been shown here by some members of the right-wing opposition in the sense that we have actually done everything perfectly, actually everything works, the crisis is just a myth, something that is spread here, a stupid mood, actually everything is perfect, and now the government is going to do little perfect, which works, simply destroy its new policy. I think that the ODS was either extremely unlucky or its governments were severely incompetent, because every time the ODS ruled several years in a row, it turned out badly. I want to recall the 1997 crisis after which the first ODS government ended, and I also want to remind the last ODS government, which also did not turn out famously. I think that if you, colleagues and colleagues from the right-wing opposition, refer to the past, you should also say what you personally and your political parties have done in the past seven years and failed because you have been in government for the past seven years. You had a majority and you could implement your policy. Basically seven years of space for the realization of right-wing policy, first in the direction of ODS, folks, greens, then in the direction of ODS, TOP 09 and Public Affairs. Seven years. And if you are criticizing the government's plans today to improve some areas so that we can move something, I would ask you to honestly mention in each of these speeches what you have done, what you have achieved, and how successful you have actually been in these matters. I think the balance would be very sad. If I were you, ODS colleagues and TOP 09, I wouldn't go back to the past so much. I really wouldn't go back to it that much, because we're going to come to some terrible findings and we're going to remind you of the total disasters and tragedies that took place here during your reign. I don't want to talk too long, but really after the performances that have been here, I have to mention a few facts. It was said that the government had no concrete plan to combat unemployment. Although we have already talked about this in the Chamber of Deputies this week, although we have presented to the Chamber of Deputies the first rapid intentions of the government to do something about unemployment, although much of the government's agenda and the new coalition is focused on this area, the opposition is constantly saying that we have no concrete plan. Yet high unemployment, the 629,000 people without jobs, is the remains of the work of the previous government. And what did you do? How did the employment authorities work, how did the active employment policy work? One big disaster! You blame us for keeping the public budget deficit below 3% of gross domestic product. Even Mr. Stanjura said it might be less, that 3%, that it's a small ambition, that it should be less. I'm asking, what happened with the public debt under your government? You guys cut him down, that public debt? Nobody noticed. Public debt increased to 48% of gross domestic product. You started at 28 percent of GDP when the right-wing government came - 28 percent. When you're done, we're taking over the public debt of 48 percent of the gross domestic product. And you'll be lecturing us here that 3%, that it's too much, that it should be less and that we're a little ambitious government. Please - the European Union, drawing on the European Union's funds. Again. We've heard a number of recommendations on how this should be done. But you didn't make it. The fact that we lost CZK 10 billion last year - CZK 10 billion - is a huge amount in terms of public budgets - is the result of your government shutting down almost all the operational programs that the Czech Republic has for several months. You really didn't do it, and we're gonna pay for it. And unfortunately, maybe this year. If this government fails to prevent it, we will lose more European money. But last year's 10 billion crowns can be written off and, unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about it. And it is the result of your mistakes in drawing European money. You're telling us and making fun of some past statements in the sense that resources are, that taxes are actually increasing. What happened when you guys did it in the last seven years? When ODS and TOP 09 glued billboards to the Republic and your politicians were everywhere, and you all promised "we will not raise taxes"? How did it end the last time ODS and TOP 09 promised not to raise taxes? Well, out of 5% VAT on socially sensitive items, we got to 15 percent. That was not the increase in taxes promised by the Civil Democratic Party. It has somehow failed again to fulfill this promise. And at the end of the day, you guys got into a fight, and that was also the beginning of a trade-off case where part of your MPs didn't want to vote in favour of your own proposals to raise taxes because you said you wouldn't do anything like that before. So they gave up their mandate, and there was a transaction case that, after all, disbanded your last government. That's what happened the last time you promised not to raise taxes. And now you want to blame the new government? That he doesn't want to continue your politics? That we really won't increase the value added tax? That the middle class doesn't have to worry about this government raising their taxes in any way? It's just reality. Reality - and it will work this way over the next few years. [[16.20 hours]] Economic growth. As if it was a crime that, before you ruled, when there was a government other than the ODS government and the TOP 09, the economy grew by 6%. You're actually blaming us. Oh, my proboha, what the hell did you guys do to make the economy grow back then? Well, you failed, the country was in recession during the ODS and TOP 09 18 months. No wonder we won't repeat your mistakes. We're not going your way. We don't want to get in the same bad situation. When social democracy was in government, there was a 6% growth, for you there was an 18-month recession. I hope that this will not happen again and that the economy will grow in the next period. You're blaming us for canceling medical fees. And I'm asking how you stabilized health care. In what state of health we take over. In a situation where you, on the one hand, raised the patient's involvement and froze the state's payments for state insured persons. That means you've exhausted the system completely financially in recent years. You put him on the edge of the crisis. You've exhausted all the balances you've inherited from health insurance companies, and you're handing over the system to us. You're going to have a sluggish health insurance system, and now you're going to blame us for trying to stabilize the system. Again, an absolutely hypocritical reaction. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ready to debate, I am ready to participate actively, I am ready to acknowledge fair, real, honest arguments and to think about them. But if someone is suffering from memory loss and doesn't remember what he or his political party has been doing here for the past seven years, what they've been responsible for, and they're always carrying it here and now, and they're carrying it in the coming years, I don't think that's a decent and honest political debate in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u95	Thank you, Prime Minister. With a factual remark from the President of the Civil Democratic Party, Mr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u96	Prime Minister, I welcome, of course, the fact that we are having a debate here and that the members of the government are also debating, and it is certainly nothing that the opposition would blame you for. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the election campaign is over. Perhaps in the coalition with the ANO movement and the various wings in your party you expect the elections to be soon, but today we are not talking here as in the election campaign. We have responded from our rule, and I really must say that we have not convinced part of our electorate that we have done everything well. Well, that's what we paid for, and that's over. What is happening here today is discussing how you want to lead this country and what solutions you are offering. And it is hard to answer our criticism that your solutions will not work by pointing out, and again very generally, what we allegedly failed to do. I'll show you in one example. You said here that our governments have failed to draw funds from the European Structural Funds and that this is a mess. But ask yourself, who prepared the operating programs. Who's involved or blamed for having meaningless 24 operating programs? Who is to blame for the delay of all preparations at the beginning, and our governments have had a huge problem with the implementation of your set-up of operational programs at all? So if we talk about individual and concrete things, you'll see that the balance of governments in which the Civil Democratic Party was involved is not nearly as bad as you tried to show it here on a flat-rate basis, and that many of the things you're talking about are the government that you personally participated in as a social democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u97	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual application by Mr Laudát, the Prime Minister and Mr Zlatuška will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u98	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just two very briefly. I feel like he got provoked here or went back and went back with a long lecture to the past, Mr. Babiš. First of all. Secondly, I would like to say to the Prime Minister that when he says some negative things, he smiles. So I suggest he ask a psychologist or a psychiatrist what that means. And for the next, really, let's turn to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u99	prosit, with another factual remark, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u100	Thank you, because at least my performance made sense. honourable Members, Mr Vice-President, it seems that I have at least convinced one opposition Member, Mr Laudát of the TOP 09, that it makes sense to discuss the future and that there is no point going back to the miserable past of the past seven years when ODS and TOP 09 ruled here. But on the point of President Fiala's argument that social democracy is responsible for a large number of operational programmes, as he said here. Well, I'm sorry, but I remember exactly what it was. At a time when the structure of operational programmes was being prepared, and this was the government of social democracy in power - then I think he was Minister for Regional Development Jiří Paroubek, later Prime Minister - so at that time social democracy had no commanders. We were in almost all the regions in opposition, and I remember very well the joint statements and resolutions of the captains for the Civil Democratic Party, who, of course, demanded separate operational programmes, of course, wanted the maximum possible degree of autonomy for regions and regions. That's the thing the ODS officers were calling for back then. But the problem of failing to draw money and losing money from the European Union is not the problem of regional operational programmes, regional operational programmes. Look at this year. The risk is 24 billion. We can lose up to 24 billion this year. CZK from the European Union. The greatest risk lies in the Operational Programme Environment, which is managed by the Ministry of Environment. The second biggest risk is in the Operational Programme Science and Research for Innovation, which is managed by the Ministry of Education. That means the greatest risks are identified in central programs. So it's not the problem of regions, regional operational programs. But the fact that we have had such a large number of regional operational programmes is due, among other things, to the systematic functioning of the commanders for the Civil Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u101	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another factual remark, Mr Jiří Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u102	Mr President, on what the President of the ODS has asked, I would say that such names as Vitula or Kopicová can be recalled, more or less, by people whom he may consider to some extent as his friends. And I would also remind you that what is as a problem of drawing from the Operational Programme Research and Development for Innovation, so let him look at the last cast of the Council for Research, Development and Innovation, he will take one name after another and wonder why, at a time when the ODS Chairman was chief Science Advisor and Mrs Kopicová was Prime Minister Nečas' chief advisor, why these names got there, what is the common denominator and what is the common denominator of breaking the law. And the Prime Minister and others pretend they can't count to three when the law says no more than two terms of office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u103	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. With another factual remark, the President of the Civil Democratic Party, Mr Fiala. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u104	One comment, one piece of advice. Note: it is not that the Research, Development and Innovation Council has any influence on the drawing of operational programmes. Look into the law of competence. But look mainly at who manages individual operating programs. The Research Council is not involved in this at all. And second advice, Prime Minister. Take a look at the reasons why some of the financial amounts in the Research Operational Programme are not being used up. You will find, for example, that the construction of large infrastructures saved money through competitions, and that is the reason, and that is a good reason. So not all of the lack of funding from the European Structural Funds is wrong. But you need to understand the material and figure out why this situation is happening, and then you need to look at it differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u105	With another factual remark, Mr Jiří Zlatuška. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u106	I would like to point out, Mr President, if you have the opportunity to explain what is under the authority of the RVVI, that there are programmes that will then ensure further operational financing for those projects where the original promised objectives are not being met. And the moment you look at each other's names, the key is clear. Where new bombastic, megalomanian investments were planned without proper reasonable security by commercial revenues, there is another key.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u107	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't really want to do this. I think we're spinning around a little bit, but I can't resist. It is my responsibility now, too, and unfortunately, Mr President, I must say to my colleague, Mr Fial, by your means, Mr President, that he is wrong about where the problem was. Unfortunately, it is clear now that the 10 billion that the Czech Republic has lost irrecoverably in 2013 are six billion in the area of the Environment Operational Programme. And the reason we're already trying to catch a cat by the tail today is because the axe was created in 2010, in 2011, when Mr. Drobil, I suspect, was the Minister of the Environment, later Mr. Chalupa. And because they didn't draw, there were no challenges at all, so unfortunately, the hundreds of projects that are already in time loss and some non-refundable have been created there. That is an indisputable fact, and even in 2014, we will fight it very hard, as the Prime Minister said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u109	Thank you, Minister. With another factual remark, Minister Věra Jourová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will refrain from describing who is responsible and looking backwards. I'd like to look into the future. I'd like to inform you that 10 billion. Although they seem irretrievably lost, we are still discussing with the European Commission the possibility of applying Articles 95 and 96 of the General Regulation to funds where some of our objections and analyses would still apply. For example, some undersupply was caused by a higher power, flood, or economic crisis. Brusel is waiting for our arguments. So it's going to be 10 billion. We're still doing the best we can. But I'm sure it won't be too much money to save. And, of course, what the Prime Minister said, the prognosis on the 24 billion. for this year it is real and there we will take all possible steps that would lead to maximum drawdown. However, not at the cost of financing risky or extremely operationally demanding projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u111	Thank you, Minister. Since I do not see here with the priority right registered by Minister Válková, she is not present, I am erasing her. And even though it's probably not for hockey tonight, we're finally getting proper applications, and I'm gonna ask Mrs Olga Havlová for her proper application. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u112	Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, colleagues, I will take this from another court and finally start talking about the current government, which is waiting to express confidence or distrust. I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's speech on how his government is to lead this country and what changes he is preparing for which citizens have been impatiently waiting for for a long time. But I would start with what I missed in his speech. First of all, these are very modest words about the introduction of property returns. The programme statement states: "The Government will take the necessary steps in the area of proof of the origin of the acquired property and will take appropriate measures in tax and criminal law in this context.' What is an adequate measure? Honestly, these words cannot be understood by a strict law on proof of the origin of property, which would have to be proved backwards, for example, which is quite disappointing for me. I also did not like it when the coalition rejected all the proposals to increase expenditure on teachers' salaries, which included our proposal when discussing the budget. Even though I believe that most Members have agreed to do so. I do not want to break a staff over anybody and I try to see it as a way that the government has basically taken over the budget already prepared and needs time to breathe and prepare a budget better for next year, where even higher salaries for teachers can be found money. I will monitor the administration very closely, also in relation to pensioners. In particular, as the Prime Minister referred to it, on the issue of pension valorisation and the renewal of the tax deduction for retired workers. And here in the future, in their unfulfilled vows, I will not forgive them. In 14 days since the new government has been appointed, we have had little opportunity to know which direction it will take and how it could present itself in the future. On the contrary, what I am assessing positively are some of its steps, such as the personnel changes that are being made to the Road and Motorway Directorate. Minister of Transport Prachař pulled an ex-director of quality control of buildings directly to his team at the Ministry and there is no choice but to hope that he will continue his work here. Because if we want to save money in the state budget, it's just the money in the Department of Transport. I have also done a very good personal experience with the Minister of the Environment, Mr Brabc, who I have dealt with to investigate in detail the frauds that have been going on in the project to build sewerage and sewage treatment plant in Jindřichov, Silesia, where I am a representative, and against which I have been acting for years. He is perhaps the first person on such an important function to show interest in doing something about it. Given the situation in the Moravian-Silesian Region and OKD, I try to promote the possibility of early retirement in particularly demanding professions, especially with miners. Their average life expectancy often doesn't even allow them to live to get a real retirement. In this matter, I am preparing an amendment to the law and I am very pleased that the new Minister of Social Affairs not only sees this problem, but is willing to continue discussing this tense situation. The words of the Minister of Agriculture Jurečka were also very encouraging when I interpelled him on the management of the Forest of the Czech Republic. If he really fills his words about the solution to the situation of the director of the Forests of the Czech Republic, the words about the change in management and especially the change in logging and the sale of wood, I will be satisfied. And there's one more thing I need to mention. He's Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Babiš. The House is a legislative body, and I am very concerned that although the Minister's trial is under way, the legislators themselves do not honor the presumption of innocence. Ladies and gentlemen, saying no to any government just because it has not yet been able to convince its work is simple, hypocritical and short-sighted. Although the members of the government and the coalition have enough votes and I am meeting on their part with a positive approach and a willingness to work together to solve the problems that are really bothering people, the coalition has not found a way to communicate with us about the support of the government. [[16.40 hours]] If the coalition's behaviour is as it has been, and if the government really keeps the promises it is giving us today, then it would deserve a chance in today's vote, but on the other hand, we regret that the whole coalition does not take us as political partners and has not yet found its way to us. For these reasons, we will not support the government directly, but at the very least, by leaving, we will tolerate it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u113	Thank you, Mrs Havlová. With another proper application is Mr David Kádner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u114	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have been waiting for several votes on the trust of the government that I am going through as a Member. I do not want to disrespect the Government's programming statement, but the truth is that it is not only about what the government commits to us in writing, but the real fulfillment of promises is all the more important. Today, too, I have the need to justify my decision here on whether to show confidence in the government that we have all been waiting for for for a long eight months. As mayor of a small village, I am used to constructive politics, and I also follow it here in the Chamber of Deputies. Politics is part of the electoral struggles, not here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. This should be about opinions and not who's in the coalition or opposition. In this context, I am really glad that a lot of new Members have appeared here, and I feel that political culture is really better here than in the last parliamentary term. I myself would like to finally enforce some fundamental laws for me in this parliamentary term. One of them is definitely an amendment to the material emergency promised by Minister Dienstbier in the framework of the legislative process within two months, and my personal priority is the so-called necessary defence, so that every citizen can defend himself against an ambush in his own time or apartment without being threatened by a trial. I am pleased that this amendment has already been requested by the Ministry of the Interior for consultation. At the same time, I am very curious to see how the new finance minister stands up to the problem of the failed RUD, in which Mr Kalousek managed to separate 57 municipalities, which are now in serious trouble. But unfortunately, I lack the promise of a direct election of mayors and other important legislative things that have already been negotiated in the last parliamentary term, and these are essential legislative plans not only for citizens but also for mayors. Nevertheless, I want to give the government the opportunity to start working and fulfill the promises that the coalition has made to voters, and that is why today, when voting together with the Dawn of Direct Democracy, I will leave the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u115	I thank Mr David Kádner. With another proper application, Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u116	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I realise that I am one of the 28, which will certainly prolong this negotiations, but I am already signed up, so I will take it from here. [[Voice from the right side of the hall.]] No, co-worker, I'm not turning myself in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u117	I ask my colleagues not to shout at each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u118	I'm sorry. Despite the critical response, which, of course, calls for the proposal of the government's programme statement in opposition, namely, for members of the former government coalition, it is quite obvious that it is only the current government coalition that, after seven long years, presents - and I believe realistic - a programme to correct public finances and their long-term sustainability, a programme which must be considered, in addition to the absolutely necessary support for economic growth, as one of the fundamental tasks of the state's economic policy. We can turn over the various measures contained in the passages of the government's programming declaration, we can argue whether or not the government's proposed measures are going in the right direction, whether or not they should be forceful or less forceful and so on. However, we cannot deny the fact that we are coming to ask for trust from the first government, whose programming statement is based on a very simple and perhaps even primitive intention to establish order in the Czech Republic. It's about time. It is precisely the state, its functioning and its management and, above all, its budgetary policy, which needs to establish order, as they say, as a goat of gossip. It's not a discovery, I'm sure. Just look backwards for a few years at what intentions state public budgets have been drawn up with and how they have also fallen when confronted with the results of the state's final accounts. This comparison will show us in full nudity the fact that the budgetary procedure in the Czech Republic was poorly managed, planned and controlled. Instead of a conceptual long-term budgetary policy, which, of course, is crucial for the stability, behaviour and decision-making of all the entities, public finances have, so-called day-to-day, followed ad hoc budget packages, often combined with ongoing cuts on the expenditure side of the budget. In most cases, they also meant nothing more than driving the Czech economy into recession and increasing hidden debts. The whole infrastructure of the Czech state is marked by these today, whether it be defence and security, whether it be health, education, culture, environmental protection, but also transport, of course. In my view, therefore, the proposals of the Government's programming statement are a clear promise that something like this will not happen again. One of the basic assumptions for correcting public budgets is the introduction of order on the revenue side of the budget and the establishment of elementary tax justice. It is absolutely necessary to remove from our tax system privileges for various interest groups and individuals, consisting of the privilege of being taxed less than others are taxed. Likewise, tax evasion must be combated decisively. Tax evasion is not an act that harms no one. It harms not only the state, but, as a result, it harms all citizens. All the more so are those to whom the state can reach more easily, especially employees. If tax evasion were significantly reduced, tax revenues could increase by more than 100 billion at the most moderate estimate. CZK annually without having to increase nominal tax rates in a more pronounced way. It cannot be seen that the programming declaration in this respect represents an undisputed breakthrough. It includes the introduction of second-generation checkouts, the so-called e-booking of sales, the introduction of property returns or restrictions on cash payments, measures the introduction of which the parties to the former right-wing coalitions have long refused and also blocked. However, it also contains a number of other measures that will significantly increase the risk of detection and punishment of this reprehensible act. It is likable that, with the same logic, the programming declaration also approaches the expenditure side of public budgets. It is evident that, unlike the previous coalition, it understands perfectly clearly that it is necessary to establish order and elementary rules of effectiveness in public expenditure, that they must start saving themselves, in all parts of public budgets. In my view, this procedure is also a fundamental rejection of the current comfortable logic that the most important must be to save on social expenditure, especially on pensions, because that is where the budget is best spent. [[16.50 hours]] Just as rational and absolutely necessary are the government's intentions before any intervention to thoroughly map out what is actually paying from individual budgets, whether we also miss public money through various untethered faucets of various pseudo-projects. I am convinced that we can all be surprised at what can hide money and who is connected to it in public budgets. I am afraid that the social and economic crisis in the Czech Republic has not ended and will not end until an army of unemployed people is growing until new jobs start to grow massively until real wages and overall incomes start to rise significantly until the numbers of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion start to fall significantly from society. Until then, there are also debates on whether gross domestic product will finally grow by 1% after the previous long-term decline, or by 1,5 percent I think rather irrelevant. I believe that, despite the flashing positive reports on economic recovery, this long-term and stable economic growth will not fall free of charge from the sky nor will it automatically come from abroad, but it will cost much effort not only to the government, the business sphere, the territorial authorities and other entities, but also to the money - I note - to the public budget money. I really can't do this without them. In addition to the necessary and programmed declaration of a clearly declared commitment to respect for the fiscal criteria of Maastricht, namely compliance with the general government deficit of less than 3% of gross domestic product, the Czech Republic urgently needs to maintain social systems throughout its term, which will ensure decent conditions of life for Czech citizens affected by the crisis, and not survival in poverty. I believe that there is and must be a fundamental objective of the state and its institutions to protect and protect their citizens from the effects of the crisis and not to destroy already poor social systems protecting a citizen in the event of illness, unemployment or old age, as in some cases unfortunately they have successfully tried their so-called. Reforms of the previous government coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary to establish an elementary order in public finances to make money for these basic tasks, especially the money itself, not the money borrowed or donated for example. from the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I support the government's statement, and I will act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u119	I thank Mr Votav. With another proper application, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today she has come before us with a request for confidence in the coalition government, which wants to be different from that of Nečasův, and is pleased to hear it, because the Czech Republic and its administration urgently need change. No, I do not deny the Prime Minister's declared effort and determination to rule differently, more responsibly and closer to the principles of the rule of law, and I do not deny that the programming declaration itself promises much and could not, perhaps, be the basis for a fundamental change, but at least the first step towards a more effective and democratic style of governance and to a more qualified, at least somewhat socially responsible governance of the state. However, the problems of past years that escalated in 2012 continue. You can't break the economy overnight. The socio-economic situation is so serious that no short-term measures can reverse it. It will have unpleasant consequences not only this year but probably next year. Many experts even admit that the legacy of the destructive economic policy of previous right-wing governments can last for another five years. Yes, investment was being saved, and we were losing the future. The coordination of government and monetary policy was virtually zero. When we think about the direction of the state budget and what the Czech National Bank is doing, it is clear that budgetary and monetary policy even go against each other. The prerequisites for change must therefore create a completely absent economic policy of the government and, of course, a reasonable state budget. Among other things, because our economy has long lived with considerable or even terrible unemployment. Unfortunately, it's built on it directly. I agree with those who consider the development of internal demand, consumption growth and investment growth to be a key impetus for the recovery of the economy. I remind the government coalition that every year approximately 250 billion leave the Czech economy. dividends abroad that are not productively used or invested in strengthening production potential. No, I can't agree with those who exaggerately claim: Time has broken the curtain and changed the world. Nothing. Nothing's changed at all. Of course, Sobotkův's government promises almost everything in its programming statement to citizens. However, it would not be prudent to believe this without fail. How are we supposed to trust your conclusions when you do not trust each other and you commit yourselves to something on the one hand, and on the other hand, you have already begun to break your promises, blackmail each other, and replace quality with provisionalism? One of them is the semi-finished service law, and together with him, the remarkable move on the political deputy positions and the distribution of the newsrooms. What's worse, the particular members of the government coalition have been able to break even the basics in recent weeks. I am referring here to the commitment of constitutional officials to respect the principles of the rule of law, defend the constitutional rights of citizens, and also to the international conventions on human rights by which our Republic is bound. Yes, your alleged support for democracy and fundamental human rights has already been measured by the current course of the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations. And so I ask: What makes your commitments and their mechanism different from the rolling of the opposition and coalition trades that the current Prime Minister has so harshly and uncompromisingly criticized on his predecessors? All indications suggest that the government coalition acts as a declaratory blind man of good intentions, but it is burdened with old vices. However, it is worth recalling that even Nečasův' coalition began with a respectable majority, even with 118 mandates, and, unlike the current one, with the extraordinary support of the servil media, which presented it as an alleged government of budgetary responsibility and the fight against corruption. [[17,00 hours]] What good is this for today when we assess the intentions of the new coalition government and the style it wants to promote them? Its predecessor began as a coalition with media advertising of the purified virtual Mr Čistý and also as the government of the best European finance minister. Both of them, for different reasons, eventually lost the media halo. And what does the Czech Social Democratic Party, YES and KDU-ČSL indicate about the government's limits in the composition of the Czech Social Democratic Party? First of all, the strongest parties in the government coalition have hit the election vows hard. These are the political pressures of the top KDU-ČSL on the implementation of the mandate of constitutional officials and the pressure imposed on coalition parties and the Prime Minister and his cabinet. Until recently, I thought the current government coalition was, after all, a little different from its predecessor. I don't think so anymore, because people say they don't even want to hear about any legitimate interference with the so-called. Church restitutions. As part of a government coalition, however, they could at least realize that if there is no money to raise pensions, to make decent contributions to children, to active employment policy, to invest, so giving now an incredibly large financial compensation to churches is an extraordinary gamble with public finances! Surely everyone knows, at least a little bit, that the protagonists of the religious prelates and the former government coalitions have done this quite cleverly. Even so cunningly, church subjects lead not only the state but also the regions, municipalities and private individuals to the courts. That is why I am publicly calling on the Prime Minister to return to that law. Among other things, it is because 81 percent of our fellow citizens want it. Those facts then show how weak the foundation and how unreliable the government that asks us for trust is based. What can we do? We'll have to deal with it somehow! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u121	Thank you. Next for the debate is Mr. Jiří Dolejš and Mr. Laudát František will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u122	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially those who are not going to switch to the upcoming hockey push between the Czech Republic and Slovakia, so I will allow myself a few brief remarks that have been chosen from the programme statement package in particular in the area of economic policy, because, like in the US President Bill Clinton's campaign, he warned his voters that it was in economics, asshole! I think that if we really don't have the government's promises to pay, then promises just turn out of hope into illusions. And I think it's very important to do this, especially to do this. But before I go into this, I would like to escalate, perhaps not so for colleagues and colleagues, they may have already learned the nuances of the Rules of Procedure, but for the few who may still be watching the transmission from the Chamber of Deputies and the vote on confidence in the government, to make it clear that the vote on government is either supportive of the government, that is clearly the hundredth of our three-wheelers, or we will not support the government. And this non-support can take two forms: it can be either not, and this is our exclusive right-wing opposition, which has not left dry thread on the government - but from right-wing positions, or it is a delay that is also unsupportable, and it presents as a certain attitude towards the government of the KSČM. The meaning is simple. We think government promises are worth the attention, but unfortunately, we fear that these promises may not be fulfilled. And we're not a semi-position that puts a foot in a government door, even if they don't want it there. We're not going to leave the vote, and we're not going to lower the vote, even though I think 111 votes would be richly enough. We don't need to make gestures like that. We are trying to explain in substance what we lack in the government's programme and what is inadequately explained there, how the government wants to implement it. In short, the opposition can also be factual. He doesn't have to do such a fucking policy that if I'm not in the government, I can't do any harm, so at least I'll stink. I think that the issue of opposition policy is very important because in a way - and listen, gentlemen and ladies in the coalition - opposition criticism can also be free of charge when you sometimes lack to articulate these problems from some party or other loyalty. And now I am returning to the problem of the economic core of the government's agenda, or, if you will, new economic policies, as Prime Minister Sobotka has called it, which I do not run into any other new economic policy, rather I want to conclude that she is not that new. There is quite a problem here to clarify whether what is being presented is only a certain correction of the state where, as the Foreign Minister said, as I listened carefully, affected by entropy, chaos and turbulence, and therefore the government will bring into this chaos a certain order, whether it is the correction of the mistakes of the previous governments of Nečas, Topolánek etc., or whether it is a real substantial change, which they promised before the elections to voters. It seems to me that the changes really are very partial, that this is only a correction, and that therefore we will have to wait for a deeper change. Yet I think that some of the economic sub-targets may be interesting, but that economic or financial security is somehow not read from the program and of course it is clear that there cannot be detailed analyses, analyses, figures; this is not a function of the government program, but it should be clear where and how we want to take it. And I'm afraid the faster Cobra won't collect enough extra money in one year to compensate for some of the things that will be required in the draft budget for 2015. I fear that even the vision of new, state-of-the-art registers will not bring enough money into the budget so that it will work similarly, and the gentlemen in the government need not fear that there will be no money for their demands and electoral promises. On the contrary, some systemic issues are dealt with in half. Here I would mention the chronic matter of this House, almost 20 years of appearing here, and that is a property confession. In the end, the property return remained in a semi-circular shape, and thus the confession of only public persons, even in a regime which seems to be what it was primarily about, i.e. the area and sanctions of persons who have illegally reached the property, whether they are currently in politics or are not, it will not be dealt with there. [[17.10 hours]] The government is taking on its role in the atmosphere of the expected economic recovery. Therefore, the programming declaration declares the priority of starting sustainable growth. Here, colleagues in particular from social democracy - the Minister of Finance was rather discussing oil products, as I listened to, and other things - but colleagues in social democracy expressed a little bit of the problem in words that - I just felt déjà vu. In short, they said it was irrelevant to discuss what economic growth we were actually able to achieve. And in precisely these words, Mr. Emeritus Minister of Finance Kalousek explained to us both in 2009, and in 2012 that we must not ask the government to change the draft state budget in the situation of entropy and turbulence, it will somehow turn out, and in the course of the year we will somehow shake it down into numbers that we will eventually declare the only correct one. And I don't think it's that big of a deal, because if I were to evaluate the growth measures that the government is applying to, they're very small. And it seems that the government expects it to ride on such a wave of recovery, and it's very important how strong the wave will be or if we add something of our own to it. For next year, actually for this year, we have 2014, from last year's declines of 1% is planned 2 percent plus. We don't know if it's gonna come true. But if all those promises were to be fulfilled, then we should achieve really robust growth. At least I would estimate it to be 4 percent plus GDP so that the order of 50 to 100 billion crowns would be available. And I fear that such a prognosis cannot really be built without more relevant tools. If we look at the government's capital spending, what do we know? Well, we're told that the government wants to stabilize resources in the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. What's that - stabilize? Does that mean leaving them at the current level? Well, probably. But then it follows that the only thing that matters to the government is, let's say, more rationally placing these funds, not wasting so much. But it's just a kind of technocratic vision that if the dreddy gets really squealed by the whip, that in a quick time, the multiplier effect of the transport constructions will multiply. What I'm missing is funding the second state fund, and that's the State Housing Development Fund. Not only because housing is socially important, but also because investing in housing will help the construction department faster, that the multiplier effect is much better there. If we are looking not only in the programming statement, but especially in the government's statement where they want to take money further, we will learn that they want to sort out the state accounts in some way. But it's also not that simple, because if they don't mean the extraordinary distribution of dividends, of course, and that's true, it's possible, but dividends are always decided on the basis of the annual deadline. The shareholder may therefore propose that dividends be not reinvested and transferred to the Treasury, for example; when it comes to shareholders of the state, it is a special means and we will see it again after a year's settlement. But when it comes to the capital accounts of individual state-owned companies, I'm afraid it's not that simple and it's not that easy at all. For that there is even a Brussels directive, and it simply takes the money that is in the Czech National Bank. It is, of course, a good idea to finally, after years, when we have been members of the European Union since 2004, to make good use of European funds. That's a really great idea, but you'd just like to know how you want to make it work much better from now on. These are investments and resources that could either be invested or supported mainly by domestic demand. And then there's another pro-growth tool, the pro-growth factor, and that's the pro-export agenda. This is the mantra of all previous governments, not only Nečasův and Topolánkův, but even the elders. We talk about this much while finding out that ČEZ, EGAP are institutions that do not work 100%, sometimes the police come to see something. Moreover, we also know that the actual development of exports does not go at the rate of the increase in domestic economic product in volume, but that only the balance enters there. And when we look at Europe's slight revival, the outcome of foreign trade last year, I regret to say that the contribution to the dynamics of gross domestic product is very small. We have here the Czech National Bank's pro-export activity. True. The way they practiced the exchange rate could, we don't have the numbers yet, so I'm saying it could help export. It is quite important there, to what extent things are already covered before the course moves, what foreign demand looks like. We'll see. In any case, the President, as I listened to him, expressed his dislike for the Czech National Bank's monetary exercise. I don't know if he was discussing this with a new member of the Bank Board, Mr. Rusnok. When he was Prime Minister, I remember he supported it. So it's going to be more complicated with the pro-export growth support tool. The previous government, the government of Petr Nečas, which had even more mandates than you, 118, called itself the government of budgetary responsibility. Even from the elections it came from, there was a hysterical scarecrow in those elections that if we weren't hard-pressors, a Greek monster would come and we'd go on the road to state bankruptcy. Looks like this ghost has already returned to his den. It's not haunting us anymore. That may be good, but it may also have something to do with the fact that the global and European crises have slightly eased and that we may actually see a recovery. But aside from the government's promise to fit into the Maastricht criteria, I mean the 3% deficit, so it might not be a good idea to know if it intends to have a public debt target. We were talking here last week about the design of the Czech debt brake. We returned it as something that should come out of the government workshop. The government promised to return to this and that it would submit something under its responsibility. But if he has the opportunity to present something, we won't know if he wants to fix public debt at 50 percent, which would still be below the 60% threshold, or if he wants to use the interval properly, because of course the space is there. The government is claiming pro-European orientation. True, we are part of the economic union, and we have also spoken for the euro project in the referendum, but when I learn that the government is, of course, not naive enough to think that we can accept the euro within two or three years, but it says that it wants to work on the conditions for the euro, one must ask what, because the Maastricht criteria are currently being met. So what else is there? I ask whether the criterion or the condition should be real convergence of the economic level, because then the consequences of the adoption of the euro are smaller. Or the condition is the amount of the exchange rate, because there is a difference whether we accept the euro if it costs CZK 23 or CZK 28. That's a hell of a difference. And a number of other problems, including not entry into the euro area, but entry into the European monetary mechanism, where it must go two years before that deadline. And if, for example, the euro is considered from 2019, I will deduct two years and we have 2017, which is the end of the term of office. So these are things that we don't know yet from the programming statement, and I'm afraid we won't know today, even if some government ministers respond because I'm afraid they haven't settled this in the coalition yet. And such unspoken, yet strategically important things are likely to be there. Each economist will confirm that, apart from money, these are the blood of the economy, energy is very important to the economy. It is here to update, discuss a new state energy concept. And I've even read somewhere, I think it was in the coalition agreement that you want to discuss this concept to be stable across the political spectrum. Fine. Excellent. And this is a contribution to the debate on this state energy concept? [[17.20 hours]] So, first of all, we learn that the core yes, that again is nothing new, that in this country mostly applies since always, in principle, except for the short extempore when the greens were in the government, so no one has had a more fundamental conceptual problem with it, but what is important - how, to what extent, under what economic conditions, which is the message that the completion of JET should be economically beneficial. And I'm afraid that the procedure here, as far as the ČEZ request for guaranteed nuclear energy prices is concerned, is not sufficiently clarified, but that is the parameter through which the train, as they say, does not go. At the same time, the government says that it will adopt a law on reducing dependence on fossil fuels, that is the British model, but once again adds that only if it does not fall on the competitiveness of the Czech industry. So I'm a deer. Now I really don't know what this energy mix is going to look like, and I can only say that it's only right that you want to discuss this across the political spectrum and that the expert teams will finally start working on it. One such item, which still has some meaning in public finances, although it is no longer like when Mr Klaus and others were Prime Minister, for example, and these are privatization revenues. The state as well has property. I would like you to say quite clearly that apart from some marketable small things in the stock portfolio, it will not be privatized and that the inalienability of certain companies is guaranteed, not only by the state forests, but also by Czech Post, South Bohemia, the obligatory evergreen Budvar, but especially by reducing the state's share in ČEZ. We won't know anything about that. To avoid being too long, I'm just going to take a moment to look at the possible structure and tensions in the balance sheet of public finances, the state budget. I've already said that when it comes to capital spending, the government actually speaks somewhat Solomonian, that it wants to intensify public buildings, construction and, at the same time, that it wants to limit the volume, i.e. the reduced volume. I don't think that's a big fiscal impulse in capital spending, but okay. But let's remember that there are a number of items in the program that are also not very small. I will ask what it means not to cut salaries in the public sphere when it has been discussed for a long time that the tariff system should be far more incentive. Of course, when it comes to unemployment, economic growth will be the best and the best way to ensure this. But they will have to solve hot problems in regions such as northern Moravia or northern Bohemia, and these structurally affected regions will require help from the government. And that's clear, fast, and, of course, budget. I have no doubt that tripartite negotiations will still be discussed, but unfortunately, even though it is a good thing that the government wants to engage in social dialogue, so far as I know, after the negotiations with the unions, there have been a number of topics that have not yet been incorporated into the draft programming statement, so in this respect we are once again only on promises. Public services, both health and pension systems, are extremely important. It is a large pie of money, and if we look for example at the pension system, it is a good thing that pension valorization will be restored, even I think I have heard somewhere the new Minister of Labour and Social Affairs speak of the amount of CZK 270 in 2015, which is slightly better than in the past when pensioners received CZK 30 or 40. They really got a lot going for that. But I fear that there remains an unresolved problem of compensation that pensions have been frozen in the long run, that, in particular, below-average pensions have entered the poverty-risk zone, and if we should take this seriously and important for social reconciliation and peace in the country, these are further budgetary demands. Not to mention whether or not he will support the grant support of the third pillar of the pension system, how the experiment with the pension system will be concluded, etc. We should also contribute something to the regions. There is an unspecific, yet at least a flat-mentioned guarantee for social services that come into the regions. I don't know if at the level of last year's planned or really budgeted. There's a pretty significant difference. You know there was a budget change. The regions will also probably want a contribution to transport infrastructure. Probably before the parentheses the issue of church property was removed, even though it enters every budget of the year. As far as monetary payments are concerned, this is entering a not insignificant amount, but it is also unclear over the long term. So that's a whole series of spending requirements that are not crediblely garnered with regard to the revenue side. Here, I think, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Votava, spoke of the fact that this government has tax justice on its flag. That is, of course, godly, but when we look specifically at what tax proposals the government is expecting, so apart from the moratorium this year, which really cannot be done anyway, I do not know if the relationship between the programme statement and the coalition agreement, where we will find almost nothing in the tax declaration, but at least in the coalition agreement we learn that not increasing VAT can also mean reducing VAT. And that reduction not only in drugs, but even in diapers etc., books, child food etc. etc. So the programming statement to the coalition agreement is complementary, or have you lost your courage, and the few lines to the program statement in such an important matter were no longer worth it to you? Is the subject, I would say, of astrological considerations the question of sectoral tax? I know you didn't pay yourself, but in the coalition contract you have to consider introducing a sector tax, but you know that chasing small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, businessmen, threatening them that their behavior in terms of tax collection is such a nasty word, tax optimization, the small ones you dare, but those big ones who are often in an oligopolistic position, don't we dare? There would be a clear budget yield. That's corporate taxes. And the progression of personal income taxes, it's really just symbolic. She's just trying not to say there's a progression. So these are tax proposals. I don't want to look for an interesting background in the fact that green diesel hasn't been forgotten, even because I think green oil isn't such a bad idea. Let's see how the excise duty on alcohol, wine, biofuels goes. All of this will undoubtedly be interesting, too. But you dropped the tax on financial transactions, more progression in property tax, i.e. large assets. All of this will be missing on the revenue side of the state budget. And that's, I'd say, the crisis scenario that he's been bitching about here, but rightfully, Mr. President, when he said it might turn out that this economic recovery isn't going to be so big that revenue is going to be missing, and if you want to keep it, then 2015 and the 2015 budget will start with a big push. So if I sum it up, there's a lot of buts. Indeed, the proposal is not economically consistent and sophisticated. Perhaps some of you had the good will to offer some hope, albeit small. But the guarantee is minimal. There, if these guarantees are not, it is very real that promises will turn into very vague - now I have borrowed a vague word from Mr. Emeritus President Václav Klaus, but exceptionally a person can agree with this person that they are vague illusions, and therefore if your main clients, both quantitatively and socially, should be employees, it should also be small and small entrepreneurs, if they were to be clients of public services, so on these people... Unfortunately, you haven't given them much hope yet. So far, it looks more like the illusions. That's why we think about them. [[17.30 hours]] Indeed, trust cannot be given to you from this leftist opposition point of view. And we don't really fit into that door, we don't stick our foot in there like colleagues from another, I'd say right-wing side, hopefully it doesn't touch them, Dawn colleagues. But we think it's possible to pressure those promises not to stay on paper. It needs to be done. It's a completely substantive policy, and he's gonna test us. After all, a hundred days of defending I think that in this case, when it took a hundred days for a government to come into existence at all, it's a useless thing. I think material criticism can start from tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u123	Thank you. Another member of the debate is Mr.František Laudát and will be prepared by Jiří Koubek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u124	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen and Minister. The rest of the government probably is no longer worth listening to the really logged in to the debate after the fight. I'm sorry. I would begin by thanking the two previous speakers for consistently separating the right-wing opposition from the left-wing, because we will not really support the TOP 09 will not support this government, but I would quite turn against calling it Dawn as the right-wing party. I think it's a group of people who give clear instructions on how to blow up this country. I'm going to try to divide my performance, which is going to be longer this time, into two parts. In one, I'm going to focus on traffic, and I'm going to try to stick to what we've got in our mailboxes, and in the other, I'm going to have a broader view of the entire programming document. Like the President, I have a problem with this, and I do not remember here that it is divided into two parts: both the government's programming statement and the coalition treaty. I am here to comment on the coalition agreement - of course I cannot criticize the Minister because the text was known before Christmas, and Babiš talked Mr. Future Minister about Christmas - and I am going to bounce into the government's programming statement, which I think is probably done by some PR agency, because it has not only managed to pull phrases out of the coalition agreement in this chapter, where at least there are a little bit more real things, just into the programming statement. So to the coalition agreement. The whole chapter is formulated in the style of promise you will not grieve. It lacks a logical sequence of individual transport agendas. They're constantly intersecting. Like the entire document, there is no chapter on the economic balance sheet on the reality of the programme. The implementation of all the promises made in the programme would mean spending at least ten or more of the country's national budgets. This is avoided by the authors of the text by unspecific wordings. You will find there many times: we will support, we will increase the amount of resources, we will support development, we will put emphasis on it. There are remarkably few specific numbers in the document. In the coalition contract, the increase in the share of the excise tax revenue for the State Fund's budget of transport infrastructure to a minimum of 25 per cent. As is more traditional, as I remember, the Social Democrats, of course, are not mentioned at the expense of which other chapters, because public money, whether it pleases or dislikes, is one ranch. Implementation of cost expertise for construction investments over 50 million. CZK, supervision of the proper conduct of public competitions and quality project preparation would be cheaper, they would be significantly more effective. I'm involved in some action where there are 11 levels of control, and I'm not so sure it works. The economic position of transport is covered by the objective of achieving the share of resources in transport infrastructure up to 2 per cent of gross domestic product, which is not enough for such extensive plans that I mentioned at the outset. That's a little over 70 billion crowns. Before the 2008 crisis, the amount was significantly higher. Even once, the record with European subsidies was about 110 billion crowns. The above three economic quantifications of the chapter end. Unlike in the program document, it has already been mentioned here, increased R52, R6, R35, R43, R49, D3, D8, D11, R1 - Prague circuit. To that I would say, when the Minister of Finance here calls for connections with Austria through southern Bohemia, there is no R3. D11 ends up at Jaroměř, so what about R11? A very painful place with notorious unemployment is Mostecko, then I ask, if we want to fight unemployment, why isn't there a bloody road that is definitely R7. And so I could go on. Like the economic balance sheet, there is no specific priority specification in the chapter. The document can identify the following specific priorities: Speedway R35, probably a section of Opatovice-Mohelnice, because if it is a priority in the whole length, in this economic situation and in terms of readiness it would be bent because R35 is not only in the critical place needed between, let's say, Hradec Králové and Olomouc. Then there is the completion of the third and fourth railway corridor, which is no longer mentioned in the programming statement, the study of the Danube-Odra-Labe channel, also not in the programming statement anymore, thank God I say. Establishment of a regulatory office for railway carriers, I don't think it's there anymore either. The quantification of the other priorities set out in the Coalition Treaty can be speculated. The text of the chapter of modern transport is confusing in terms of the division of competences of the municipality, the region, the state. Even in the current state debt situation, the programme is intended to increase ambition into the powers of municipalities and regions, which is to ensure the coherence of integrated transport systems. In several other matters, it promises support for cycling, pedestrian transport. It is not specified who the state will assist in the procurement of environmentally friendly vehicles. A parallel of truck support is offered in the form of toll discounts. In the environmental chapter 4.4. Air and quality of life even the coalition dares to fully coordinate - I quote: "We will support the development of pedestrian and cycling transport in municipalities and cities, coordinated throughout the territory. " [[street network planning, passageways, pedestrian zones, bike paths]] Moving costs from roads to railroads is generally a good goal. However, the coalition programme ends with this basic declaration. It's nothing new, not even a hint of how they're going to do it. There may be nothing new, road versus railroad, except attempts to match the toll on the road. The mention of making quick connections is positive. It's not in the coalition agreement anymore, but Mr. Babiš here mentions it as a priority, by which he means a fast railroad, he calls it. But the text doesn't respect the consistency of the individual steps in the preparation of the project, it's confusing again. The construction of transport infrastructure is no longer hindered by so much legislation, which is urgently called for as bailout milk in both the coalition contract and the programming declaration, but the inefficient performance of state institutions in the public consultation of buildings, land purchase and the formulation of land planning documentation. Although the document talks about the need to prepare large buildings, it does not mention the initial problem - the quality of the project and the responsibility of the designers. The part about air transport does not reflect the real priorities of air transport and does not respond to any of the important issues. As far as the programme statement is concerned, I would like to draw the public's attention, and this convinced me that she had to do this, the final review, the PR agency, not the Minister of Transport - there is a sentence: The government will complete the sections with links to TEN-T networks. That's really there. [[17.40 hours]] Probably everyone here who has fought with the transport ministers on the Economic Committee knows that the TEN-T networks run through us, that there are a number of unfinished sections. Coincidentally, some of these priorities are not mentioned and I don't know what we're going to connect. If this coalition were to achieve that there is a need for a missing motorway section on the TEN-T routes, whether in the Czech countries or in Moravia, it would be very beneficial for this country. But when a person criticizes, he might also say what he thinks is missing. So, in my opinion, the chapter lacks a system approach, respect for the multimodal nature of transport. Ignoring this logical investment decision-making tool causes considerable damage. There is no tool to build transport terminals, the whole chapter lacks a key tool for accessing transport investment, necessity, feasibility. This opens the way to inefficient investment, bending priorities based on lobbyist pressures and corruption, to the small benefits of our economy in real time. In the text of the whole chapter there is no mention of the electronization of transport, or, if you like, telematics. In the programming statement, hidden in the part about Galileův's cosmic research, it has already appeared there, but probably in connection with electronic tolls, I don't know what the coalition meant by that. While dynamic traffic management would significantly increase traffic efficiency and its safety, it would have a significantly environmentally friendly effect and would increase transport capacity by up to 30 per cent for overloaded roads. In the context of e.g. road construction is a maximum of 3% of total investment costs, unlike concrete with estimated to be almost one-third efficiency in terms of safety and, in particular, capacity increases. Unlike the coalition contract in the programme statement, something is already indicating the path the coalition will take. In an electronic toll, I take it the key is to mention that ŘSD will be converted into a state, the form will change into a state enterprise. Support or construction of logistics transport management systems is missing. Czech transport has the prerequisites to become a leader in the application of modern technologies thanks to chemical research and industry. It is an application of new materials, quiet surfaces, new means to increase safety, new information technologies, I mentioned telematics, modern materials and constructions to reduce noise loads etc. etc. There's not a word about that. The chapter is missing, and needs to act quickly, the reaction to the so-called. the third and fourth railway package of the European Union. Maybe it's a bit of a blurry text in the programming statement, I don't feel like being a reader of the ideas of the author of the text. This, if in any way we do not stand up to this boldly and conceptually, threatens the systemic disadvantage of the Czech Railways. The contract does not mention the concept of a lively road, it talks about the liberalisation of the railway as well as the status of the national carrier of České dráhy. Coalition wants to move cargo to the railway, but the Czech railway infrastructure is not ready to meet this objective. There is no accompanying infrastructure, separate rails for freight transport, overtaking tracks, slender switches, change of train configuration, removal of narrow throats for railway transport, tunnel profiles, automation of railways of certain lines, connection to road transport - not even mentioned in the text. For air transport, the concept of air transport in the territory of the Czech Republic needs to be developed. It is necessary to decide on the definition of a basic network of regional airports and their support or non-aid and to define a position on a key investment, a parallel path at the Václav Havel Airport. New European legislation must be applied quickly. I guess we'll see about that. The transport chapter would also look good on cosmonautism, it has already appeared in the programming declaration, and the status of the country in this field. We have an administrative centre for the Galileo project. Conclusion. The chapter lacks specificity, economic feasibility, definition of resources. This is a typical left-wing view, which is probably why there is no mention of the role of private capital, the transformation of some contribution organizations. If the coalition follows this program, a qualitative break in the Czech transport infrastructure, I dare say, it will not happen. The transport infrastructure will continue to be unbuilt, will be underinvested, will suffer from a lack of capital resources. The difference between developed countries and the Czech Republic will continue to deepen, in a better case stagnating. Now, a little wider on the whole program. It's a surfboard because I could be here longer than maybe the authors have put this document together. What I didn't find in the program. It is moving around the world after the financial crisis that began in 2008, but it was already in the Ronaldo Reagan era and, in particular, President Clinton, the certainty of how citizens are to make their savings, where they are to put their products into finance. The world is nodded in this. So protection of the population's savings. Not a word. I can carry on thinking that the authors of the text or coalition expect Brusel to solve this for us and we will join in. Why not, but I think our residents would deserve even more certainty. There's no mention of financial literacy. At this point, I consider this to be a much bigger problem than environmental education. In the chapter on education, not a word about our young generation failing catastrophically recently is a problem for all developed countries, including Britain, Western European countries, the United States, Canada, and others, regarding soft - quality teaching. What we still thought was completely normal is no longer normal. There's what's no longer a mantra - to speak languages. But multinationals, companies asking young people and job seekers: Will you respect the hierarchy in the company? What do you know about financial literacy? Can you act in a collective? Can you communicate with people? That would also have to appear something, for example. A generation with a loss of attention. What it says about education, I dare say that we will continue sending young people to school instead of going there to educate. Between the two world wars, education was set to pressure on average and above average. After 1948 it was decided that we would take care of the average and try to improve below average. The fact that it is not competitive for the next decade of this millennium or century is quite obvious. In all the chapters, see the chapter on finance after last, it is missing, and I would like it to appear there, when half the coalition or a third of the coalition wants to save that the principle of necessity will be applied. It's necessary, we get it, we don't need it, we don't get it. Compare this with Friday's skirmish of about 250 million for advertising activities of PGRLF. [[17.50 hours]] It is a little unclear to me that the Prime Minister is not here to explain to me when the mantra is to abolish the second pillar of pension reform, which I consider - and that was actually a key element in strengthening the principle of the merit of the population, how they work, how much they earn, as far as pensions are concerned. But the ongoing system states that merit will be strengthened. Where do you get it, God knows, and with your performances here, you're fighting it. There are many times that it will be pushed out or re-evaluated by outsourcing. Unfortunately, objectively, I must admit that a number of years of private enterprise is allowed into government or public services - if you want, rather like this, they should not go into public administration at all - so the aim is to save themselves so that the inefficient state sector can be replaced by dynamic private savings. Unfortunately, in our country, outsourcing has become, and this is an objective truth, an instrument of tunneling public finances at state level. It is happening today at regional level, it is happening at the level of large cities and small villages. So please don't spill the baby with the bathtub. What I can't touch and what seems like an incredible amount of phrases is a chapter in the programming statement that concerns science, research, innovation. If I were to write that chapter, I would probably mention it in some way, among other things, when we already have a special vice-president of the government or a minister without a portfolio - I'm sorry, now I don't even know how to split all those functions - so there's not a word about the pressure to get science into the industry. In Israel, who is a leader in this, they even have a minister for how to get science into industry. I don't know exactly what the name of the function is. There is no word on intellectual property protection, but on the contrary, there is mention that we will cooperate even more, especially in the European Community. I'm warning you, because I came out of science, that if something promising is born somewhere, we'll let everyone know, we'll give it to them with documentation, they'll check it out, then we'll often be pagans, and suddenly you're not surprised - it'll pop up on the other side of the world or in the neighbouring country, not so far away. They're doing it, and we put it off as a bad project. Where's the line? As long as we have a minister or Deputy Prime Minister to do it, it should be made clear here. And I remember anytime at any foreign workplace something seemed promising, so we went behind the door. There is completely missing in this part of development, how financial instruments to promote innovation - not a word about start-ups. I don't know what it's all called, it's more the language of the past. I'm sorry. There's nothing about venture capital funds. There's nothing there about us allowing flexible labor. The project is just developing, it turns out it's wrong, these people should go for something more useful, and vice versa. That means there's a huge flexibility of people. Not another word. Not a word about reversible funds. This should be our objective towards the European Union. There's not a word about it in the entire programming document. Unfortunately, there is not a word about this in the chapter concerning the Ministry of Industry and Trade, because there is no way for officials to deal with it, that is the truth. There is no education for qualified failure, or if you want intelligent failure. Those who move in innovation know what I'm talking about. Not a word on the promotion of success, on the discourse of grant systems, on the simplification of funding, on the simplification of reporting. Western democracies, too, are beginning to fall into the fact that scientists are becoming questionnaire responders, surveys, etc. instead of working, and it gets so wide that common sense is no longer there. Awareness and support are lacking. Not a word about starting an idea, the chain known from successful countries: idea, venture capital, product, marketing, marketing, sales of the product, expansion of companies. These are the things that are for innovative technology. Since TOP 09 is a conservative party, I have tried to look at the entire programming statement and look at the whole program document with a little bit of old-fashioned view. I am still taking what happened in the US financial crisis, starting with the rest of the developing world, where and what the world is thinking. The country's primary wealth is in humans, in soil, in technology and in construction. It's not in empty financial products. You know what I'm talking about. So if I take it from this point of view-- I was talking about education, about people. About the soil, I must say there is one of the few visions: increasing the retention of the landscape. Thank you for the anti-erosion measure. Yes, that's two major problems in our territory. I must commend. Technology - confused, chaotic, inconspicuous. The authors obviously don't know what's going on in the world. That's why they're still reporting tonight that they've broken the Karta principle. If they knew anything about cloud systems in computer science, remote administrators, etc., they would probably have written a program statement differently and would have spoken to Karta in the last instance as to transport constructions, not that conceptually it is completely evil. I asked myself if the program we're being presented with today is modern. I could spend hours here comparing myself to the world to tell you clearly that I didn't. Is he interesting? I don't know how for whom. Not for me at all. Does the program have a vision? I think it's something that was dealt with in the '70s world, so it doesn't. Is he funded? Many times here it was said that the financial plan for the next four years was missing. What's not missing? A lot of phrases we've heard even in real socialism. So if I put it in the sexual area, I would say clearly: the program is sexually free. Because I have a big problem. Is this program right-wing, left-wing or whatever? What I can subtract from it is kind of the main ideal axis - regulation, subsidies, control, including population control, of which capital poverty will be the abolition of the second pillar, and there is only one single-way arrow to the country's decline. I originally expected Mr. Sobotka and Mr. Babiš and Mr. Bělobrádek to spend some time in Jičín and then come back and present us with a fairy tale. Why am I mentioning Jičín? Only if someone didn't think of it immediately, Jičín is a town of fairy tales. Unfortunately, I have to say to my disappointment that what we're being presented here isn't even a fairy tale. Unfortunately, the authors of the text, if ever learned from anyone, are more likely from basically those who introduced the current Euro-Atlantic civilization circuit on the path of decline. [[18.00 hours]] So let's go back. Is the program socialist? From the point of view, I mean social democratic. Certainly not by any means compared to Western European social democracies. Is it right-wing? No way. Here I have recently heard in the galleys the beautiful designation of members of the YES as an anoists. So I was wondering if we could just give it a new name for an anism ideology. Because I really don't know here. That's where Babišův's savings are fighting with Sobotkův's handing out. How does this fight end? I'd like him to at least end up neutral. I'm afraid it might not end well at all. Of course, except for some light rubbing off somewhere, so Minister Zaorálek brought me here when he was talking about an increase in entropy. Entropy, as I know, has a technical education, and I'm glad I remembered, is the degree of disorganization of the system. Perhaps the chairman of the Economic Committee would remind me of the name of a physicist who said that entropy of every system was growing. Sorry about my sclerosis. I don't remember. However, if we take a social or an increase in entropy in the social system, I don't think it was about whether the right-wings here - they weren't too right-wing - the coalitions have done anything right or wrong in the past seven years. But the obvious increase in entropy is the lack of authority in society or their suppression. The erosion of elementary values, complex legislation, the Číňan already knew - the more laws, the more thieves. Not enforcing the law. And I'd say rather than a political increase in entropy, so maybe this government's product could be a stochastic phenomenon. Not dramatic, I hope. So I'm sorry that, for example, there's no more ambition in the chapter of culture, but this is how I'd go through everything. I would just say to the public again and stress: There is a right-wing opposition, a TOP 09 and an ODS. There is a leftist opposition to the KSČM. And then there's the opposition halfway. Like Seneca in the Roman Senate, he said something about jerks, half the jerks, and threatened to lose his throat, so he lied out of it by not having half the jerks, but there's also half those who are very intelligent, hardworking and clever. So it gives this semiposition a great opportunity. If this government, and I think we all want it here, at least something's done, they're gonna turn themselves in. If he doesn't, he'll check out. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u125	Thank you. I have four factual points here, so wait in order. The first point of fact is registered by Mr. Vladimír Koníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the text of the resolution in force in the Chamber of Deputies, which you received distributed in this tiny notebook. On page 10, the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the participation of the members of the Government in the meetings of the Chamber of Deputies states that all members of the Chamber of Deputies will attend the opening meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the approval of its agenda and the whole discussion of the agenda item, which is the request of the Government of the Czech Republic for a vote of confidence. Mr President, I would ask you to adjourn the meeting until you bring the situation into line with this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u127	Thank you. I should vote at this point because this is a procedural matter. [[The KSČM benches say no.]] In that case, I will ask the President of the MPs to come to me and discuss how we will proceed. Until then, I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats in the hall again. Let's keep going. Let me introduce you to the conclusions of the House's meeting with the presidents of the MPs. Mr Koníček referred to Resolution No. 31 of the 3rd meeting of 23 July 1996, which at its point I states that all members of the Government will attend the opening meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the approval of its agenda and the whole discussion of the agenda item, which is the request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence. We discussed this matter. I have asked the Government to attend the Chamber of Deputies meetings in numbers of more than one, so it was probably the aim of the request or the efforts and proposals of Mr Koníček. So the government's attendance will certainly improve and I believe that we can continue if the appellant agrees with this. So thank you. I will refer the proceedings to Vice-President Bartošek again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our discussion. Anyway, I've got four registered with actual notes. Next in order is Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u130	I do not wish to argue with the Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies, but there is no more than one. That's two different concepts. Maybe the ministers who are in the restaurants could show up. I think they might. If there's anyone outside the House, we can tolerate it. We didn't point it out, we didn't come up with it, but I think they might be ministers from the party that most protested that there are open restaurants, so they could be here. It's just math for accuracy. There's more than one than all of them. It's just a completely different category.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u131	Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Martin Kolovratník is registered here. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u132	Thank you. Good evening. She's already a little torn, so I'm just gonna pick up the strings for the guys who just got here. The fact points to Mr Laudát, who has so nicely discussed the chapter of the Ministry of Transport. I want to assure my colleague that she was not being prepared with the marketing agency, but she was being prepared by the Minister along with us, and I was also involved in some of the sentences in that chapter. At the same time, I answer to my colleague Stanjur. These roads, which are in priority - R52, R6, R35 and others - really are priorities and need to be worked on. And I don't understand when we're interrogated here, if R35 is meant from Opatovic to Mohelnice. Of course, it's about what's worth and what's not happening. And unfortunately, it didn't happen because of previous governments. I think it's obvious. Perhaps one more sentence. As a rookie, I have been informed that the economic committee, where the financing for transport works, worked in relatively decent and gentlemanly agreement and agreement, where it actually worked, so I believe that the economic committee, which will be meeting next week, will deal with these very things in particular and that we will not have to abstain, and forgive me for the expression, such as in my opinion, with unnecessary speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u133	Thank you. The next one is registered with a factual remark by Mr Ivan Pilný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u134	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, esteemed colleagues, it was in that storm in a glass of water that a bit of criticism of the government's statement, which was summarized in the previous contribution, which was factual. I would like to say that we cannot expect from the programming statement that this is the implementation manual. What has been said here by Mr Laudát is a number of very good factual points, but they cannot be expected in the programming declaration because it is not an implementation plan and it would have 400 pages. I have no doubt that the government will accomplish many of these things and implement them gradually. Second thing. There's a criticism of the programming statement and the word investment goes down. It reminds me a little bit of a statement from a friend of mine, who said, "Which way he's going, this way he's healing." He was talking about a pilsner beer, of course. Therefore, I welcome the contribution of the Minister of Finance Babiš, who first wants to see if there is any bottom in these cups and how it flows out. And the third point. It was also said that some projects and their measurableness could not be made during the four-year period of this government. I say finally. I am not talking about the fact that this period is getting shorter by early elections and by sticking coalitions, and in the end there is already a pre-election struggle, but there is really little time for work, and we should finally start thinking at least in those crucial things in more than four years of government's horizon, not only to be re-elected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u135	Thank you. Another factual point. I have a marked member of Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u136	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to return to Mr Laudát's speech, which haunted the Dawn movement. After all, I can say that in the beginnings of his speeches it's becoming such a habit. Through Mr President, my colleague, there is no greater appreciation for the work of the Dawn movement than your words, and I thank you for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u137	Thank you. We're going back to a proper discussion. Mr. Jiří Koubek is next in line. Mr Grospič will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be a little more rapid. The government is now applying for trust on the basis of the government's programming statement. I liked him just as much as you did. Targets and resources may be different, they may be left-wing, they may be central, which, as a member of the conservative party, may not have to smell completely. But what we should probably agree on is that the objectives and means you want to achieve these goals should be understandable. And if there's anything that really bothers me in the government's programming statement at first sight, it's that it's not very clear. Let me give you one example for all of us. If you want to follow the flow of my thoughts, I refer you to this brochure on page 49, where we have chapter 11.3 Fighting corruption and organized crime. Fighting corruption and organized crime. We all know what we should imagine under this topic, and how a government coalition could imagine this struggle. I was struck by the sixth indent, for better orientation it is the second from the bottom, which let me quote: "Legislatively and organisationally, we will resolve the involvement of volunteers in a wider spectrum of security activities so that neither the employee-volunteer nor his employer can pay for this activity." [[voluntary firefighters]] I don't know if you understood when you read it, but I don't understand it. What do volunteer firefighters have to do with corruption or what volunteer firefighters have to do with organized crime? Do you understand? [[Laughter from the right.]] With a certain exaggeration - am I to understand that volunteer firefighters who are engaged in their community after their work are taking their time, sometimes healthy, unfortunately also lives, and voluntarily organized, are considered organized criminals by this government? I understand that employers who, at the time of the natural disasters, free their employees, who are also members of the voluntary firefighters' association, are required by the municipalities, or even by the municipalities. After the state refund of wages for these employees, that they are corrupters and their demand is corruption? Or should I assume with some exaggeration that the tens of thousands of volunteers organized in voluntary firefighters want to put this government into battle not with the elements, but with corruption or organized crime? I know it's an exaggeration, but this is the government's programming statement that this government is seeking our trust. I'd like somebody from the government to shed some light on this. As mayor, I have two units of volunteer firefighters under me, so I would like to explain to them how I should understand this paragraph. I do not, of course, suspect this government to think of voluntary firefighters as organized criminals. I do not suspect this government that employers who claim a legitimate wage refund would think they were corrupters. And I don't even suspect the government would want to involve these firemen in the fight against organized crime. Although I admit that some of my seasoned guys in my unit are sufficiently actionable and would be looking forward to it very much. I suspect you, the members of the government and the esteemed Prime Minister, of something else entirely. That you're presenting a programming statement to this government that you haven't actually read after yourself. And I'm not the first person here to point that out. And unfortunately, this is about to become a sign of this government. The Minister of Finance and Vice Prime Minister of this government will publicly declare that he will not read the budget before taking up office. Why would I? I mean, it's just a bunch of money that's gonna run this country next year. The Prime Minister of this government will take the public shame of sending a letter to the President with proposals for appointment of the members of the government, a letter that he will sign, but clearly has not read. Why would I? After all, they are only candidates for the positions of ministers. Finally, today the government of the Czech Republic is applying for trust in the Chamber of Deputies, presenting a programme statement on which it agreed but did not read it. I mean, it's just a timetable that he wants to run this country, so why read it? I just have to say with some regret that I lack the clarity. I wouldn't mind targets other than what our party has. It would be perfectly logical. But it bothers me that the government is not seeking support, and it does not rely on the power of the word, on the power of the argument that it does not rely on the power of a convincing and understandable programming statement. The government relies on a majority of 111 votes in this House. This is just a piece of paper for her. One hundred eleven Members and Members. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and how long? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u139	Another party to the debate is Mr Stanislav Grospič and Mrs Jana Černochová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, my fellow Members, I would like to say that, after the debate, after we have received a statement from the government and the unusually officially transmitted text of the coalition treaty, I do not think the government is very happy to begin with. But after all, it's her business, it's the coalition's business. And I understand that it also does not start in a socially easy period, because after seven years of right-wing government, we have 629,000 unemployed, which may actually be more than 800,000, and a large proportion of people are far from reaching the average of what is officially stated in the statistics. And I also understand that a large part of people live in considerable uncertainty and are falling more and more at the poverty line, which is alarming in the Czech Republic, and especially its increase, because if there is ever talk about the border of poor people, including families, being close to one million, the reality can be significantly more complex. And especially if we consider that it also falls to her so-called. Weirs, which also today becomes an official instrument in society and which is also so mediated in relation to the private executor's chamber and the arguments as to whether private execution should continue to remain in the current legal order of the Czech Republic, whether they are replaceable, or whether they can and must return to a plane significantly controlled by the state and should not be the domain of the private chamber. [[18.30 hours]] I see the dimension of the government's statement in that, for example, the executions there are talking about giving priority to official enforcement by means of administrative proceedings and administrative institutions in the area of administrative proceedings. This may be the kind of step forward that appears in the government's programming statement, but I perceive the very negative dimension that may have been created by someone taking a crayon, undermining the coalition contract; perhaps someone, not even in bad intentions, was aware of the assignment of his task, the government statement for the government, and perhaps it is truly trivial that neither the government nor its members nor the coalition was too concerned with reading the government's own statement, because under the pressure created by the President of the Czech Republic, they rushed too much to even use the thirty-day deadline that the Constitution gives to the government to apply for the trust of the Chamber of Deputies. I see here one big dimension, which may stand as a draft stone before this Chamber of Deputies in the upcoming parliamentary term, and that dimension means in the approach to changes in the Constitution of the Czech Republic in connection with the presidential election, with the position of the President of the Republic, with the implementation of the Constitution, for example, in the area of referendum, but also, above all, competence between the Government, the Presidents of Chambers of Parliament, and also, perhaps, between judicial power, but above all, the exercise of the office of President. In this context, I think it is no good to continue to choose the path that the future government coalition has chosen in the case of the Service Act, although I perceive the pressure of the Czech President that he was led by the idea of a pro-European one and wanted to achieve that this law will return as quickly as possible to the House of Deputies after it has been dissolved, and it will become a carrier thread that will be personified by a certain faith that will move us towards the EU, but I think that the path that has been chosen is significantly unfortunate when the Service Act bears the faith of the amendments of one of the government parties and is expected to automatically make a comprehensive amendment to the proposed amendment, which will already have a hall of discussion in the Government of the Czech Republic. These are the moments that have been criticized so many times in right-wing governments in the past seven years, which have been criticized so many times in the level of government party policy and have been criticized from the ranks of social democracy. At this point in time, I think that social democracy might not have to submit to some other subjects, whether KDU-ČSL or the YES movement, in order to form a government, the Presidency of this government. After all, the practical dimension of this submission is also seen in the approach to church restitution. Promises are the past, commitments to citizens are a deep past, and reality is pragmatically different. No one will achieve changes to the property settlement law with churches and religious societies because it is not a major issue in terms of one entity that builds a government coalition. For example, today's interview in the Lidové noviny with one of the representatives of the Catholic Church, who is in charge of property management in southern Bohemia, shows a trivial impact on a society that will deepen its government's obligations. Churches, especially the Roman Catholic Church, will continue to escalate their aggression in relation to potential property claims against the Czech state, and the question will not sound like that in the future if the Czech state has to do it, but how much the Czech state can be sovereign about what other organizations, other state bodies, such as the Vatican religious state, will dictate to it from the point of view of the Roman Catholic Church's policy, and I think that is not a good dimension for the Czech state. I would like to say that promises are also broken with government commitments in other areas, for example in relation to the North Atlantic Alliance and our membership of various foreign missions. These are all serious reasons for making, despite the skilfully and generally formulated promises, a number of hopes that can inspire government statements and form a government coalition in the face of seven years of the right-wing government in the Czech Republic, but on the other hand, it may be very difficult to break up with expectations. That is why I cannot express my confidence in this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u141	Thank you. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg entered into the discussion with priority. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u142	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, I am only so late to take the floor because I have noted that foreign policy is in last place in the government programme and it is also contained only in the half-page of this small book, from which I derive from what importance this government attaches to foreign policy, so I said to myself, so I will do the same. [[shows]] However, even in this short paragraph there are several interesting places. It begins with the sentence: The Czech Government is primarily responsible for foreign policy. So I would like to know who is secondarily, who is terciárně responsible for foreign policy of the Czech Republic. Perhaps it would be good to add a small list of all those who will be responsible for Czech foreign policy in the future, so that we poor opposition Members know who they can ask. Two. Since 1990, since President Václav Havel, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jiří Dienstbier, the best tradition of Czech foreign policy has been the fight for human rights everywhere. We have defended this position against rich and poor states, against powerful and less important states. Therefore, I was wondering what it would say about human rights in this program: "We will support respect for human rights in the world. " It's nice of us to support it, not to suppress it. "We will place special emphasis on respect for individuals." I would please like to know the definition of respect for individuals in human rights in the world, what this sentence means, what respect for individuals means. Then they are only mentioned so called. secondary human rights such as economic, environment and social rights. These are all important things, but first and foremost, primary human rights. There is the issue of suppressed minorities around the world, the suppression of women, etc. I would very much like to have a very wide-ranging list of human rights here and particularly the emphasis on the primary human rights that we should support. [[18.40 hours]] We will be active in development policy. Everything that costs in development policy. We're active for the long term. I would like to know from the government whether a larger amount of development aid will be paid in the next budget. We must say that we are long overdue for what we have agreed ourselves, what should be the share of the development aid budget. Perhaps now that the economy is recovering, it would be possible to raise this percentage again by at least a few mile. I very much welcome, and I would like to commend this government when it does, if the law on foreign service comes. It's a long-term law. Foreign service cannot be fully included in the General Service Act according to its needs. If this had succeeded, this government would have done a good thing. "We undertake to support the efforts of the international community to prevent armed conflicts and to address issues primarily by peaceful means on the basis of international law." That's kind of a general sentence. I hope that we will not support a policy that is contrary to international law and that we will not, above all, support the issue by military means. Therefore, I would say that it would be good if the foreign policy programme were a little more comprehensive, a little more precise and a little more emphatic on the independent role of Czech foreign policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u143	Thank you. In addition, Mr Zaorálek, Minister for Foreign Affairs, is registered with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u144	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. I would just like to say that I admit one thing - that I was at the last meeting of the government that dealt with the programming statement, some colleagues being quite critical of the fact that the foreign policy area, when added to the European one, is disproportionately large in the programming statement. So as much as it was said that foreign policy had little space there, I had to defend that the space that is there for European and foreign policy is such that it dominates as if in terms of the size of the whole text. So what I'm saying is that the dispute is more complicated. And I draw attention to the fact that European policy is actually there in a rather large chapter and that there is not only the foreign policy that you have been talking about, which deals with those things that are outside Europe. So I stand by the formula that I consciously put there, and that is that the government, as a whole, is responsible for the state's foreign policy. And I put that on purpose. It is actually a hint that President Klaus, once Prime Minister, once foreign minister, spoke here in the past in the Czech Republic, and by coincidence everyone said otherwise. So it's really a reaction to what the state looked like - that the views were diverse and that, of course, if a country like the Czech Republic with ten million inhabitants speaks with three votes, it becomes uninteresting and actually insignificant over time. That's why I wanted the wording that the government is responsible as a whole, and no one can make excuses for the other, or it can't be that one speaks for himself and the other. So I'm explaining the point of the wording that I'm not getting rid of the fact that, of course, the State Department has a crucial role to play in the formulation of the concept of foreign policy. It's definitely not a dodge. But at the same time, I want to make it clear that the government must have one vote. And when it comes to the problem that is being solved in the world, in Europe, the Czech Republic must have one opinion. And the whole government as a whole is responsible for that. That's what I'm saying. At the same time, I have to argue a little bit again, which in life is that we don't have the same opinions. I simply take the understanding of human rights in a broader sense extremely seriously. Let me give you an example so it's not just an academic debate. In this House, I met with Chinese Prime Minister Wen Pae- and even half of the interview was about human rights, because the interview began by telling him that if we want to trade China - Europe, China - the Czech Republic, it is not possible for us to have different standards to work, to carry out work, to abuse the work of children, to do the work under absolutely impossible safety conditions - let's take work in mines and the like, with life and enormous trauma. That it is not possible to accept that Chinese products have such an advantage by the fact that there is no protection of those working there is no elemental safety, that this is happening in a poor environment, and that therefore China would send us very cheap products that are given precisely because they do not respect the basic rules of hygiene, safety at work, that they do not comply with basic standards from an environmental point of view. It's really a debate about people's rights. And would anyone dare say that these rights are something less significant? Do you understand? Rights that actually mean blackmailing people. That's exactly what Marx wrote about 150 years ago, that it's just treating people like material. These are not less important human rights. And of course I agree with you that the rights of expression, the right of assembly etc. they are an equally important part. But I cannot agree that the debate on social rights, the debate on the environment, the fundamental principles that unfortunately are very serious problems in these countries that shorten people's lives - and what can be more fundamental? So I insist that extending the issue of human rights is a matter that I would insist on. I just can't hierarch it so much that these are less significant rights. And I don't even think that anyone has to force me to make them a standard part in this broader sense, because I really can't imagine trade with a country that doesn't take these things seriously, because then we're exposed to competition that we can't almost face. It's exactly the way to raise the issue in the debates. This shows that it is not possible to live together, to trade together, and at the same time to be indifferent to these standards. That's what I wanted to respond to. More money for development policy. I don't mean to be so unpleasant, but you, Minister, know that at the time you were a minister, the Ministry's budget fell in a rather radical way. You fired 350 employees in diplomacy and led to the budget falling by about 30 to 40 percent. That means when you say we're supposed to give a bigger amount to development aid today - well, where to take and not steal? Or where to take, you understand when you don't find hair on your hand. So, of course, I would also like a more massive participation of the Czech Republic, just to find the money for it. That, of course, is a problem, and that will be a problem. Otherwise, thank you for your comments and I am glad that we can have such a specific debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u145	Thank you. President Schwarzenberg, with priority rights. Then perhaps a proper application by Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u146	Perhaps just to clarify. I do not question the least social rights. Only historical experience teaches us that you will never get social and other rights without those fundamental rights. There is no freedom of speech, there is no freedom of assembly, so you cannot even arrange a strike to enforce your social rights. So social rights are the result of the priority rights, not that there is competition, which is important. But one is the assumption of the other. I'd like to underline that. When I asked about the wording in the first sentence, the wording rather suggests that there are other responsible sources of foreign policy outside the government. That the government is responsible, there can be no doubt about it, that's what the Constitution says. But as it is formulated here, it suggests that there are other sources. And that would be worth talking about one day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u147	Thank you. Mrs Černochová has the floor now. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the government's programming statement, which is asking for trust today, is everything but a program. Why? Because he doesn't say anything. It doesn't say anything concrete, it doesn't say anything measurable, it doesn't say anything valuable and it's a document that doesn't contain any terms or specific tasks. The programme statement asks questions instead of answering questions and proposing solutions. So it's time to ask questions, too. [[18.50 hours]] The Prime Minister will try to show us how a well-functioning state will ensure a return to socialism. Because experts don't agree whether it's Mr. Babiš's government or Mr. Sobotka, and with governments it's customary that they have a socialist character, let's call it a socialist government. This government will increase social transfers and spending in all areas, whatever the cost. Support of all kinds will increase, as will the salaries of all, health fees will be abolished, and decent state pensions will be for everyone. But how can we believe these words when developments in most European countries are going in a completely opposite direction? To make people more responsible for their health, old age, and themselves in general. Moreover, it is quite untrustworthy that no one will miss the cancellation of the charges and their outage. For example, a patient doesn't recognize billions of hospital income losses. Try any hospital director today, Prime Minister, and ask him how they see it. Your predecessor, Prime Minister Špidla, has already claimed that resources are. But he didn't tell us exactly where and you're following in his footsteps. You promise people impossible, food starting and health services are over. Nothing gets worse in hospitals. Doctors' salaries will even increase, and they will not even pay higher taxes. Everyone will be satisfied. Just a socialist paradise in a country where tomorrow means yesterday. We have already discussed the gender-balanced programming statement. Now allow me a slightly different language window, in the second-to-last priority of the government, to strengthen intelligence control. Mr Koubek has already spoken of the shame of the mistakes made in the appointment of ministers, and I will not repeat it, but this is indeed the pearl of all pearls. Strengthening parliamentary control of intelligence services of the Czech Republic. That's how the paragraph begins. It ends with this sentence, which should perhaps be carved somewhere: The Act will introduce a two-stage control system, so, in addition to the establishment of audit bodies in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, a derived expert audit body consisting of trusted, security-tested and public-respected citizens will also be set up. - Perhaps, if you do not know this, dear future government, Parliament is Parliament, it has two chambers, the upper and lower, and one is called the Chamber of Deputies and one Senate, so the actual sentence that "the law will introduce a two-tier system of control, which is why, in addition to the establishment of audit bodies in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, a derived expert audit body will be established from the Parliament of the Czech Republic," I think we have all been lost in this translation and only this indicates the low quality not only of language regulation, stylistical adjustments, but also of grammatical adjustments. I was also very interested in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior. Police officers and, in fact, all members will raise their salaries and, at the same time, their posts will be reduced by 150 hours. New members will be accepted, who will fight more and happier against all the bad guys. Hooray! Did you read the Home Office's chapter notebook, Prime Minister, or was it too long for you? With you, I have the hope that, at least as former finance minister, you may have read the budget, so you know as well as I do that resources are not here and will not be there. But the socialist government doesn't really have to deal with any of the lessons, maybe it can't deal with them, so it can't be charged with backwards, and the floscule thing about spending only as much money as I have, so it probably doesn't pay here. This programme statement states that you want to examine the issues of effectiveness and performance of the Police of the Czech Republic. However, everything was answered here years ago and regulated in the reform of the Police of the Czech Republic by our government. In addition, this has been passed through the political spectrum and with your votes, and has been communicated with the police and with all relevant experts. I understand that the word reform in people, and I admit that even in me, it's a bit of an aversion. But, for God's sakes, why keep changing something that works and exposing security forces to the uncertainty that one or the other unit is reuniting, or maybe setting up a new one? What, then, Prime Minister, do you want to achieve more efficiency with the Police of the Czech Republic? Seventy-seven secretariats of the Police of the Czech Republic, with everything, I mean from vehicles to secretaries, were replaced by 14 Regional Directorates years ago. It actually copied the accessories to the regions for which you, as Social Democrats, were very mountainous, and all of this was done for the benefit of the uniformed performance of the service in particular. Thousands of police officers in power. Perhaps even the biggest enemy of right-wing governments must know that it was really happening on our streets, and if you ask me about a specific case, I can tell you that a long and dramatic decline in the number of killed and injured, for example, in traffic accidents, is really tangible evidence that, thanks to the changes in this area, it has changed a lot for the better. However, if you see the future, Prime Minister, in the total centralization of all processes, in a complete denial of subsidiarity and the responsibilities of specific leaders at all lower levels of governance, please tell us and please also tell us who will play the famous leading role in this totally centralised and demotivating non-executive model. I'm sure you don't blame me for asking if your government will follow the budget and budget outlook of Chapter 314 of the Ministry of Interior for the years 2015-2016. I've already talked about it here in the budget approval process. You voted for this budget, as opposed to us, the opposition Members. You ignored our comments, because unfortunately the opposition in your concept of governance is a difficult insect to silence, even if many of your opposition MPs came to me and said I was right. Did you know that next year they will have to be saved in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior about three billion? I therefore ask what areas of the budget of the Police of the Czech Republic or the Fire Rescue Corps will be cut. Perhaps most of you know that the law on local authorities is in force, but I ask why you had such a nice sentence in the government's programming statement that you had to provide them with special education. In the law that applies, I suspect, about eight years old, maybe over eight years old, time flies fast, so, of course, in this special law of education they have secured. You probably misjudged the service law, but it does not concern the officials of the higher local authorities, Prime Minister. I'm very surprised that you don't mention the drug issue in your programming statement at all. I personally consider this to be one of the most serious threats of the present, but okay, I understand that this may not be a subject on a separate paragraph. I just need a quick answer. Repression or prevention. [[19.00 hours]] But what is definitely an important topic that moves today's globalised world, I consider asylum and immigration policy. Where can I read about your plans? Or, Prime Minister, am I to take it that your government has absolutely no opinion of this area, or is it here, so to speak, genre it to reveal it so that it cannot be questioned whether it is politically, Europeanly or otherwise correct, or not? Indeed, I fear that the situation, especially in those European countries that used to be former colonies, is gratified by the immigrant parties, and we will not avoid that in other countries in Europe. In the last few days, we have had a referendum in Switzerland, we know how it turned out - and our government is silent about immigration and asylum policy. Something's wrong, then. But after the Prime Minister's socialist, there's one, the other, sort of the Prime Minister, at the moment just a vice president, not on the beach, behind me, tells me here. And as a successful businessman and billionaire, he can't possibly be suspected... [[He's turning to Vice Prime Minister Babiš.]] I'm flattering you, Minister, right now, so try to let me finish. Thank you. As a successful businessman and billionaire, he may not even be suspected of socialist sentiments and appetites, and there is no doubt that the actual government program, if he wants to keep it, will be based on the limits and limits set by him, the Minister of Finance. I don't want to be hostile, but please don't ever say you'll never read the budget again. You are the Minister of Finance, you are the person who is responsible for this department, and although we all know that not all of us can understand everything - and you have the opportunity, unlike us, to have advisors, we only have assistants - I consider it less polite to have someone publicly declare this. And I think it was useless, and it triggered a whole wave of emotion in this House. I've always shared an opinion on why to invent inventions, why to worry about writing some legislative standards, when some of the other countries have already taken the job and it works for them. I have nothing against our eastern neighbours, but is there really no other country in Europe than Slovakia, which we should take as a model of standard creation? Both heads of government, both Mr Sobotka and Mr Babiš, are quite dazzled by the recipes of Slovak colleagues. The rightness of the Slovak path is highlighted in all aspects of our future life and existence. Maybe at least one of them escaped a pretty substantial fact and didn't ask himself, "Oh, my God, if it's so cool out there, then why are so many Slovák moving in with us? Please, without irony - why? Who do you like in hockey, Mr. Babiš? In my fantasy right now, I'm imagining two passwords from your election billboards underneath me. First password: We provide a well-functioning state. Second password: We want to run the state as a company. By the way, law school's been kicked out of rehearsal when someone said "business" instead of "business." The company is only a business name such as Agrofert. A business as a mass thing is a so-called race. But I guess the word company sounded nice to your writers, or whatever the hell he didn't want could have been in it some sort of Freudianly predestined future development of our country. I'm done. I don't think I'm going to surprise anyone by saying, at the end of my conclusion, that I will not support the socialist government. However, I do not intend to be a Member who would only have a mouthful of destruction, criticism and speech. [[The microphone fell out for a second.]] - Have you disconnected me yet? I can support the non-socialist proposals made by the government coalition when they are meaningful and when, as a government and positional Members, you realize that the opposition is not, Minister, Ministers, Prime Minister, that the opposition is not an enemy of the state or of individual you, but a unit in parliamentarism that wants to say its opinion and sometimes its defence simply convince you that it is better than yours. [[loud applause mainly from the central part of the hall]] And there's nothing wrong with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u149	Thank you. Minister Babiš is now registered with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u150	Colleagues, colleagues, I would react very briefly. I'm not really gonna read the 2013 budget anymore. Don't ask me to do that, 900 pages, it's not possible. 2014, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But I'm actively going to build that 2015. And when I told the Deputys yesterday that I wanted the top 40 expenses of individual ministries, they didn't understand me at all, they didn't know what it was. Every company or business or resort has some costs, and I'd like to see it in detail. Marketing costs, PR agencies, advertising, sponsoring sports and everything. So I'm sure I promise I'll be actively doing the 2015 budget, so I'll be building it with my team, so I'm sure I'll read it too. So I'm sorry that 2014, which nobody actually did, the budget, so we approved it because we had no choice. About immigration. It is not my subject, of course, but surely the Member is right that why so many Slovák are employed in Moravia and why they work in restaurants and in retail and why there are Ukrajinec everywhere in construction companies. This is certainly a big issue with regard to employment. And that would be interesting to actually talk about why that is, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u151	Yes, thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Mrs Soňa Marková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u152	Mr President, dear absent Prime Minister, the honourable incomplete government, ladies and gentlemen. When I came out here this morning to the Chamber of Deputies, I realized I was going to do some special work. I'm gonna go tell someone I trust. The word "trust" is implied by the fact that I'm going to make decisions about trusting someone. When I've been listening to everything that's been going on all day, I've heard a whole bunch of things. Very little was said about trust. I am, of course, aware that the government programme contains a whole range of very interesting and well-sounding things, but this has led me to wonder if the word trust has anything to do with the word credibility. If all that's in there is credible. If the government can make it happen. So if her trust doesn't melt away in the fact that what she promises isn't trustworthy. All my life's activities, professional, managerial, political, have taught me that in every system, the one that is the main is the decisive one. In the case of government, it is the Prime Minister. And that's why I'm going to continue to address the question of whether his person inspires confidence in me so that I can give it to the entire government. Four years ago, I joined politics because I needed to try to change the conditions at Prague City Hall. You may think that I have not been successful, but I have always tried to make politics cleaner, fairer, so as not to forget the ethical dimension of politics. I tried to clear myself of strange political entrepreneurs and backstage players in Prague ODS and I think I managed to do so. [[19.10 hours]] However, if I look at the current government, I must ask myself whether similar people, like puppeteers, are now behind this government coalition, especially when it comes to Prime Minister Sobotka. We should ask who his husband is in the background, who is behind his rise, and who is likely to be behind his fall, as it is in life. In order to make it clear where I am going, I must first return to 1997, where the Social Democrats, or at least some of the representatives of this government party, contributed to the fact that the group around Viktor Koláček took over the majority share of OKD shares for money downstairs. By the way, he came to the board of this company by the will of raiders e.g. then Vice-President of ČSSD Vladislav Schrom. This is the past, which none of you have to care about, not even the police, because the police are interested in another part of the story, the sale of the rest of the share, about 47 percent of 2004, at the time when the current prime minister of this country was a finance minister and was responsible for selling state property. He was also President of the Presidium of the National Property Fund. And today, the situation is that two high officials of the National Property Fund have already been charged with selling their shares in the OKD very cheaply. But they themselves could not do anything without the decision of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Czech Republic. Without a doubt, Bohuslav Sobotka was the one who had the decisive say at that time. Yes, everyone knew at the time that nobody but young, promising and capable Stanislav Gross was the driver of things. But that is not going to help the Prime Minister today. The sale was a suspect from the very beginning. Privatization of OKD is simply one of the most shameful privatization cases in the Czech Republic. Bohuslav Sobotka will in no way get out of her political responsibility. His signature was in the beginning. Therefore, the current Prime Minister must clearly explain his relationship with Prokop, Wagner and partners. [[Humble?]] And especially to Mr Pokorný, who allegedly employed Mr Sobotka as an associate. However, Mr Sobotka prefers not to mention this in his official CV. I publicly ask the Prime Minister to explain his relationship with Mr. Pokorný. This is about Mr Pokorný, who participated in many privatisations and represented future owners of state property. It is a really strange coincidence that Mr Pokorný was involved in privatisations every time his good friends led this country, namely Mr Gross and Sobotka. Prime Minister, explain your relationship with Mr. Pokorný. You must tell us whether Mr Pokorný is a behind-the-scenes player of social democracy. You must also tell us whether you have been employed personally for two years in the Pokorný, Wagner and Partners Law Office. If so, why don't you put it on your official resume. Prime Minister, you must clearly disprove all speculations about the cross-Saturday privatization doorknobs that sparrows are already singing about on the roof. So far, this government looks more like a government of conflict of interest than a government that should be responsible for managing this country. I beg you, Prime Minister, answer my questions so that I can make a proper decision if I express my trust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u153	Next to the debate is Mrs Soňa Marková, Mr Alexander Černý will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u154	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Your Honor. Let me briefly present the opinion of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia on the Government's statement and touch on the area of health. At the beginning of its programming declaration, the government coalition is reporting to the end of its fees. However, when approving the proposal to abolish fees from the KSČM workshop in the context of the debate of House press number 10, the Minister of Health expressed strong opposition to this proposal and the entire government coalition voted against. It seems that the fees so far have been used more as populism for obtaining voters before the elections. At the same time, the government coalition has also made it clear that it will probably not support the KSČM proposals, even if they are and are in line with their programme. Nevertheless, it can be noted that the priorities of the Ministry of Health correspond to certain points of the KSČM programme. Compared to the coalition treaty, there is no longer a sentence on the protection of life from conception to the natural end, which, as a result, denied one of the fundamental human freedoms. It would also mean an effort to change the Czech Republic's attitude towards the issue of abortion and denial of the right of a woman to decide on her body. At the same time, compared to the coalition agreement, the government's programme statement lacks much needed increases in health care salaries, especially in nurses, rescue by Mr. Heger of the devastated Czech spa and bonus programs for prevention. But I understand that the government's programming statement doesn't fit everything. Unfortunately, the government of social democracy, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement does not solve the much needed purchase of health insurance claims, especially VZP. This was even rejected directly by the Minister of Finance. Nor does it refer to the necessary measures to equalise the conditions for all health insurance companies. In the long term, which pays more for the care of its insured persons than other occupational health insurance companies, VZP also pays for unfairly set conditions. In the programme, I completely lack the effort to address for many years the painful problem of developing the concept of long-term care and coordination of social and health services. In this way, there is no obligation to draw up a long-term care law in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs so that health care can finally stop substituting the social system. The new government also, at least according to the submitted government statement, does not remember the realization of the very necessary concept of sanitary service, but also the greater support for primary prevention. It is still true that one crown inserted into prevention means saving three crowns. It is also a pity that the new coalition government does not place great emphasis on beneficial and right-wing governments interrupted the debate of the Ministry of Health with state-of-the-art organizations, trade unions, professional companies and, above all, patient organisations. However, the KSČM welcomes the declared principle of solidarity with healthy people and efforts to create predictable, stable and average costs of the corresponding health care reimbursement system. Here I just lack a clear view of expensive treatment, e.g. biological or proton. Quite rightly, there is talk of the great pain of years past, i.e. the need to introduce the principle of equal care equal remuneration. Regular valorisation of payments for state insured persons will certainly contribute to the stabilisation of the public health insurance system and will return the State's responsibility for the health sector, which is given by the Constitution of the Czech Republic. [[19.20 hours]] However, I consider the notified reduction in the VAT rate only to medicines to be absolutely inadequate and irresponsible to the system. It is a serious mistake to not solve the VAT rate itself. In health care, any increase in VAT by one percentage point means roughly minus 4 billion. CZK for the public health insurance system and thus the increase resulted in the tunneling of the public health insurance system by the state budget. One health insurance company with consistent control of the flow of public money would certainly contribute to the savings of public finances. I am a little concerned about the announced significant savings of the system, especially in the cost of medicines and medical devices, because there is no more concrete proposal on how to achieve this. Will this take the form of a reduction in payments, or even the exclusion of payments from public health insurance, as has been done in the recent past? Further increase in the participation of patients is totally unacceptable for the Czech Social Fund. I consider it a problematic point concerning a transparent and controllable system for the management of public funds through the compulsory publication of health insurance contracts with care providers and public hospitals contracts with its suppliers. I don't know what they mean by public hospitals. After all, most hospitals in the regions are business companies and some have private owners. So will this only apply to faculty hospitals? Non-renewing so-called The regulatory fee for hospitalization and cancellation of the prescription fee and doctor's is certainly a step in the right direction, but not leaving the charge on the alert primarily because of increasing much more expensive medical emergency services trips. But why does it have to wait until 2015, and why are income cuts to be offset only from the state budget? It is here that I lack important measures in the form of permanent cancellation - permanent cancellation - of the ceiling on premiums for the richest income proposed and still proposed by the KSČM. The Government also declares that it will consistently separate the ownership of health insurance companies and health establishments and prevent them from being controlled or controlled by a third party. Just reminding you that owning health care facilities and a health insurance company is prohibited by law, but for example. in the case of one private health insurance company, this has not been respected in the past and right-wing governments have ignored this. I am glad that the state supervision of health insurance flows and the functioning of insurance companies should be strengthened, but the important thing is how. Will this be done by creating a new office, or will it just come as a task of the SAO? And wouldn't it be better to control only one insurance company, as I mentioned before, as KSČM has proposed since 2005? A separate chapter is the state control over the implementation of the DRG and the delegation of responsibility to the Ministry of Health. However, the DRG payment system is not self-saving, see experience from Germany, Austria and other comparable countries. It is necessary to complete the payment system as such, e.g. in the field of long-term and health care. The strengthening of the effectiveness of the State Institute for Drug Control, its pharmaceutical policies and pricing in order to ensure better accessibility for citizens can also be welcomed. But it's missing, for example. There's a clear ban on drug reporting. To the Act on Nonprofit Hospitals, I just want to remind the new government coalition that this law can only be called. dust off. The proposal of the KSČM and social democracy has already been approved once, but the will of the right-wing government coalition has not been fulfilled and subsequently even abolished in the last parliamentary term. Finally, the objectives and programme priorities in the field of health are, in principle, acceptable from the perspective of KSČM and the only small ones, in quotation marks, the problem will be their concrete fulfilment so as to preserve the fundamental right of citizens of the Czech Republic to the quality of the necessary health care regardless of the tenacity or thinness of their own wallet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u155	The next envoy is Mr Alexander Černý, and Mrs Kateřina Konečná will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u156	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing paragraph 60, which is called the Request of the Government of the Czech Republic for a voice of confidence, but we are all talking about this 50-page notebook, where three fifths are the coalition treaty and two fifths of the government's programming statement. No one is forcing us to talk about the government's programming statement, it's a habit, a saying that the government is presenting something, although I don't think that all customs must always be followed. Perhaps today would be better if there was no such thing. But it's already done, we've got the programming statement in front of us, so we've got no choice but to comment on it at least a little bit. I would like to make a few comments on the address of the Ministry of Defence. It is a little bit, I would say, characteristic of this resort, that at a time when we almost unanimously elected our colleague Mr. Hamáček as President of the House, and therefore logically he could no longer become Minister of Defence, for which he had been preparing for a long time, as if the coalition partners had lost interest in the resort. It was quite obvious, although it's strange, because the force ministries are usually at the center of attention in coalition negotiations, so the defense department as if it had stayed somewhere at the end and the interest just wasn't. By treating this resort, I wondered if it was just because the hot demand for the Minister of Defence was a different function and therefore not available, or if there was anything else involved. The Defense Resort doesn't have the best reputation, it's certainly familiar to everyone. Nobody wanted it because they realize that everything that should be dealt with there will require a huge commitment. In addition, this resort was quite unlucky for some ministers who were in the past at its head, i.e. in the recent past at its head. I won't remember everyone, but just remember, for example. to Mr. Exminister Tvrdík, who came up with a project of several Ms and wanted an army smaller, then even smaller, and his subsequent colleagues made it to such perfection that today we have the army practically least to the population within the North Atlantic Alliance, it may not be possible anymore. Another minister, or minister, if you want me to replace it, so that my colleagues don't accuse me of not respecting the gender approach, I don't dare say how well she sang, but I do know that she is, for example. Rather, it avoided the defence committee's negotiations. And as it ended, we're probably all pretty much still in our minds. Another minister, for a change from ODS - that is to say, it doesn't matter what the previous party minister was from - Mr Barták, he showed such a great business talent until it ended again as it ended. [[19.30 hours]] But those ministers had something in common. To this day, I remember almost everyone starting with this counter saying, "We have to make order at the resort." We need to replace the missing bottom that we've been talking about today with something. And we need to start saving up. We have to stop the resort from stealing so badly. Well, things haven't been going so well so far, actually. Until recently. And if you add that neither the hand of the Lord, i.e. the budget of the Czech Republic has been very generous in recent years, this has created some kind of internal loss, internal deficit, and it doesn't matter if it's below 100 billion or over 100 billion, well, it's just a huge loss that's going to be very hard to replace. The military lost some of their powers because of it. With the constant reduction and reduction of its own abilities, it was in the situation that, in the legislation that we had tabled at this meeting and Minister Stropnický withdrew it, as far as I know, the wording of the "army" type appeared in the explanatory reports several times, which is its primary mission. Now, then, about the government's programming statement. I understand that in such a small dimension half the page cannot be expressed as priorities, it cannot be expressed as the most important. But I was really a little surprised when I read: Resort Ministry of Defence, page 15: The primary task of the government is to carry out an overall analysis of the management, audit of individual agendas. - I point out that several ministers have come across audits and doing good in the resorts pretty hard and they haven't turned out well. I'll keep my fingers crossed for the Minister, so he doesn't get in the way of those who have failed in this effort. But to formulate this as the primary task of government in this department doesn't seem very happy to me. I am convinced that the primary task of the government should be to increase the defence of the Army of the Czech Republic, to strengthen its defence. We have had several years in the literature, which many refer to as "the process of afghanization," when we built an army in such a way as to be able to meet the obligations within the Alliance, however, by personnel, material or technical means, to be able to do enough to defend itself. The submitted programming declaration shall mention these matters on a conditional basis. That is, if possible, we will develop. If possible, we'll finance it. And that's really not what I expected from the programming statement when it already is. So I was hoping that there would be a much bigger impact on these points. In this context, I have no choice but to commend the programming declaration for one very specific sentence, namely that it ensures that it ensures the defence of the Czech airspace by its own means. Excellent. Airspace isn't exactly all-hugging, but at least something. I would just like to point out that ensuring the defence of airspace does not just solve the Gripen problem. It is a much more complex problem and it will be extremely difficult financially in some areas. Again, I'm not talking about the Gripens right now. However, I thank at least for this sentence in the programming statement. What brought me back to the ground was the last sentence, which was not yet in the original version from the middle of last week, namely that two basic conceptual materials will be presented - Long-term prospects for defense by 2030 and other conceptual materials, and this is the concept of the construction of the Army of the Czech Republic. The army of the Czech Republic has been through a lot of these concepts. Basically, every concept meant another, I'd say, devastation of the military's capabilities. I will be able to pray for these concepts to be the opposite. In order to really manage to start what the army urgently needs, this is long-term planning, stability in the resort. But most importantly, in order for the current government to try to do what the previous criminally neglected ones have done, that is, to change the ratio that has devoted our action outwards towards what was being given to ensure defense. I'm gonna be rooting for the minister in his attempt to clear up the resort. I will support him if he strengthens the defence of the Czech Republic. That's not to say he's supposed to give up on other areas, that's for sure. I'd almost say yes, but that's not possible, so I'm saying good, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's already occupied, the shortcut or the verbal phrase can't be used like that anymore. I have no choice but to say that it would be better if the programming declaration were not, but when it is, I look forward to the fact that at least what is contained in it will be fulfilled. And we will try to keep an eye on any of your promises as opposition leaders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u157	The next enrollment is Mrs Kateřina Konečná. Mr Jan zahradník will be ready. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, let me begin by saying: Nothing changes. And this government follows up on a number of its predecessors. At the beginning of its programming statement, the government bombastically stated that it would lead the Czech Republic on the basis of a socially and environmentally oriented market economy, but a few lines below among the main priorities of the government did not mention anything about the environment. The current government thus shows only one thing that follows in the footsteps of its predecessors, and that was and unfortunately is ignoring the improvement of the environment at least among the main priorities of the government. Now let's take the programme statement in the section where the Ministry of Environment's specific Resort priorities are. Of course, the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act is among the restorative priorities of the new government period. There is nothing else left for the government, because the European Commission is threatening us with an infringement that can only end by stopping the use of European funds. So this must have been in the programming statement, no matter who sits behind me right now. Above all, steps must be taken very quickly to implement the promised measure. Sometimes it can take three or four years to prepare the law, and we don't really have them as a republic. Also, New Green Savings is certainly one of the government's priorities. But it's nothing new and undiscovered. Previous environmental ministers also had this in the program. Here I am rather curious about how the new administration of the Ministry will cope with the administration of the program, because it was its greatest weakness in the years past. Likewise, if the government is talking about simplifying administrative demands for the Operational Programme Environment, perhaps only so much can be said that, after experience from the past, it might be much more useful here as a first step to ensure that letters addressed by the State Environmental Fund or the Ministry of the Environment do not go after each other for up to three months and that proposals for new challenges from the Operational Programme Environment do not lie on the tables of environmental representatives or ministers for six months or more. [[19.40 hours]] I am glad that the government considers the protection of surface waters and water retention in the landscape and, above all, soil protection to be its priority over a long period of time. I also hope that it will no longer allow any changes in the Law on the Agricultural Soil Fund and that perhaps the time of destruction and stopping fertile land and the wasteful treatment of water resources will finally end. But what disappoints me the most? It is a priority point of the Ministry of Environment on the Waste Act. Minister, through the President, do you really mean that you will only submit to the Government an amendment to the Waste Act in mid-2016, as stated in the programme statement? So not the new law that we've been waiting for for almost eight years, a new law that should regulate the entire waste management area. Although the problem of over-loading is very important in the programming statement, it is certainly not the only one that needs to be addressed by the new law. Moreover, what to believe is what I want to say, at a time when you promised me ten days ago that you would take away the new Waste Act this year and even present it to us by the end of December and in paragrafo. Is there more of a minister's word or a programming statement? And what is there to believe when you sign something that, as minister responsible for this resort, you say in a different way on almost the same day? In fact, if you put a new waste management plan on the board of the Ministry of the Environment's priorities, and you should do that quickly, because your last two predecessors bailed out and only extended the validity of the previous plan, you would know that many waste processing segments have serious problems, and without the new Waste Act, there is no solution. By the way, waste legislation is under great criticism of the European Commission, which calls for an accelerated conceptual legislative change, otherwise we will see only a modest amount of money from the European Union for waste management. And new waste legislation is also desperately needed by municipalities, cities and regions to be able to prepare for new, already approved measures from the European Union. The only way I want to summarize this area is that in the area of waste management we are not even in the 12th hour, but a few minutes after it, and even if it is not your fault, every minute of waiting for your ministry will mean only trouble for Czech citizens and companies, and the loss of considerable funds, regardless of further environmental damage. And now on environmental issues which, in my opinion, are completely lacking in the government's programming statement. Firstly, it is the legislation of the Šumava Act. You just can't escape from the contradiction that exists in Sumava between environmental activists seeking untouched nature and people living in Sumava who want to live and exploit the surrounding nature. This contradiction must be resolved and I am surprised that it is not in government priorities, especially when we are already hearing from your mouth the plan to set up a new, fifth national park. Nothing against it, but in a situation where you, Minister, have an unsolved situation in Šumava, where the National Park of Krkonoše and Podyjí are not even anchored by their own law, in this case, one might say, perhaps it was appropriate to think about the whole concept of national parks and protected areas and not only to open up the topics that you are going to announce. As in the programme statement, there is no word in the coalition agreement about what the state will do and how your ministry will resolve compensation for the damage caused by the management of protected areas. And that we're talking in hundreds of millions, we both know that, and yet this long-term problem -- neither the sight nor the hearing. The concept and strategy of conservation of nature and landscape simply avoided the programming declaration, although similar topic can be found in the coalition contract, but it is a shame. Furthermore, the programme declaration does not mention the long-term pain of the Ministry, namely quality control of compliance with environmental regulations through the Czech Environmental Inspection. This institution is long-term underfunded and its results also appear to be the result. Anyone who means it seriously and conceptually with the protection of the environment must concentrate on improving its functioning and improving and personnel strengthening all the audit institutions that your ministry has in its sense. Without interest, there is no mimosity of the program declaration and coalition contract. It would be logical to expect a more general coalition contract to be developed in more detail in the programming declaration, but that is not the case in this case. And it would be interesting to know what's superior to what. For example, whether or not the government has urban bypasses in its priorities, because it is in the coalition contract, but it is no longer in the programming declaration, although the construction of motorways is explicitly listed in the programming declaration. There is no need to stress that city bypasses are much more important than kilometers of new motorways for the environment. Many of these specific commitments fell out of the programming declaration. It seems to me that the government has been a little frightened of what it has committed itself to in the coalition agreement. Overall, I am impressed by the sudden text, where no one cared deeply about the complexity of the problem. This is surprising when the government was appointed so late and the government coalition was known almost since the elections and therefore had a lot of time to prepare the text. This means, perhaps, that the contradictions in the government coalition are very deep, and these contradictions do not allow us to describe many priorities in detail. Rather, it seems to be a government that will put out only the essentials, and will be very reluctant to pursue conceptual plans. Dear government, your resolutions are vague and often contradict each other. There's no way to give trust to someone who doesn't have an idea of what he's gonna do with it based on what he's writing. We have experienced many beautiful declarations and at least your programming statement shows that you have no idea how to implement them. Under normal circumstances, we would like to say back to the process, unfortunately, that is not possible here today. Therefore, since the idea may have been good, for now the implementation in five, you will hear from me today: I am abstaining.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u159	Thank you, ma'am. Please see Mr. Jan Zahradník's speaker's counter. Please prepare Mr. Jiří Pospíšil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u160	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express myself in a similar way to Mrs Konečná on the chapter which talks about the environment in the Government's programming declaration. As an old teacher, I found some mistakes there, most of which have already been brought to the attention here. One of them, very important for us South Bohemia, was mentioned by colleague František Laudát - leaving the R3 expressway off the priority list is merely an oversight, because, as we well know, the D3 motorway without this connection to our Austrian neighbours is largely meaningless. I found another logical contradiction there, and I think it's very dangerous. In the chapter of the Ministry of Transport it appears as the first priority of the processing and presentation of the Act on Line constructions. This is a very noble intention and this instrument can be very effective. Of course, it can help with problems in the purchase of land, but it should also help a number of environmental activists to block significant line constructions. On the other hand, in the environmental chapter, I find it my last priority to maintain the level of legislative rights of civil activities relating to the environment. It seems to me that this is even a direct contradiction. However, I would like to mention another very important phenomenon. The President here was talking about visions for the future, and I would like to comment perhaps on something I would call a responsibility that comes from the past. The Government of the Czech Republic, on 20 March 1991 by its regulation, declared Šumava National Park and introduced into its wine such a mission as I would like to quote: "The mission of the National Park is to preserve and improve its natural environment, in particular the protection or restoration of self-management functions of natural systems, strict protection of wild fauna and flora, the preservation of the typical landscape appearance, the fulfilment of scientific and educational objectives, as well as the use of the national park's territory for tourism and recreation of the uninhibiting environment." [[19.50 hours]] When we look at today's Sumava, that after Kyrill is almost 20,000 acres of dry land, it is a dry forest eaten by a crust, so we see that at least one of those missions, and the preservation of the typical appearance of the landscape, has been violated. Šumava was perceived by our ancestors as green - and now we see it as gray. I think the government should take over this founding power and this founding function. As a representative of regional self-government, I have repeatedly called on the government to address the issue of the National Park of Sumava in the choir, not only the environmental minister, but also the ministers of others, the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Local Development, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because the liar from the National Park of Šumava flies to our neighbors and does damage to them in the forest, etc. Unfortunately, I have never succeeded, and I therefore allow myself to take advantage of this position and appeal to this government to deal with the Šumava National Park. That is why, like Mrs Dejmán, I am bothered by the fact that there is nothing in the programming declaration not only about the national park but also about other protected areas. That's just what's missing. It can be explained by the government's view of this as a marginal problem. It's 70,000 acres, including 100,000 acres of CHKO. It's not that big of a territory. Or it is also possible that the government does not want to assume this responsibility, that it wants to entrust it to the Minister. I think she's violating her responsibility because she set it up a long time ago by a government order. Or it is also possible that he wants to address this situation with a new instrument and that is the presentation of the National Park Act. Here it must be said that from the proposals that were gradually milked, to which the whole large group of all who worked on it came, the last proposal has significant support for the Šumava municipalities, all Šumava visitors, as well as scientific experts from environmental and forestry protection. I think the Minister of the Environment is in a rather difficult situation because he was first approached by environmental activists and presented his views. It's very hard to resist their intense pressure. And I think that, however you may not expect, ladies and gentlemen, that the point of my speech will be to express my confidence to the government, that is certainly not going to be the case, so let me nevertheless, Madam President, by your means, offer to the Minister of the Environment on this matter, which is so important to all of us who like the green Šumava, who do not agree with the crazy gigantic experiment of transforming its general part into a wilderness, so that I may offer my cooperation to you, Minister through Madam President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You can turn to the members of the government directly. I ask for the microphone of Mr Jiří Pospíšil, who is enrolled in the debate, and I ask that Mrs Markéta Adamová prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u162	Thank you very much. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also make a few comments on the ongoing debate on the government statement. In principle, we have been debating for almost half a day, and I will not repeat the general political objections to this government and the government's statement. I agree with what my colleagues from the opposition right have said here that this government is difficult to deliver on the promises contained in this document. In short, it is not possible to fulfill the promises contained in the government statement - not to raise taxes and not to raise government debt at the same time. That is simply the basic thing, the fundamental factor that is being blamed for today's debate. It is also not possible to close your eyes to the fact that one of the key members of the government is in an extraordinary conflict of interest, and this will probably be throughout the duration of their duties. In order to contribute something to this debate, something that has not been said so far, I will focus my speech on one specific chapter, which I think should also be debated here, because not only is the economy a person alive, but also law and justice is one of the key phenomena of a functional society, and without a functional justice and democratic rule, a prosperous society cannot be built. Therefore, allow me to focus on a chapter in my short speech, chapter 3.11, which contains the promises of this government in relation to justice and bears the name of the Ministry of Justice. Unfortunately, the Minister of Justice is not here, but I hope that he will read my speech in the tapestry and maybe some of my views and views, and especially in the second part of my advice in the performance of his duties. Unfortunately, the chapter, which is called the Ministry of Justice, is very short. It's half a page and contains six very general thesis. In principle, the overall problem of government declaration can be demonstrated on this one chapter: a government statement very general, there are no concrete proposals for solutions. Thus, it is difficult to argue with a general, let's say, provision, with a general thesis which is rather misleading in nature. We all want to shorten the length of the trial. The debate, however, is what concrete means we will achieve this. And that's the problem I see here. In short, and well the text of the government statement in relation to this department, to the Ministry of Justice, is very general. So let me first give a brief comment on what is in the material, to justice, and then a few sentences that are not there, but in my subjective opinion, the opinion of the person who was responsible for the Justice Department in two governments should be or at least should be. So it's gonna be some kind of advice and recommendation. Chapter 3.11 begins with a paragraph relating to executors. It's fashionable today. It's a common thing today. Everyone criticizes the bailiffs. I think it's a good thing if this government takes care of the bailiffs. However, it would be nice for her to really be responsible for this, that is, to really assess what the current legislation of law, which governs the position and powers of the executors, and that we do not fight only populistly against the executioners in an effort to gain political points, and the result was not to reduce the enforcement of the law in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way I want to defend the bailiffs here. There are a number of problems associated with them. But a few years ago, under the rule of social democracy in 2001, they did not come at random. They were created because the enforcement of law in this country was very low. Therefore, it is necessary to cultivate the environment of the executors, to cultivate legislation that governs their powers and powers, but I would consider their interference to be a matter that would have avenged this country in the long term. The government writes directly - I quote: "The government will strengthen supervision of the executors' activities. " Here I would recommend that the Department of State Supervision, which worked at the Ministry of Justice under the ODS, be renewed and renewed, and in our time we have filed a number of disciplinary actions against executors. Unfortunately, this field has not worked in the last year, and it is therefore necessary, in my view, to look at who and in what form will file the disciplinary action against the bailiffs again. The government in its material at point two - I will comment very briefly on the six points - talks about the need to analyse the Civil Code. I agree with that, and I think it is very good that the government sees this as one of the important points in the area of justice, that we will not see that the Civil Code here on its knees will be adjusted, improved and corrected through various parliamentary amendments. [[20.00 hours]] This would lead to the fact that such a complex law, which has over 3,000 paragraphs, would be dysfunctional and problems, which, of course, logically appear in it, would be difficult to solve. It would be good if, in the debate over the amendments to the Civil Code, which must have a systemic character and be implemented at a certain distance from the moment of effectiveness, if there was a serious debate on this matter on the Constitutional Legal Committee, so that the opposition could also comment on the proposal. The government says in its point three in the area of the Ministry of Justice that it will prepare and enforce a new civil court order, through which it will achieve a significant acceleration of litigation while guaranteeing the right to a fair trial. I think that's the right idea to prepare a new civil court order. After all, we wanted to enforce a new criminal code and a new civil code and we need to move forward with the reform of procedural law. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I am responsible for saying that it is an expression of naivety and ignorance to state that the new civil court order itself - I quote - will significantly accelerate litigation. It's just a beautiful media claim that doesn't apply. And I say this as a person who was present at the civil law experts' debate, when they talked about how civil law should be regulated in this country. Yes, a new civil court order is needed, it can lead to some efficiency in civil proceedings, but please don't expect miracles from that. If we speed up the civil proceedings significantly, it will be at the expense of a fair trial. This is something that is very important and should be said here. I believe that, given that the number of cases is not falling to us, especially in the field of civil court proceedings, and the only way to speed up the long-term judicial proceedings is to increase the number of reporters, higher judicial officials and assistants of judges. This is today's biggest problem of justice - a small number of this administrative apparatus and its very low financial value. The government continues to talk about the new Code of Criminal Procedure. This can also generally be agreed with. Unfortunately, we don't know what he's gonna look like. At the same time, the government notes that it will strengthen protection and improve the progress of compensation for victims of crime. Here I want to point out that we have adopted a completely new law on victims of crimes in the last parliamentary term. In my opinion, everything needs to be done to make the law work perfectly. There is no need for significant changes, and I would therefore like to know what it means to strengthen protection and improve progress. So is it about the new law, the amendment, or just trying to see what the existing law will look like? It also sounds very nice, but it is not clear how it will work in reality, the idea that the government will push for a change in sanctions policy against perpetrators of less serious crimes, which should be punished more often than before by non-incarceration sentences. Of course, this can be agreed with, that is clear - but the courts are independent in their decisions. What does that mean? That there's going to be an amendment to the Criminal Code? Of course, this may be a legitimate idea, but it would be good, if such a question is here to agree with it, or to argue, to have such a more developed theory, because the courts themselves, which are independent, without any change of law, can hardly be ordered or interfered with. I agree with the thesis regarding the new law on the State's Attorney's Office. That's where I think there's something to follow up on. The law was largely prepared already during the previous government and it is possible to come out of it as a basic material that can be debated. Now allow me a few small recommendations which, in my opinion, a government in the area of justice could make and which could lead to a further improvement in the performance of the activities of the Czech justice system. It is a pity that the government, on the one hand, is considering a new law on the prosecutor's office, but is no longer talking about a change or a relation to the law on courts and judges, so it is not clear whether the government is satisfied with the current state or whether it wants to intervene in the status of a Czech judge. It is clear that this law would also need an amendment, which was still prepared for my work at the Ministry of Justice. We should then discuss whether we will have transparent selection procedures in this country in the selection of judges and judicial officials. Unfortunately, it's not in the law right now. We should also have a debate about the position of the President of the Court. Whether it's just the head of the court or the person responsible, even criminally, for the management of the court. Please take a look at the case that has now been presented, when the former President of the Regional Court in Brno is criminally responsible for building a judicial palace, and even under the impression of this case, we should debate whether or not the President of the Court should have an economic responsibility. An important point, which I would also recommend to the government for further consideration, is the design of an electronic mailroom. When we talk about the fight against corruption, etc., on a permanent basis. and unfortunately, these are empty words rather than a debate on specific proposals, so it is the electronic mailroom - the Minister is coming, thank you very much! - I think it could make a significant contribution to a specific judge being assigned a case based on random computer selection and not on some unwritten rules. You know well that we have witnessed in the last parliamentary term that, especially in the field of insolvency courts, questions have been raised about how individual cases come to specific courts. After all, it was a problem for the Regional Court in Brno, where this matter was dealt with. So an electronic mailroom that generates the random allocation of specific cases to a random judge, based, of course, on his expertise, is something that would reduce clientelism and the danger of possible corruption in justice. If we are talking about Slovakia, for example, this model works in Slovakia and in my opinion it is very successful. I would also recommend to the government to deal with the position and position of judicial experts. The legislation of the 1960s is clearly inadequate and the new law has already begun to work. I don't consider it a marginal thing, which is why I think this thing might be in a government statement. In short, expert opinions are crucial for judicial decisions and new legislation, which would give clear rules for the selection of a judicial expert, for the performance of an expert's work and for the penalty of a judicial expert who doubts, I think the Czech Republic would deserve. After all, the law was also largely prepared. I am sorry that there is no mention in the government statement of e-Justici, of the electronicisation of Czech justice. It was a project that we launched under the Topolánkův Government, and some specific projects have, in my opinion, succeeded, such as an electronic payment order. It would be good if the government continued to do these things, because if electronic justice does not develop further, then what has already been introduced will quickly become obsolete and it will be wasted money. We shouldn't resign to the so-called. an electronic court file, a topic that has been laid down and discussed by experts in the previous parliamentary term. It's a shame the government doesn't talk about it at all. Using European money to increase the efficiency of public power in this country. The Prime Minister spoke of an effective quality state, so let's take a look at the e-Justice project. This is a project that would generally increase the effectiveness of justice and also bring benefits to the citizen - more comfortable communication with judicial power. So I'm offering the government here to consider the option of continuing the electronic court file project. I think it would be very important and beneficial. I've already mentioned the money on the administration. I hope that the government in the next budget, which, as the Minister of Finance said, will already read and prepare it, will be able to free up some money for administration and reform changes in justice. After all, the Minister himself wondered about this budget for this year at the Constitutional Legal Committee, and she also confirmed my view that the budget for this year does not allow for any major reform action in the area of justice. And the last thing I'm going to mention is free legal aid, which I also think is important. Although she is briefly mentioned in the Coalition Treaty, I, as an opposition Member, read what is primarily offered to me as an opposition Member and what we will be voting on today - the trust associated with the government statement. I see the coalition treaty as a document between the three political parties. This means that free legal aid is also a subject which, in my opinion, should be taken into account. [[20.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of an analysis of one chapter, I have tried to suggest that the government's statement could be longer, could be handled better and could be more detailed. In my opinion, the government was to use the constitutional deadline it has in the Constitution to prepare for it before it came before the House. Of course, the government wouldn't have to make any government statements, but then I'd think it was disrespectful to Parliament. If Parliament is to exercise control over the government, then there should be a document today that says that Parliament will be able to control it, virtually. The Chamber of Deputies to implement. But, ladies and gentlemen, according to such general and short material, Parliament will hardly be able to exercise control over the government. On one chapter, I tried to prove it. That is also why I will not support this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, I have a registered Mrs. Justice Minister, Mrs. Válková. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u164	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Pospíšil, thank you very much for the analysis that I believe is such a constructive step and a constructive way for the opposition to draw attention to either the real or perceived gaps in the programming declaration. I must agree that there is an area which is designated as the Ministry of Justice, all the time and incomplete. Part of it is that we had every limited space for the five six priorities. In part, some resorts needed a little more scope to present their priorities. I, too, was based on the fact that when we write 'we will adopt a new civil order', and I also do not question that, because I have watched your speech closely, except for the minute that I came here, so a very ambitious project within one parliamentary term to adopt a new civil order, and not only that ambition goes further, to consider also unification with other civil procedural regulations. Certainly the penal code, some versions of which have already been prepared, is also one of the projects that deserved to be divorced more. But I still think that those who understand the issue just need this piece of information, for which there is a lot of work and effort that the former Minister of Justice himself has tried well on several codes, for the last time in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which he has managed to enforce and which will certainly be connected always with his name. As for the victims of crimes, I should not be reprimanded again that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u165	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry. Your two minutes are up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u166	Is it over? Then there's nothing I can do to be a bad example of the Minister of Justice who doesn't keep that limit. And I will personally tell Mr Pospíšil my comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u167	Thank you. I ask the speaker's counter to Mrs Markéta Adamová, who is duly signed up for the debate. Please prepare Mr. Pavera. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I am not going to repeat much of what has been said here, although I was also thinking of several questions when reading the government's programming statement. The basic ones were probably these: how are they going to do all of this, and where are they going to do it? Then there are a lot of questions that came to me on specific points, but they would be too specific. But then I realized that I didn't actually have a classic program in my hands, but a marketing statement. After all, the strongest parties to this government are the ČSSD and the ANO movement. And the early appointed ones have already shown us at the edges that they are ready to indebt themselves headlessly to fulfill their often senseless pre-election vows. In the regional elections of his time it was a promise to abolish medical fees. So the Social Democrat captains then cheerfully paid their fees instead of investing in really needed projects and things. And the debt was growing and growing. So this is probably a model of operation according to the ČSSD. We'll promise anything - and how to do it, we'll deal with it later. That's a pretty bad attitude, I think. Then there's another hope, and that's that there's an YES movement in the government. But that would be what disgruntled citizens' action representatives would have to know conceptually - and how else they should approach this program rather than conceptually. Because they're used to business, as they often tell us here that they're not politicians, they're really marketing. And they're used to the business of selling the product in the first place. It is also important that we wrap the product nicely, scent it well, display it well. But do his representatives, I think, know what are really important topics? Where do they draw their knowledge of what needs to be addressed? Probably just from the media. How else can we explain, for example, the fact that we will find efforts in the programming declaration to reduce the number of addicted devices, which I do not deny is certainly necessary and commendable, but there is no mention of the fight against drug and alcohol addiction, which is unfortunately even more widespread in the Czech population than these dependence on game devices. It just doesn't resonate so much with the media right now, it's not that popular. And that's not what I call a conceptual approach. We would find much more similar and pleasing things. For example, increasing the self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic in basic agricultural commodities. So it has already been said here - but is it really something that burns the Czech consumer so much? And that, of course, is how I could continue. So we have a marketing statement from the government - a bundle of promises and declarations. That's not something you can say about trust. The program declaration is not to be a perfumed and nicely wrapped product, but a vision of the direction of the Czech Republic and a realistic guide to the country's administration. Because every product, when you get rid of a nice and pleasant packaging, unwrap it, can soon smell and can even smell. I wouldn't like that very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u169	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Herbert Pavera's microphone, please. Please prepare another one in the order of Mrs Putnová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u170	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the government's programming statement is what it is - very general, as everyone here has said. I understand that everything he plans to do cannot be written in detail in the Government's programming statement. The general things aren't so much to criticize. Perhaps for this reason, they are not so expertly described. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the missing things that I have noticed. What I won't forgive myself to blame the government is that there is no mention in the whole statement towards municipalities and cities. There is at least one sentence in the Coalition Treaty concerning the development of municipalities and cities. Municipalities and cities are just like the family of a basic building unit of a well-functioning state. In the programme statement, I found no significant mention of how the government would like to help municipalities and cities develop them or fight them to reduce bureaucracy, or that it would want to strengthen their powers in any way, for example, by increasing their budgets. He doesn't say anything -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u171	Ambassador, I apologize, and I ask my colleagues to keep our voices down so we can all hear you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u172	Thank you, too. Neither does the information in the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development, where it is precisely about promoting regional development. In the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, in turn, there is talk of rural areas in connection with the development of agriculture under the conditions of the common agricultural policy and the Rural Development Programme. Perhaps there is something else about municipalities in the chapter of education, where we will find a reference to the promotion of the construction of kindergarten and primary schools. At the same time, experience from advanced European regions, such as South Tyrol in northern Italy or Bavaria, clearly shows that municipalities and cities that have enough funding for their development are taking much better care of their citizens, the environment and the promotion of entrepreneurship. As an example, the community with 4,000 inhabitants has CZK 250 million in its budget. The municipalities of the same type have about 70 million crowns a year. And now just a few observations on the Department of Labour and Social Affairs and other ministries I've noticed. There's been a rumor that the employment authorities are finally supposed to do the job they're supposed to do. The previous government of Topolánkův and Nečasův argued that the labour authorities did not work as they should. And I remember because I've been mayor since 1998, as I've said here, even from 1998 to 2006, labor authorities haven't worked to find employment for the unemployed. So just to warn you, they don't work, they don't work at the time. They are only authorities that record unemployed people and record job vacancies for unemployed people. [[20.20 hours]] As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, I think the big mistake is that they don't want to renew hospital fees. I have spoken to many people, among them and a large number of seniors, and they are ready to participate in the payment of at least 60 crowns per day of stay for food. I think that the cancellation of this fee will certainly increase the number of sick days in the hospital, as was the case before the introduction of the fees. With the Ministry of the Environment, because I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region, where air cleanness significantly affects emissions from neighbouring Poland, I therefore thought that the government would somehow be more concerned with this topic, such as pressure on Polish representatives, to reduce the limits for emissions to the air and, for example, restricting imports of low-quality fuel such as coal dust or low-energy coal, but there is no such thing. I also noticed such a contradiction. On the one hand, the government is thinking about reducing dependence on fossil fuels and, on the other hand, it supports the so-called. Boiler subsidies for these very fuels. Ministry of Industry and Trade. This is where we talk about supporting our businessmen. I have a lot of businessmen among my friends - they say one thing. They want stabilized tax laws and other business laws and would appreciate the enforcement of law in the Czech Republic. The most they are hit by the bottom of outstanding invoices and frauds of some companies. At the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, it is not in the programme statement, but the Prime Minister said that they would support technical disciplines and apprenticeships and that they would consider a revision of secondary and university schools. We all know that there are a lot of these schools in our country and that they need to revise and see if all these schools are necessary. The Ministry of the Interior says: support for further development of police officers, police and fire rescue corps. I think that, above all, the government should address the issue of firefighters, because they have a similar function to the police and the army. After all, firefighters are the first to help people in natural disasters, put their lives on the line to protect the lives of others, and have the lowest wages. Finally, I will touch on the European subsidies that have been mentioned here. I think that if the municipalities and cities were to think more, the subsidies were exhausted long ago, because all the municipalities and cities haven't completed the infrastructure and they have prepared projects, including building permits, and they're just waiting for money, and if they dropped this money from some drawer somewhere, they'd certainly welcome it. So maybe here's a piece of advice where the billions that might still be able to get where they might go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u173	I thank the honourable Member and invite Mrs Putnová to the speaker's counter. Please prepare Mr Radim Holeček. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u174	Good evening. Madam President, honourable Member, Madam President, I am not surprised by the long and dramatic course of today's debate. Rituals belong to the life of man and to the whole social life of course. They create an emotional framework for accepting change. And change in political Garniture is undoubtedly a social change. Today, we will also make decisions on the basis of the government's submitted programming declaration. The programme statement should be a strategic document that tells how to keep the country going. And leading means raising hope for the future. Unfortunately, I have to say that this programming statement does not give me any hope. What I would characterize this text is cluelessness. The helplessness, how to continue to manage this country, what we as a country want to do, what we want to achieve and how and from what we can also finance any changes. Let me give you a few examples of education and science policy. The programme statement states that the government will gradually increase the salaries of pedagogical and non-teaching workers, support the modernisation and equipment of schools. This is undoubtedly a commendable effort. Indeed, regional, especially basic education is the key to education policy. To achieve a better quality of education, it is necessary to start at primary schools. Quality basic education is prevention of social exclusion and it is a ticket to life. It is a condition necessary for the development of further education levels. I would therefore expect the programming declaration to state from which sources this priority will be financed and, above all, that it will also be a budgetary priority. You won't find anything like that in the programming statement. On another example of higher education policy, I would like to demonstrate and question the fact that the programming declaration is indeed a strategic document. It states that the government will analyse higher education legislation and propose any changes. I rudely ask - and what will the government do tomorrow? Is that a four-year program? After all, the university law has not changed significantly in the last six years. And if there's an analysis, what are we going to do with the results? What is the educational policy of this future government? If you get into the chapter of science, research and innovation, we will learn that the government wants to expand the number of programmes that support applied research. Until today, I thought there was a general consensus, both between politicians and the professional public, that we would support excellence and that we would concentrate resources. Aren't we done here? At another point, we can read that the government wants to create conditions for changing the evaluation and financing of research projects and research institutions. The government wants to create conditions? After all, the government is the bearer of change. Does the government know how to change the evaluation of funding, with what criteria? If so, why doesn't he tell us? Doesn't he have the guts or doesn't he know? A concentrated expression of helplessness is the declaration of the establishment of the National Education Council. It is meant to be an institution with still unclear competences and opportunities to influence development. It is meant to be an institution that is supposed to conceal cluelessness and provide an alibi for the unclear policy of the current government. The first step didn't go well. I cannot give my support to cluelessness and alibis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. and please, to Mr. Radim Holeček's microphone. Please prepare Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u176	Madam President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, several times during today's very long discussion and negotiations, the movie Jim Jarmusch The Dead Man came to me. If you've seen the movie, it's there, or whoever you haven't seen, there's an Indian who's very worried about getting the Indian name Skibiči, which is the one who talks a lot and says little. This is what it seemed to me sometimes, and I'm gonna try not to be a Skibič. I was elected to the Chamber of Deputies as a region that fights the region of North Moravia for some unflattering title "the edge in which life is hardest to live." Speaking of classics, two meters from trouble when there's no butter, we eat games, so we live in the north. And the truth is, our Ústí region is pretty shocking, too. The region with the greatest unemployment, the second lowest educational structure, the region with the lowest purchasing power of the population and companies. I don't know about your regions, but we're pretty much seeing it on billboards right now. Those of us who have posted their slaughter on the billboard on the highway will hang in many places long and long before they get wet, because there is no company that rents the area with our little things. When I go to work at university, I pass one particularly interesting billboard. It has a beautifully hidden duo of Andrej Babiš and Richard Brabec, who promise Urbi et orbi: We can give people a job. However, in the coalition compromise, the ANO movement in the Ústí region of central justice is embarking on a minimum wage increase. I have been in the campaign even more among people than usual, so I can show practical examples of what a minimum wage increase in practice will do in the Ústí Region. So also for Minister Zaorálek, who didn't want generalities, but wanted examples, I'll say three that attacked me. Josef, living in the mountains, when I was so on the campaign, 25 km from Ústí, an auto mechanic, and he says, "Well, why would I get in for the minimum wage, for I'm worth being on welfare. Now the minimum wage will increase, he'll be motivated, look, we'll make a bar. But the job will no longer be available, because the owner of the car service won't be willing to increase his costs. Another person I can name, Jana from our house, shopkeeper at the butcher's house, long-term unemployed, after returning from maternity leave, happy to be one of the five butcher's shopkeepers. What does it mean when minimum wage increases? Well, the last one admitted goes out of the game because the butcher's gonna wonder why I'd hold five salesmen, I'll only hold four. What about people from excluded locations? Blessed are those of us there. No one's gonna hire them for the current minimum wage, so they're not gonna get any higher. A very small field trip to those excluded localities. Here in Prague, a lady shocked me with an interesting line: Look, there have always been so many inadaptable in Žižkov, and now in recent years it's been fine. They've gone somewhere. For everyone who thinks that, too, I say, "They haven't gone anywhere." Their residence is now Janov, Chánov, Předlice, Šluknovský výzkům and other places in the north. It is our region that becomes the Republic's recess of those I call people in social hibernation, the so-called social sleepers that need to be awakened in some way. Back to the YES movement, which is the driving force behind this clearly left coalition, which promised many, left and right. Again in the campaign in the streets I saw many people with mustaches under their noses. It wasn't the Olympic one that's so popular now -- big congratulations to our Olympics. The mustache I'm talking about was sugar white. The sugar from the donuts people jumped on. People who I think will be very, very disappointed. I have no confidence that the government could, and the steps it indicated in the programming statement, could give people from my region a job unless they were all employed in Lovochemy, Agrofert, which I do not believe. And I'm just not gonna give confidence to the government of unfulfilled promises and conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u177	Thank you and please to Mr Bendl's microphone and please prepare Mr Ondráček. And before I give the floor to Mr Bendl, there is indeed Mrs Pecková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u178	Good evening, Madam President, dear rest of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I'll just, in fact, follow up on my two previous speakers. The only really effective tool in combating social exclusion and the only effective struggle with integration is education, thereby improving the chances of employment in the labour market. Nevertheless, I did not find a half word in the government's programming statement on this issue. I am referring not only to the specific educational needs of socially excluded and disadvantaged children but also to adults who do not often have completed primary education. And without allowing them at least this basic education to be supplemented, any active employment policy and any attempt to integrate a toothless and social network will be overcrowded. I expected the government to go this way. It didn't, so she'd have nothing to do but give and give and give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u179	Thank you, Madame, and please Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour, I will not be the invector alone, but I will be the friend. I want to talk about agriculture, of course, and not about self-sufficiency, about the gunfight that was here, the degree of self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic, because I doubt that the majority in the hall, with all due respect for everyone, knows what we are talking about when we talk about food safety. As far as self-sufficiency is concerned, some may not even know that the Czech Republic is more than self-sufficient in a number of basic commodities. And they're commodities like meat and milk and stuff. So there's no point in discussing it here. However, I will try to say a few helpful and perhaps inconvenient sentences to that chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, but thoughtfully well. When I read the chapter, I thought that it was enough to take a few key priorities, which are contained in the concept of Czech agriculture and food industry, which, although taken into account by the Nečasův government, were discussed completely with NGOs in various forums, I will say where the discussion belonged. And I think that almost all NGOs have expressed their support for this material. All it took was the Minister of Agriculture or the Prime Minister, who asked us here this afternoon to say what we did, to take this material away, maybe to shorten it a little bit so that it wouldn't have to be so long, and to say we'll go this way, because it's a journey that's been discussed for quite a long time, and in the difficult compromises that are in the agricultural sector, the NGOs have finally supported this non-governmental material. It's a shame this government doesn't want to rely on him. All I'm saying is that it would be good, Minister through Madam President, for you to stick to the material. There is a lot of what you say here, even if there are answers to how to deal with the competitiveness of Czech agriculture and food industry. I want to say that if you write here about the fact that the state and government will support investments in primary production and subsequent processing, particularly in the field of livestock production, fruit production, greenery and gardening, which are priorities that we have described together in the past, which I very much agree with, then in turn I say that if you want to address the competitiveness of Czech agriculture by pumping subsidies more and more into it, know that this is more of a poison of the management of Czech farmers and an addictive substance that will not leave good links in the future. The subsidies are a poison that undermines competitiveness, which undermines the conditions within Europe-wide agriculture, and I think that the government as a whole should rather push at the European level, which I did not capture here in a government statement, to lessen distribution, to less subsidies in the agricultural sector, because I am deeply convinced that in some traditional crops that the Czech Republic has as traditional, we will be more than competitive and do not need the European interventions that we have seen in the past, such as sugar and the like. [[20.40 hours]] The government will implement strict rules for business chains to improve the quality of food sold and create more space for quality Czech food. I think we're supposed to introduce strict rules for all those who want to sell any food here, whether it's from abroad or domestic, because people have the right to get quality food. In a government statement, we're assuming that only in chains do we get the wrong food. I would like to point out that this is not true, that it can happen that in the struggle with the chain we will miss the essence of the problem and that is to guard the quality of any food that appears on the market. Seeing enemies only in chains is not a wise vision. And I'm not defending the chains at all. I, too, have tried and pushed the chains to make more use of the Czech food industry on the one hand, on the other hand, the views of the chains need to be heard, why perhaps they cannot prefer the Czech food more, and we should do our utmost together to say the quality food in the first place and say, in the second row, the Czech food has been placed on the market. We also need to know that we are a little on the verge of European rules, and it would not be good to expose the Czech Republic to sanctions by the European Union already because really very important funds flow into agriculture, to Czech agriculture, from Europe. What I regret, then, in the government's statement that the government is noticing about forests - because the Ministry of Agriculture and the Department of Agriculture is in charge of forests in general, not only of state but also of non-state. If you look at the government statement, it is narrowed down to the economic policy of the Forests of the Czech Republic, a state enterprise. But that's not enough. I'm sorry, the state is simply in charge of the entire policy towards the woods. It is also intended to motivate the regions to use the funds allocated from the state budget to regional budgets to support forest management. Some do so, Minister, some by no means, do not support what they should have supported, and there is great disproportion. And since the forest, the quality of the forest, it's just a long run, then we're losing it a lot. I didn't have enough time in my office at the time, but I wish the state had done forest policy as a whole to motivate the regions to do what they should have been motivated to do and what they were given funding to help the private sector in the field of planting new forests and even forest management in general. I read in a government statement that the government will strengthen the protection of high-quality arable land and soil fund. I would like to draw attention to one significant danger. It is often said that populist sentences in the past have been a disaster, and now it is necessary to prevent it. It must be seen that arable land was often taken up by the decision of municipal and regional councils with the support of the state, where there was a chance of creating new jobs, and within the territorial plan to separate some territory where it was appropriate - and agreed to the state administration with self-government - to implement some development there, whether it was family homes or business opportunities that created employment opportunities. In short, it must also be perceived that if a municipality or region decides to agree together on a zoning plan where some development will take place, we artificially increase the price of the land. I don't think we're facing a boom like after 1990 that tens, maybe hundreds of new investors are coming here to push new industrial zones, etc. I don't think that's gonna happen anymore. And I don't think the fear of losing arable land is as real as it was in the '90s. On the contrary, I would like to see the possibility and opportunities of farmers to take advantage of the opportunity to occasionally feed the arable land and turn the grassy area elsewhere into arable land in the management of arable land and within the system of operation of the agricultural sector. In short, they can take advantage of this potential that they have, which, unfortunately, the law forbids them today. What the government doesn't notice at all, and I am very sorry about that, is an excess of bureaucracy within the agricultural sector. We have really experienced so much of the useless things that Europe does not want us to do over the last few years, we have made up a bunch of nonsense about ourselves. A bill was made, the Minister of Agriculture will be able to find it in the Ministry of Agriculture, so-called. The anti-Burrocratic law, which we have been putting together for a long time, is basically written, it is possible to give it a different name, no one here is likely to be vain enough to insist that it must be in the form in which it was processed in the previous parliamentary term, but farmers are waiting for the government to do its utmost to disperse this sector. There is really a lot of nonsense that can be pushed forward together, and there I offer to cooperate with the opposition in this regard because I am concerned about this issue. What the government doesn't do at all is, for example, keeping water in the landscape. It is not a problem that can be repeated to us more and more often, and it is a matter of drought and handling. It is not dedicated, for example. The issue that worries many farmers, because we have 3.5 million landowners in the Czech Republic, but only 26,000 farms, and people who farm in the Czech Republic usually do not own it. The state should look for a way to help farmers reach land, preferably state land, etc., simply to make such a policy so that, in particular, family management in the Czech Republic can flourish, because this is the basis and grunt, but also food industry, which is a bit of an extension of the functioning of Czech agriculture. I miss the issue there, for example. animal cruelty, and I am thinking especially of large livestock, because the state at least partly motivates the municipalities in particular to address the problems of stray dogs and cats, but we do not have a sufficiently developed concept and a functioning system that concerns livestock, horses, cattle, etc. I think the government should see these things. If he comes up with this, I say for myself that I offer maximum support in this area, because these are the things that bother citizens and farmers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u181	Thank you, Mr President, and with priority rights the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Jurečka, has entered into the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u182	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly and briefly. Just a few facts that have been raised here. As far as self-sufficiency is concerned, it is an area for example. the meat referred to by Mr Bendl, where we are not self-sufficient e.g. in pig meat production. As far as the strategy for growth is concerned, of course, I have also declared several times publicly that there are documents and that there are things that cannot be viewed according to which minister was created, but it is important to continue working with them, and I definitely want to continue working with the strategy for growth. [[20.50 hours]] I think I'm the Minister of Agriculture, who came out of the field, and the issue at hand, I dare say, not that I understand extra well, that will show time, but I think I know the reality of agriculture very well. And we've already had four hours of meetings here in the House today with people from the Department of Agriculture, and there are things that they're proposing, and I'm saying - it's just not gonna work in real life, that's nonsense, let's get out of it, let's look for other solutions. As far as food quality is concerned, we said no, no protectionism, or, on the contrary, that we will focus on someone targeted. We say fall to whom, but we will take into account the question of the level of turnover for those with whom we will find any errors, and we will respond to that. There are, of course, things that cannot be written into the government's programming declaration or into the coalition agreement. I have now had the opportunity to look at the government's programming statements of the last ODS, TOP 09 and Public Affairs, and many things that he Bendl of were not there either. And there are things that need to be taken for granted, such as. the issue of the Anti-Burocratic Commission and the reduction of bureaucratic burdens in agriculture. Thus, of course, the Anti-Burocratic Commission continues to work and will work in our resort. However, in conclusion, I would like to say one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate, either from the opposition to the right or from the opposition to the left, all the constructive comments that have been made here today. I sincerely thank you for them and I would very much like to see this approach, when you are telling you how to do these things better and differently, to last and at least for myself and for our department - I am open to this debate and I will be happy to work together in a way that we can move things forward without regard to the political party. Thank you very much and I look forward to working with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u183	I thank the Minister, and I have Mr Bendl's registration with fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u184	Thank you for the words. I just wanted to remind you that I was talking strongly here about the fact that some commodities or in some commodities we are self-sufficient. As far as meat is concerned, it concerns beef. Pork, we know where we stand, that's why the disease fund was created and everything related to it. Therefore, thank God for this curve of pork production in the Czech Republic started to change last year and the amount of pork began to rise. But it doesn't matter. Thank you for the words, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u185	Thank you, Mr President, and the other participants in the debate are Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please prepare Mr Leoš Heger. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u186	Madam President, Members of the Government, colleagues, many have already been said today, so I will try to be as brief as possible not to delay unnecessarily. Each government comes before the Chamber of Deputies with its programming statement stating what it wants to achieve in its governance and what its priorities are. Among other things, I have been dealing with internal security issues for a long time, so I was particularly interested in priorities in this area. We all know where we stand with internal security and that changes, not only partial and cosmetic, are needed. However, after studying the government's programming statement, I found that internal security issues had no priority in this emerging government. Police, firefighters and other components of the integrated rescue system almost as if they didn't even exist. We have only learned the general wording that the government will wage an unnegotiable fight against all forms of corruption, serious economic crime, weirdness, abuse of executions and unfair insolvencys. Corruption and the fight against it - how long has our citizens been hearing this? Even the previous political government, Nečasův-Kalouskův government, wanted to combat corruption, and it was the country's most historically corrupt government. Why doesn't the government make it clear to our citizens that its priority will be the introduction of a law on the property return of politicians and officials and, in the event of inability to prove the acquisition of property, the legality of the acquisition of the property, its seizure, forfeiture, or if you want 100% taxation? This has been written in the pre-election vows of some political parties, but it is now disappearing in some way. What about usury, execution? If the government and its MPs want to fight with usury and executions as they have so far demonstrated here in the Chamber of Deputies, it will probably not be a nonnegotiable fight, or it will be a so-called fight. The situation in these areas is already so serious that I find it at least childish to give up or not to start this fight just because another political entity is trying to start it. And frankly, I did not expect that from Members of the new political bodies. Many voters rightly ask why political representation has not yet been able to define usury, a percentage deviation from average market interest, as is the case in many other countries in Europe and the world, e.g. Switzerland. Is it that hard? No, it's not. There's no will. The will to do something for ordinary people. If the new government wants to combat serious economic crime, let it tell us how it will fight. It will be planted, for example. to enforce a law prohibiting anonymous shares in order to make the ownership structure of undertakings more transparent? The declaration that the State forbids trading with such companies is inadequate and can be seen as discriminatory by the courts. What about the financial police? Three weeks ago, we heard from the Finance Minister that it would, virtually. will be restored. The Prime Minister also said similar on Sunday, but on the same day the Minister of Finance again said in another interview that the new department was not needed, that the strengthening of the current state within the ÚOKFK, i.e. anti-corruption police, would suffice. How should we also perceive the priority of the government's extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, when Members of one of the parties to the emerging government coalition have already signed the amendment to the Constitution and the subsequent amendment to the SAO Act, which narrows these powers in the proposed form. Why isn't he trying to define who the SAO should be controlling, instead of logical, what should he control? I could continue this way, but I will not burden any further, because there is much more missing in the government's programming declaration or only marginally mentioned. Instead, we can only read a general statement that the government will promote enforcement of law. I wish I didn't! Law enforcement is one of the worst in the European Union. It is no exception that the length of the litigation has been dragging us for ten or more years. There are cases older than 20 years. But this was also promised by all previous governments, and as they say, the deed has escaped. Nothing's changed, on the contrary. The length of litigation is being extended, and our citizens are increasingly turning to European judicial institutions. No, this government, which is asking us to trust us here today, has not convinced me, at least on internal security issues, that it will be better and more successful than the previous governments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please to Mr. Leoš Heger's microphone. Please prepare Mrs Hubáčková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u188	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government, honourable Members, the Government's programming statement is a good opportunity to think not only about the fate of our country and its long-term direction, but also about the direction of individual ministries in terms of their long-term activities and, in my case, of course, I will talk about the Health Department. The health view can be divided into three areas, the first two of which, the provision of health services and the financing and payment of systems, slash our company and are in the middle of media interest. However, the third area that I want to talk about most is the area of public health that contributes most to the health of the population, and this area is, on the contrary, literally at the edge of social perception and at the edge of the government's interests, which is before us today. I will mention the first area, the functioning of the public health insurance system and the health services system, really briefly, although it brings a lot of nervousness in the long term, especially between doctors and health professionals and is the most extensive part of the government's programming declaration. [[21.00 hours]] With regard to further cultivation of long-term problems, including the issue of long-term care, the redistribution of insurance premiums, the management and relations of health insurance companies and service providers, the issue of pricing and payment systems, the supervision of health insurance companies and others, I think I can promise that the TOP 09 will support the government as a constructive opposition political party and is prepared for the details of the solutions that will be proposed. And here's the area where the details are the most important. Paradoxically speaking of services, the programming statement does not deal with the needs and status of patients at all. There is only one promise, namely to improve the availability of medicines, which has already started to be fulfilled unfortunately enough before the government's request for trust by an incomprehensible personnel purge at the State Institute for Drug Control, which has gone up to the level of professional workers, i.e. considerably against the spirit of the upcoming Civil Service Act, which we have already heard so much about. The second chapter I want to talk about, as I said, is the funding of health care. I'll be even more brief here. Issues raising funds from the state budget for health care. The issues of the efficiency of the whole system and the issue of regulatory fees have already been discussed so many times on this land that it has no sense in today's exceptional House day to further thaw the atmosphere. I have no choice but to repeat with concern what has already been said here that it is unacceptable for TOP 09 to support the government of budgetary irresponsibleness, which is ready to burden the state budget without any apparent attempt to increase the efficiency of health care. Without participation and without clear measures to further increase efficiency, the problem of economic moral hazard will once again appear on the scene and the debt of competitive and capacity-free care providers, which in the past has always had a short-term effect, and problems have come back. So much for the first two chapters and now a little bit more extensive to the chapter of Public Health. The Government's programming statement completely resigns on issues of promoting population health. While health services that are of high quality and available to us remain a high priority for the government mentioned at the beginning of the government declaration, health services are targeted primarily at individuals. They are of course important, but the irreplaceable duty of the government and the Ministry of Health is also to take care of the development of health and health safety in the population as a whole. This is what the so-called field of study deals with. public health, which includes, in particular, the promotion of a healthy way of life and the supervision of health-risk activities. It is known and empirically undoubtedly confirmed that at a high and balanced level of health of the entire population, public health is involved at least as much as health services for individuals and must be attended by far more ministries than only the Ministry of Health. This must take place through education to healthy life, through the promotion of physical activities, ensuring safety especially in work and transport, by cultivating a healthy environment, by actively seeking diseases that can be prevented, or by actively fighting harmful and addictive activities. Not only does the government's programming statement lack any mention of promoting a healthy way of life, but there is also no mention of combating smoking and drug addiction. It is clear that discussions such as whether the state of a more than healthy population prefers the excise duty on smoking, and these discussions have many opponents. Unfortunately, our Republic is gradually becoming an ashtray of the European Union. Even worse is the situation in the area of alcoholism, which, paradoxically, makes sociopathy even more difficult to deal with than drug addiction, at least in the number of affected people, families, and children to which the underlying negative effects fall. Even this area, and even much more medially popular drug addiction, are simply not in the spotlight of our new government. Despite exceptions such as references to safe food, measures to reduce social exclusion or to reduce the number of people dependent on slot machines, the health care area of the entire population in the government programme is weak. Maybe the government takes it for granted that it didn't want to burden its program. I'm not gonna criticize any more, but I'm just reminding you. Because we are at risk of treating more and more cancer patients or diabetics instead of supporting, for example, children's movements and strengthening the fight against obesity, smoking or alcohol consumption. The strengthening of hygienic and epidemiological services, which is the main carrier for the Ministry of Health and coordinator of preventive actions, and finally significantly activated in this direction in the previous government period, would be very necessary. Perhaps I can therefore appreciate that, contrary to the coalition agreement, the government's declaration does not repeat the attempt to transfer food hygiene to the Ministry of Health, which would further decimate the whole field of hygiene. I hope that it will not appear even in the real steps of the government, although some food producers might like it. Dear government, we are a country where alcohol is extremely much to drink. We're a country that smokes a hundred and six in restaurants, and we're a country where children get fat and move little. Our population is more spoiled than the population in proper Protestant and cosmopolitan societies in the Nordic countries mentioned this morning by the President of the Republic. But few people in our country want to take responsibility for themselves at least in part, at least where their knowledge and abilities make it possible. Health is also important in the field of service provision. But healthcare isn't just fixing 250 billion. CZK for these services, which hide various temptations. It is also a government responsibility to create conditions for strengthening the health of the nation and to encourage the education of every person to be responsible for his health, but also for himself. And believe that this area contributes, both in our country and in modern Europe, to the health of our children and to the extension of the life of our seniors in health and physical well-being much more than endless clashes about adding public money to often redundant and unevenly distributed health facilities. I hope that public health will have at least part of the support in this government, as it has in all developed Europe, especially after the difficult economic crisis that we have experienced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Hubáčková. Please prepare Mrs Chalánková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u190	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many of the critics have been heard here, so I want to touch one single area, and this is the Ústí Region. The Ústí Region is a long-term neglected periphery of the Czech Republic and I was therefore looking for anything positive on the government's programming statement towards the regions or our Ústí Region. And unfortunately, again, no change. [[21.10 hours]] In addition to the fact that the government promises in its statement points that cannot be really fulfilled, especially in the area of strategic plans towards the regions, again the Ústí Region has been forgotten. I understand that expressing itself now on the issue of unemployment is not very interesting for the future fulfillment of this promise, and especially if this is very closely linked to the time bomb, what is the question of breaking or not breaking the coal mining limits. So the government would rather avoid this problem altogether. But what I am fundamentally lacking in the programming statement is the construction of transport infrastructure, a topic that is directly related to the possible impact on unemployment. In the territory of the Ústí Region we have two roads of the motorway type, namely the R7 and the D8 motorway. The D8 motorway started construction almost 30 years ago and so far no one has been able to complete this 100-mile stretch. I'm afraid the same fate awaits R7. Surely the new government knows that its predecessors have already committed themselves to completing this infrastructure by 2010. Not only did this not happen, but the new government, which is now asking for confidence, has not even included this communication among its priorities. Yes, the Prime Minister said that although some specific projects are not included in the programming declaration, they will be gradually implemented. But then I consider this programming statement to be very vague and unspeakable. Because people are waiting for concrete steps. I have found nothing really positive in the programming statement and, as a Member of the Ústí Region, I am deeply disappointed, and I cannot therefore support this government, which wants to continue to neglect this complex region. We don't need universal proclamations and promises, we need a specific rescue circle, and I didn't find that in this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u191	Thank you, ma'am. I'd like to see the speaker's counter, Mrs Chalánková. Please prepare Mr Adamec. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u192	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am before you on behalf of the TOP 09 opposition party, which is about to be a constructive opposition to you. Nevertheless, I would like to start by recalling this morning's press conference when, through Madam President, I would like to address the President of the club YES, Mr Faltýnek. I'll take the liberty of quoting him. It was said at this press conference: "I will not take the criticism that is intended solely for the visibility of some politicians and some dying parties seriously. Anyone who criticizes should realize the state he left the country in. I will accept constructive criticism from those who mean it as much as we do." Mr President, through Madam President, I certainly dare to make constructive proposals from the opposition, but I may not think the same way as you do. Now for your own performance. The parties that form a new government coalition have succeeded in the elections based on the negation of the policy of the past government coalition, and for this reason I will draw attention to several aspects. I have here two programming statements: the 2010 Government's 2010 programming statement, which, if I read it, is fulfilled from many points. And I have to say, it wasn't easy. I also have a programming statement from the new government asking for confidence, and here I would touch on the social issues. When the last government is accused of how it worked in terms of savings and within the social system, let me draw your attention to the fact that the national reform programme has also been regularly evaluated at European Union level by the Council of the European Union. The Council's recommendations on the National Reform Programme were issued in the evaluation of the success of the regular European semester, both in 2012, and in 2013. Council Recommendation No 1 of 11 December 2013 on the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, and here you can put in context how we succeeded, is: Secure planned progress towards timely correction of the excessive deficit. To this end, fully implement the 2012 budget and specify the measures of a lasting nature necessary for 2013 in order to achieve the annual average structural adjustment provided for in the Council Recommendation in the context of the excessive deficit procedure. During 2012, the government of the Czech Republic managed to step up the consolidation of public budgets and to support the achievement of the 2013 target with the intention of ending the excessive deficit procedure. The consolidation also includes a gradual reduction in the structural deficit. I'm afraid it won't be that simple now. Why do I say that? I want to talk about the area of social, calmly and openly, and so unpopular measures relating to the payment of pensions. Council Recommendation No 1 of 11 December 2013 on the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 is: To introduce further changes in the public pension system to Rethink plans to allow early departure from the labour market. Ensure broad participation of younger staff in the planned fund system to improve the adequacy of pensions. And here we come to a reduction in valorisation. I know this is a subject that has been quoted here often, but let me warn you that in a government statement in your promise, we will strive to create decent living conditions for the elderly. Agreed. We will push forward the proposal for a regular increase in pensions on inflation and a third of the growth in real wages since 2015. Our reduction measures were also planned by the end of 2015. We would like to fully valorize as much as you do, but it was a state budget deficit. In our view, your proposal is unrealistic because the 1% increase in pensions represents an increase in the state's mandatorial spending by about 3.5 billion. per year. So if average inflation, as before, were about 2% and one third of the average wage increase of half a percent, it would only have to be paid out of the state budget every year to raise pensions by almost 9 billion. More crowns. And here I would like to point out that, on average, the collection of pension insurance amounts to 330 billion. CZK and is paid at least 378, now more billion crowns. Last year's pension account deficit was 47 billion. koruna, this year already 54. If you add this valorization to it, I want to know where you'll have the money for all this. Another point I wanted to touch on is the question of the programming declaration in the area of family tax policy and family policy. The family is at risk from all sides. I am also here to offer my help and cooperation, because family policy is an extremely difficult subject. But allow me to disagree with the fact that you want to postpone the obligation, or you can say wish and then the obligation, to build large-capacity preschool facilities of the kindergarten and kindergarten type up to the municipalities. The village is defending itself so far, so we'll see. I believe that the option and the possibility of allowing alternative forms of babysitting are a better way. As a representative of the Conservative Party, I cannot agree with the sentence that the last year of kindergarten will in principle be compulsory. I think there should be a choice for families. I'm sure it's appropriate, but it shouldn't be mandatory. There are other options for children from a socially disadvantaged environment. What we fundamentally disagree with as TOP 09 is so-called backup maintenance. It means taking over the responsibility that partners should have among themselves, to the state. I believe that many mothers find themselves in an unpleasant situation, but there are other social benefits. For reasons of ideas, but also for reasons of lack of clarity of financial resources for your promises, I will not give the government confidence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u193	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Mr Ivan Adamec will also take the floor. Mrs. Marta Semelová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u194	That's what I thought you couldn't come up with my name, Mr. Vice-President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u195	I think I said it right, colleague, but you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u196	Sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. I'm glad we agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, it's late. Maybe I'll surprise you. I won't be long. I was quite amused by these two statements. Someone's disappointed in the government statement. I am prepared in this room for everything, so I am certainly not disappointed, as an opposition MP certainly not. And then when somebody says that, based on a government resolution, they're going to decide to trust the government. I think there are other parameters why we decide whether or not to grant confidence to the government today. Let's get some pure wine. Of course, a government statement is not the only reason why it will be like this and not otherwise. I may only be interested in one chapter, and that's chapter 3.5 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, because it's my own. And again, I have to say that the material, although it has been said here, vague, vague, without deadlines, I think that this part of the government's programming statement is handled relatively well. I would just like to supplement it, because these are important topics. Finally, the Prime Minister began today at the outset in defending this government statement. And I think we need to focus on some of the points and take them apart a little bit. I'd start a little bit from the back. Here it is said that the government will support the modernisation of industry in order to reduce energy performance, ensure an update of the state energy concept and state raw materials policy. That's quite an interesting subject. I think it is good that there will be an energy concept, because it was not so long ago that we heard the questions of journalists and the public here, whether we are in favour of breaking the mining limit in brown coal pans in northern Bohemia. And I think it would be very fair if there was a clear message in the statement to the residents of these municipalities. Because the uncertainty that's been going on there for years, I don't think it's good. I understand that the energy concept is a clear thing, that it is closely related. Anyway, it should work. Because it's an unpopular decision if there's a limit to breaking. And, of course, if there's no limit to breaking, there's an alternative. On the contrary, I welcome the fact that the government is saying that it will support the construction of nuclear blocks in our Dukovany and Temelín nuclear power plants. I think that's a very important thing. However, the construction of such a block at a nuclear power plant takes about ten, maybe more years. If memory doesn't deceive me, power plant 20 years from the first idea. So, of course, there's a certain period of time when it's necessary to secure the power supply so that it's sufficient. As far as the extraction of minerals is concerned, I was very surprised that it is said here that, of course, we will defend the interests of the state in determining the conditions for extraction and use of minerals, and on the other hand, in the chapter Environment, it suddenly appears that we will not benefit from gold and we will not do exploration or extraction of shale gases. It's not that I'm any supporter of the extraction of shaving gases, that's not what I am. Not even the methods of mining gold. But I'll ask why there's no need for uranium mining, tin mining, extraction of other minerals. I don't think that's quite the way it's set up. That it is more necessary to look at whether the upper law is the right law, according to which we are able to defend these interests from foreign investors. And defend the interests of the state so that, of course, the proceeds belong to as much as possible of the state as possible and at the same time the environment is not damaged. I also welcomed other things that are there. It's pro-export policy. In my experience in foreign economic diplomacy, I must say that as it is written here, it is written very correctly. There are several institutions dealing with this activity, such as CzechInvest, CzechTrade, Czech Export Bank, Export Guarantee and Insurance Company or CzechTourism. I have one thing to say based on my experience. It would be good to think in the spirit of uniting the promotion and interests of the Czech Republic abroad in connection with these institutions. I have experienced that they have defended the interests of the Czech Republic in good faith many times, although they have defended the interests of the Czech Republic well, but each one differently. And I don't think that's good. As a role model, we've always given Canada, and I think that's where we should go. As far as CzechInvest is concerned, that's what happened here today. There's one thing to say. It is not entirely true that the government will restore the incentive system. Of course, the government will probably return those values to the way it was before the adjustment. And here I would warn of one thing - that we do not give investment incentives to companies that build a factory here with our taxpayers' money, produce something, and at the same time after the end of the period when they account for these investment conditions, they disappear from the Czech Republic. That's what I think is very important to watch. Support for small and medium-sized and small business development. It wasn't that long ago, we had a report from 2012. I think a lot of things are coming from these reports. And I think that there is a question here, of course, about how processes are going to take place that are going to reduce the administrative burden on this group of entrepreneurs, because it already states the statistics in these reports that there is a reduction in the administrative burden, and when you ask any small and medium-sized businessman, it will tell you that it is precisely this problem that is troubling him. I'm glad that there's going to be a new law on public procurement, and I hope that it's going to be according to a rule different than it has been so far, because every amendment, every new law on public procurement, was worse than the old one. So I believe it will be different this time and that we can compete so that we can also spend the money and not be accused of being cheaters. Finally, I have one more comment on the adoption of the euro. I think we have committed ourselves to adopting the euro in the accession treaties to the European Union. I think, of course, one thing is to meet the Maastricht criteria so that we can reach a condition that we can adopt the euro. On the other hand, I think there is another condition that we do not talk about: the euro must be adopted when it is beneficial for citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention and I wish you a happy hand in voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u197	I thank Mr Adamc. The words will be taken by Mrs Marta Semelová, and Mr Daniel Korte will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u198	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me, too, to say a few words about the government and its statement before the House today. Many points in the government statement can certainly be agreed with: raising and valorising pensions, increasing minimum wages, stabilizing and strengthening employment offices, where 1,200 new employees are needed - all of which can be agreed and supported. On this occasion, I would add to the need to change the current practice, where a private agency ensures, for payment, what should be ensured by the employment office or that employers do not have to report job vacancies to the employment office. So I repeat, there are points worthy of support, but the problem is that the text is too general, without a specific outline of the solution, without deadlines of fulfilment, lacks the idea of financial security. Nor is what is contained in the text important, but what is not contained there, what the government coalition prefers to avoid for sure. Now to some points. The development of high-quality and generally available public services in the fields of education, health, social system, etc., which the government has placed among its priorities. It's okay. However, there are doubts about the fact that when the state budget was discussed, the members of the government parties rejected our amendment, which aimed precisely at the availability of public services in the social field. I am thinking of increasing the funds for social services, many of which are at risk of collapse. Finances to boost the low salaries of social workers, which take between 14 and 16,000 gross. Likewise, our proposal to abolish health charges did not receive government support. It turns out that something else is a general statement, something else is a specific fulfillment. [[21.30 hours]] The same applies to education. Here, too, we have proposed that undervalued teacher salaries be financially strengthened by one billion crowns, but even this proposal of ours, thanks to the members of the current government coalition, did not pass. And now you've put it in your own government statement. Therefore, my doubts as to whether you are serious about what you are presenting. After all, the government will certainly be able to prove in the coming months the extent to which they are serious about their promises and about the availability of education, as we will again submit a proposal for the abolition of the so-called KSČM. kindergarten fees in kindergarten schools, i.e. the payment for the stay of a child in kindergarten, or the cancellation of tuition fees at higher vocational schools. I wonder if the coalition will support our proposal in the spirit of its government statement. Support for pre-school education and extension of the capacity of kindergarten schools, which were interrupted in the 1990s, should be assessed positively. On the other hand, I lack a position on the children's groups to replace pre-school education with mere care. The government does not deal with missing manger, which is missing from many families or single mothers. On the contrary, the aid deserves to change the financing of regional education. The current system is one of the many causes of a decline in the quality of education, when schools receive almost everyone, regardless of the results. It also threatens small rural schools where there are few children, so change is very necessary. Unfortunately, in the government's statement, again, there is only a general declaration without a hint of a solution. As well as promoting technical education and teaching disciplines so that the education system reflects the needs of the labour market more. Yes, I'm sure that's necessary. On the one hand there are thousands of unemployed graduates of schools, on the other hand there are lack of technicians and craftsmen. But it's too late to start with secondary education. If we want to increase interest in these fields, we need to start from primary school. We should return to the restoration of basic education, support the creation of school workshops and land and, of course, also prepare educators. Another thing the education government comes up with is a resolution to stabilize state graduations in content and financial terms and introduce master trials in specific fields of study. Agreed. In recent years, graduations were undoubtedly very overpriced and constant changes resulting from changing concepts of changing ministers of education did not bring stability necessary for the work of teachers and the quality of education. As far as secondary education is concerned, I lack a statement on other important issues such as the optimisation of the secondary school network, the question of multi-annual grammar schools or the introduction of admission exams at secondary schools, which is increasingly discussed between educators, associations and at regional level. With regard to higher education, the KSČM clearly supports the promise of a government coalition that it will not introduce tuition fees or entry fees. However, I note that there is currently an entry fee for admission procedures for university, along with a number of other fees which increase the cost of study for families. However, what the government coalition has avoided is the attitude to the existing tuition at public higher vocational schools, which we believe should be abolished. After all, we have already proposed this in the last parliamentary term, and we intend to present this proposal now. Next point. Transparent financing of sport, setting criteria for public support for international sporting events, etc. Yes, but I stress that sport needs to be paid constant attention, not only to the top. It is necessary to focus on the wide range and accessibility of sport for children and youth, on the equipment of school gyms and sports facilities, on the development and availability of extracurricular education as such. What I miss in the section of the programme statement relating to education is the identification of steps towards increasing the quality of education, which has gone down sharply over the last two decades. The text does not mention the question of the single framework of teaching in primary schools, the issue of ecclesiastical and private education, alternative education, including home education, discussed the teaching of two compulsory foreign languages in primary schools. These are all things the coalition should comment on. And it's not just about education. However, this is what I was talking about at the beginning of my performance. I must admit that much of what is stated in the government statement could be aimed at solving the accumulated problems. Economics, social, health, dealing with record unemployment and poverty, problems in education and many others, that is what the government consisting of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL should focus on. However, it is the composition of the new government and the way the various political parties negotiate that it will indeed be able to do so, whether the promises made by the voters before the elections will be fulfilled. The retreat from some of ČSSD's main pre-election cards was more than obvious during the negotiations. The pressure of KDU-ČSL, by which this party enforced specific ministries, which are by chance the very ones that are significant in connection with the issuance of church gifts, was obvious. At the same time, the church's so-called restitution, with which the vast majority of Czech citizens disagree, was one of the main topics not only for us in the Czech Republic but also for social democracy. And it's not just them. There is much more to what social democracy has backed down under the pressure of the other two governmental parties. I understand that a compromise is necessary in the case of a coalition. However, not on essential matters, which were part of the key promises before the elections and which were in favour of the citizens. Unfortunately, this has happened. Therefore, the government of the ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement cannot have our support for the reasons I have stated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u199	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. The next performer is Mr Daniel Korte and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u200	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, when I heard Prime Minister Sobotka say that the government under his leadership intends to expand or restore an investment incentive system for foreign companies, I was ambushed by a rather unpleasant and disturbing feeling of déjà vu. It was under the socialist government, led by Miloš Zeman, who tilted the words of investment incentives in all falls and in all figures. Among other things, this policy was at the turn of 1999 and 2000 the case of Philips in Hranice, Moravia. [[21.40 hours]] To remind you, there was a Mrs. Markéta Regecová who refused to sell her land to this company for a lousy dumping price, which was supposed to produce colorful TV screens there - a big hit of the 1990s. From the side of the town hall, which was led by social democracy at the time, Mrs Regecová was under severe and brutal pressure, bordering on extortion, to which the highest forces of the state were not hesitated to engage, state power, when they sent Deputy Police President Václav Jakubík to Mrs Regecová, apparently to scare her to death, which he failed because Mrs Regecová bravely resisted to finally achieve a decent price for her land. Since then, there has been a lot of water in the Bečva River and I wonder where Philips is with his color TV screens. I honestly don't know, but I know he's not in the Boundaries of Moravia. The whole hype, too, with investment incentives to help tackle unemployment, proved odd. The employment situation in Cologne in TPCA as well as in Hyundai, Nošovice, where foreign workers are imported. That's what we put investment incentives on! Congratulations! It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that this whole famous ČSSD policy on investment incentives was a fatal fiasco. In fact, it was aid for foreign capital and discrimination against domestic companies that could never achieve such incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping that the CSSD had learned from the mistakes it had made. It's obvious I was wrong. [[Laughter from the benches on the right.]] And that's why it's obvious that this government doesn't get my vote, even if it sings the voices of angels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u201	Thank you, Mr Korte. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and the President of the ODS Club have made a point of fact. Then duly registered Mrs. Věra Kovářová. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u202	Perhaps just a brief answer to Mr Korte. Maybe it's also for some kind of interpellation to get accurate information from the MIT and from CzechInvest. So the company went bankrupt very quickly. She left the Czech Republic very quickly and did not fulfil her obligations to the Czech Republic. The greatness, the halls that remain empty until today, they are called Jumb 1 and Jumbo 2. Well, we've got two Jumbos, and our taxpayers cost quite a lot of money and deed and ran away. And besides what you said about the pressure on that lady, she was also scandalized. Let's just say that. Publicly duped, she dared not to sell her property! And I think that in the last parliamentary term, many Members across the political spectrum have voted on a law to facilitate expropriation. I then voted against, and the result is exactly the same, because it meant that we would not offer the owners a fair price. And now we're so surprised the owners don't want to sell their land at these ridiculous prices. So maybe it's for an exact interpellation to get the numbers together. But I remember the promise of thousands and thousands of jobs. We paid for it, and there are no jobs, a long time ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u203	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, duly applied for. Mr Karamazov will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, when I joined the debate ten hours ago, I thought I'd tell you a lot of discoveries that may even please you, given their intellectual indiscretion. After listening to my previous speakers' contributions, it is clear to me that the arguments that I wanted to question the quality of the government's programming statement no longer seem very original. Looking at your tired faces, it is also clear to me that I will please you the most when I end my performance without unnecessary extension, for example by quoting Chinese proverbs: The one who promises easily does not trust it very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Words will be taken by Mr Simeon Karamazov. Mr. František Vácha will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u206	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, allow me to make a few comments on the Government's programming statement as an academic worker, as a higher education teacher and as a still scientific worker. Support for education, education, science and research is the goal of every government. There is no doubt that educated people are able to apply the results of science into practice and are the basis for the prosperity of society. I'm sure we can agree on that across the political spectrum. The programming declaration contains these objectives and it is okay. However, it is no surprise, it is of course a necessity. It would be a surprise if, in addition to the formulation of objectives that have already been formulated by someone else in the past, we could also find a concrete and functional guide on how to get to those objectives. It's not easy, of course, I'm aware of that. Nevertheless, I would have expected that the programming declaration would contain at least a hint of a solution. It doesn't. As an opposition Member, however, I will be happy and wish the government at least some of the government's stated objectives will be fulfilled. Not because I'm such a fan of the left-wing government, but because education, science and research are our common priorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u207	I thank Mr Karamaz. Mr František Vácha will take the floor and prepare the last one entered into the debate, Mr Karel Fiedler. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u208	Mr President, Mr Government, my fellow Members, I am in a similar position to my fellow Member, Mrs Kovářová. I have experience here that when I sit in a meeting long enough, mostly what I think of, someone will say during that meeting. And since I'm one of the last ones, that's what happened in this case, and that's why I waive the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u209	Thank you, František Vách. Now I'm asking President Mihola if he's exercising priority rights. Yes, please. So first, Mr. Jiří Mihola, chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u210	Mr President, Prime Minister, fellow Members, as President of the KDU-ČSL Group, I feel obliged to speak in support of the coalition government of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement, which, led by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka today, is coming up with a request for your trust. More than a quarter of a year has passed since the early elections in October, which shows that this government was not born quite simply. In the opinion of many, the coalition of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL is the best of possible solutions for another least bad solution to the post-election situation, and it seems to be one of the few real solutions to the post-election situation. After all, there weren't really many discussions about other alternatives. I am pleased that the government has made a clear declaration in the coalition agreement and in the programming declaration to a socially and economically oriented market economy. It is certainly good news for citizens that they have also signed up for a non-negotiable fight against all forms of corruption, serious economic crime, odds that they refuse to trade with firms with unclear owners, and that they have identified as one of their main priorities the adoption of the Civil Service Act, which aims to ensure the depoliticisation of the state administration, the definition of criteria for recruitment, remuneration and career progress of officials, including the emphasis on their education and expertise. [[21.50 hours]] The opposition, too, must look forward to the government calling it one of the main priorities, and explicitly states this in its statement, promoting science, research and innovation. Surely we still have a vivid memory of the fact that when discussing the approval of the state budget, there may have been no lower words than science, research, innovation. I believe that there are very few ways in which the Czech Republic has a chance to succeed and break through. This is undoubtedly one of them. I have tried to listen carefully all afternoon and evening to the debate that traditionally precedes the government's own vote on trust. I was particularly interested in some of the passages from the President's speech. I completely agree that it is possible to learn where advanced democracy works, rather than at any cost in the capture of Chechocentrism to seek an original path that rarely ends in a fiasco. I differ in favour of countries that are historically and culturally closest to us and are also closely linked to us economically. Which are, I don't have to say. I also claim that it is not only possible but very beneficial to combine political work and expertise and that we will find enough examples in our modern history. [[It's busy in the hall.]] There was a label that said the government coalition was left-wing. The Chairman of the ANO movement has already responded. I also categorically disagree with the fact that KDU-ČSL is perhaps the left-wing side. I understand the criticisms of the opposition, they are completely legitimate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u211	Mr President, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace so that you can finish your speech in good order, for the attention of other colleagues and colleagues. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u212	Many of the programming declarations have been criticised and remarked in detail, but not always fully rightly. I will give two examples, because I was odd at the final editorial of this programming statement, and although I do not consider it a perfect issue, for example, the criticism of a general referendum or the increase in the financial literacy of citizens is even in the priorities of the government. The new coalition does not have an easy task ahead of it, and it will prove whether it has or does not. After the fall of Nečasův' government and too long a government without trust, citizens of this country deserve to lead a strong and stable formation that will go further than other early elections. In this hope and in the absence of any other real and acceptable alternative, I will support this government and, together with me, the entire KDU-ČSL parliamentary club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u213	I thank President Jiří Mihol for his speech and the last one entered into the debate is Mr Karel Fiedler. I'll give him my word. I will then have the ambition to end the debate if anyone else does not sign up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u214	Good evening, Mr President, thank you, thank you, all Members. Originally, I didn't expect to be here in this discussion because today was a very extensive day and there was a lot to say. However, on the basis of the course of today, I would like to comment on what has also been said here. It was a rejection of the position of the President of Social Democracy and the Prime Minister on our request for a clear statement on the general referendum, and my previous speaker spoke of it a moment ago. We got answers in two ways, actually. On the one hand, it was the journey of a written letter that passed us here today in our bench club, and partly through electronic media, where Prime Minister Sobotka was told that citizens would simply not be able to comment on all the questions. I would like to respond to what has also been said here from one of my previous speakers that such a pre-election hit of social democracy was the very so-called church restitution, and at some point the oblivion of this pre-election point. I wonder, then, whether the limitation of the questions that citizens might possibly comment on in a referendum is related to the vote on government trust, because one of those coalition partners, KDU specifically, considers this point essential and refuses to discuss it. The previous speakers and the Prime Minister also referred to the fact that, while not clearly stated in the Government's programming statement on how the general referendums to which the other parties also professed should look, they refer to the coalition treaty. The coalition treaty literally states: At the same time, the Constitutional Law will set out a list of questions on which a referendum cannot be declared. Here I would ask a simple question, which can be very simply answered: Yes or no. And I think that the citizens of this country would be very interested in the answer, because it would clearly indicate how the government or Prime Minister imagined defining those issues that citizens could not vote on. And because of the election meetings and the debates with citizens and the response, I know that the question of so-called church restitutions is very intense for them and they would like to comment on it, so I ask a question that can simply be answered yes or no. Through Mr President, I am asking the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, among those questions that would be excluded from the referendum would be church restitution? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u215	I thank Mr Fiedler. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura is still reporting from the position. I don't see another application. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u216	Maybe before the vote, the Prime Minister could tell us if he's gonna answer the questions that fell here today, or if it's just gonna blow out the chimney and expect us to repeat them during the interpelations or something. Because if there's gonna be a dialogue, then when someone asks, I think it's polite to answer a question or say, "I'll answer it then and then." A lot of questions were raised, I would say tens, from many colleagues' speeches. It wasn't just from our side, it was from other sides. Allow me to ask questions from two areas that have not been discussed too much today, and this is the area of the programming declaration of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So there is absolutely no mention of the public service. If we're talking about unemployment, about people keeping their work habits as far as possible, I think we need to reinstate this institute. And we're ready to debate parameters, ways of rewarding who's supposed to go, who's not supposed to go, so it's motivational. That means whoever wants to be motivated in some way and adequately rewarded. That's what I think is missing from the programming statement. Then perhaps I would like to hear a more specific answer to the government's intention, which is very good: Temporary exemption from social security payments for 12 months for employers who employ citizens particularly at risk in the labour market. These employees will be paid by the State. Then it's so general that they're people over 50, college graduates, maybe even high school graduates and parents who come back from parental leave, whether they're moms or fathers. From other performances I noticed an effort to define this boundary within 30 years. If we take the active age of people who go to work, we basically define the endangered group by the fifty percent group. If we're going to work with the average retirement age, if it's gradually increasing to 65, then 50 to 65 is 15 years. If we say college ends between 23 and 25, by the time we're 30, it's another seven. At that point, if we support this group, it becomes a vulnerable group between 30 and 50 completely logically. [[2.00 hours]] I think we should be very careful in defining the groups that will receive this support because those employers will behave economically, if it is economic motivation, so logically. I miss the details here in the sense that these people have to be at the employment office first? And if so, how long? And if they're already there and they're picking up, will they be the ones talking, who's been there for six months? Then it will no longer be budgetaryly neutral, as proposed, because then it usually falls, with some age groups it is completely over. And that's not where we're gonna know the answers. It's a rather forceful intervention, and it seems to us that the definition is too broad. If we call 50 percent of the population at that working age at risk, that number seems too high. So these are two specific questions in the area of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Then there is a rather extensive chapter, apparently to justify the Minister without portfolio, the Minister for Human Rights. And it says: "We will consistently oppose all forms of violence and acts of racial intolerance, such as antigypsyism and anti-Semitism. " I think it's okay, but how can the government be a forceful performer? We'd like to know how. I think we can agree that these are negative phenomena that we should be dealing with. But they are also negative phenomena, so, in my opinion, something called a politically correct dictionary contributes to this. We don't often want to name the problem by its real name. Whoever names him is very often simply labeled as a racist, like one who doesn't understand and so on. And that creates tension in locations where the problems with socially weak really exist. So I think that the first prerequisite for us to be able to speak against real racism and real intolerance, that we will stop speaking politically correct language, or so-called politically correct language, and we will call things true names. At that point, we'll be able to distinguish between the real racists and the others. There is nothing worse when they demonstrate citizens who feel powerless against the situation that exists in the locality. And they're not racist. They're not pariahs, they're not enemies of the state. These are normal people who want to have basically just peace of mind so that after work, after school they can realize their free time and their lives. And often in that agenda, we just face things and we don't want to name things the way they exist. I could put it out of practice, and I would be added to many mayors across the political spectrum, how, once a problem arises, workers from the Office of the Government, human rights nonprofit organizations, and so on, who very often do not know the problem in the place, make more intensely unspoken assessments and give princely advice to the mayors what to do. Then we're very surprised how many ghettos and excluded locations we have in those cities. We who live there and who sit in those town halls just don't know it, and these people know it. And I think we're going to have to do this right, but at the same time, we're going to have to call things right, or the majority society is not going to accept the government's measures and Parliament's consensus. I am not going to talk about gender-balanced things. Jana Černochová did this for us in her performance. I want to say for us that we reject all quotas. Personally, I think it's more of an insult to successful women. And if I wanted to make it easy, look at those who have the word gender balance written, what composition they're sitting behind us in. I'm not criticizing it, I'm just stating. We just don't write it down in the programming statement. It's, I think, 14 to 3. Very gender-balanced. Let's take this as a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u217	So, that was the last application for the debate. As I do not see any more applications, I am ending the debate. Let me ask you, is there an interest in the Prime Minister's final word? That's right. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u218	Thank you, honourable Members. Don't worry, I don't have an hour's closing gig in which I would now honestly recapitulate all the questions that were raised in the debate and try to answer them in an exhaustive manner. It would take about an hour to half an hour. I'm offering an alternative. I don't think that's new, but I haven't seen it in this kind of trust debate. I would like to offer it to colleagues who have asked specific questions that can be identified in a certain way. It's all in the tapestry. I'll have the tape analyzed, prepare specific answers to your questions in cooperation with individual resorts so that you can receive them in writing. And if you are not satisfied with these answers, naturally there is the possibility to use the interpelation, there is also the possibility to use written interpelation and to ask additional questions. So I suggest we deal with specific questions in this form. I was approached by some members of the government who wanted to respond. I think, from the point of view of the late hour we are in today, we could slowly, I say slowly, I do not want to rush the debate - you know that at the beginning I stood up for the opposition and her right to do obstruction - but we could be heading slowly towards the final vote, so that it is clear whether the government appointed by President Zeman has or does not have the confidence of this Chamber of Deputies. And just maybe two more points to conclude, which I can't delay. First thing. On the one hand, I think it is certainly possible to criticise the government for not having anything in its programme to tackle unemployment, but I think that it is not possible to ask at the same time the details of the specific plan contained in the proposal, which is intended to address unemployment. So I'd like to ask my colleagues from the ODS to get this thing straight. So you will either criticize the government for not writing anything about what we should be dealing with, or you will be, like President Stanjura has just done, asking who will be affected by the social security discount proposed by the government under his programme. And second point, more of a subject for discussion, and now I don't know if it was the House plenary or the Chamber of Deputies' Economic Committee. Investment incentives - I found during today's debate that this is a permanent topic that traumatizes a number of Members and Members of the Chamber of Deputies. Because I think it would be good for us to look at the facts in peace, that is, how many incentives have been provided, how many jobs have been created, how many jobs have been created to date, how many have been created for people from the Czech Republic, and how many, for example, for agency workers from third countries or other countries of the European Union. Let's put the facts on the table, please. I will ask the Minister of Industry and Trade to process the analysis and ask him to come to, for example, the Economic Committee and organise a seminar where figures relating to investment incentives appear. Because talking here about the fact that the TPCA's arrival in Cologne was a mistake or that Hyundai in North Moravia was a mistake, ignoring tens of thousands of places that were created by the subcontractors of these companies that carry out the final assembly, not to mention it at all and then talk about Philips... Remember that Philips and Flextronics in Brno were in fact the only two significant cases of the failure of investment incentives policy. In Brno, another company bought Flextronics hall, which employs employees there today and built another hall next to it. So it wasn't a problem. Indeed, the hall after Philips remained here as a monument and it is due to the extent of the investment that was made. But there were hundreds of other cases where governments provided investment incentives not only to foreign but also to domestic entities. I would like you not to talk about investment incentives for foreign entities, because legislation has been giving the same conditions for all for many years, regardless of whether it is Czech capital or foreign capital. So there were hundreds of cases where investment incentives came out, there are still jobs there today, and I am glad that I have managed to increase interest in the Czech Republic from the point of view of direct investment. And thanks to that, there was economic growth, over which some here were concerned, that it was perhaps too much - the six percent that the Czech Republic was growing. So much for a second comment on the Margo debate on investment incentives. But I don't want to repress those critical opinions in this final act right now. I would like to ask the Minister of Industry and Trade to prepare a seminar in cooperation with, for example, the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Let us put the numbers on the table, let us publish them, whether it is clear whether the policy of investment incentives was or was not beneficial for Czech taxpayers. On the one hand, let us spend our expenses and, on the other hand, give revenue in the form of new jobs and tax and social contributions to the system of the Czech Republic. [[22.10 hours]] So that's just two specific points. I am prepared to respond in writing to the specific questions that have been raised in this debate. I would like to thank you for the debate. I don't think it's too long. I have now been asked by a journalist whether I expected the debate to be this long or stormy. I think it is normal that there is a debate in the democratic parliament. The vote on government trust is a serious matter, I assume that this may also be the only vote of this type during this parliamentary term. The government is to bring stability to the country, and if this is a serious matter, it also includes a sufficiently detailed and extensive debate. Thank you, thank you for all your comments, thank you for all your questions, and allow me once again to ask the Chamber of Deputies very seriously and seriously to launch the full legitimacy of the new government by giving it confidence in the next vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Prime Minister for the final vote and we will now proceed to the vote. It is recalled that according to § 85 para. 1 and 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall be put to the vote on a proposal to express confidence in the Government on behalf of the Government. In order to adopt a resolution on the declaration of confidence to the Government, the consent of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I ask the designated verifier of this meeting, which is Mr Pavel Čihák and Mr Jiří Mihola, to take up positions at the rapporteur's table. First we proceed according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to draw up the name of the Member from whom the vote will take place in alphabetical order. I have been informed that a check of tickets with the names of Members has been carried out. Member number 54, Jan Hamáček, was drawn. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] I have at least 200 witnesses here that I wasn't looking. Okay. It is recalled that according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be formulated by the Member 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal'. If he abstains, he will say, "I am abstaining." A different speech by the Member shall be regarded as a delay in voting. I ask that each of the Members raised state their position loudly enough so that I may repeat them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies has expressed confidence in the government'. Now I will summon you, and I beg you to speak. Initiating vote. Mr Jan Hamáček: For a proposal. Proposition. Member Michal Hašek: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Havíř: For a proposal. Mrs Olga Havlová: přítomný. Mr Leoš Heger: Against the proposal. Mr Daniel Herman: Proposition. Mrs Jana Hnyková: přítomný. Member Jiří Holeček: For a proposal. Mr Radim Holeček: Against the proposal. Member Jaroslav Holík: absent. Mr Pavel Holík: For a proposal. Mr Václav Horáček: Against the proposal. Mr Ludvík Hovorka: For a proposal. Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková: She is staying. Member Stanislav Huml: For a proposal. Mrs Jitka Chalánková: Against the proposal. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa: For a proposal. Mr Milan Chovanec: For a proposal. Member Jan Chvojka: For a proposal. Mr Igor Jakubčík: For a proposal. Mr Vítězslav Jandák: For the proposal. Mr Miloslav Janulík: For a proposal. Mrs Jaroslava Jermanová: For the proposal. Mrs Věra Jourová: For the proposal. Mr Jiří Junek: For a proposal. Mr Marian Jurečka: For a proposal. Member David Kádner: Not present. Mrs Zuzana Kailová: For the proposal. Mr Miroslav Kalousek: Against the proposal. Mr Vít Kaňkovský: For a proposal. Mr Simeon Karamazov: Against the proposal. Mr David Kasal: For a proposal. Mr Jan Klán: He is staying. Member Jaroslav Klaška: For a proposal. Mr. Václav Klučka: For a proposal. Mr Martin Kolovratník: For a proposal. Mr Martin Komárek: For a proposal. Mrs Kateřina Konečná: She is staying. Mr. Vladimír Koníček: He is staying. Mr Daniel Korte: Against the proposal. Mr Petr Kořenek: For a proposal. Mr Jiří Koskuba: For a proposal. Mr Rom Kostřica: absent. Mr Josef Kott: For a proposal. Mr Jiří Koubek: Against the proposal. Mr Pavel Kováčik: He is staying. Mrs Věra Kovářová: Against the proposal. Member Jaroslav Krákora: For a proposal. Mr Roman Kubíček: For a proposal. Member Michal Kučera: absent. Mr Petr Kudela: For a proposal. Mrs Helena Langšádlová: Against the proposal. Mr Martin Lank: Not present. Mr František Laudát: Against the proposal. Member Jaroslav Lobkowicz: Not present. Mrs Jana Lorencová: For the proposal. Member Stanislav Mackovík. He's stalling. Mrs Soňa Marková: She's staying. Mrs Květa Matušovská: She is staying. Mrs Radka Maxová: For the proposal. Member Jiří Mihola: For a proposal. Member Jan Mládek: For a proposal. Josef Nekl: He's stalling. Mrs Miroslava Němcová: Against the proposal. Mrs Alena Nohavová: She is staying. Mrs Nina Nováková: přítomný. Mr Josef Novotný: For a proposal. [[22.20 hours]] Mr Martin Novotný: Against the proposal. Mr Igor Nykl: For a proposal. Ms Pavlína Nytrová: For the proposal. Mr Tomio Okamura: nepřítomný. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk: For a proposal. Member Zdeněk Ondráček: Staying. Member Miroslav Opálka: Staying. Mrs Jana Pastuchová: For the proposal. Mr Herbert Pavera: Against the proposal. Mrs Gabriela Pecková: Against the proposal. Mrs Marie Pěnčíková: She is staying. Mr Miloš Petera's Member: Proposition. Mr. Jiří Petrů: For a proposal. Mr Stanislav Pfléger: For a proposal. Member Ivan Pilný: For a proposal. Member Lukáš Pleticha: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Ploc: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Plzák: For a proposal. Mr Tomáš Jan Podivínský: For a proposal. Mr Ivo Pojezný: Staying. Mr Stanislav Polčák: Against the proposal. Mr Jiří Pospíšil: Against the proposal. Member Karel Pražák: absent. Mr Roman Procházka: For a proposal. Mrs Anna Putnová: Against the proposal. Mr Karel Rais: For a proposal. Mr Adam Rykala: For a proposal. Mr Antonín Seďa: For a proposal. Mr Jan Sedláček: For a proposal. Mr Martin Sedlář: For a proposal. Mrs Marta Semelová: She is staying. Mr Bronislav Schwarz: For a proposal. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg: Against the proposal. Mr Jiří Skalický: Against the proposal. Mr Roman Sklenák: For a proposal. Mr Václav Snopek: He is staying. Mr Bohuslav Sobotka: For a proposal. Mr Zdeněk Soukup: For a proposal. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura: Against the proposal. Mrs Miroslava Strnadlová: For the proposal. Mr Martin Stropnický: For a proposal. Mr Štěpán Stupčuk: For a proposal. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda: Against the proposal. Member Milan Šarapatka: absent. Josef Šenfeld: He's staying. Mr Karel Šidlo: He is staying. Mr Ladislav Šincl: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Šrámek: For a proposal. Member Jiří Štětina: Not present. Member Jeroným Tejc: Proposition. Mr Lubomír Toufar: For a proposal. Mr Karel Tureček: Against the proposal. Member Josef Uhlík: For a proposal. Mr Milan Urban: For a proposal. Mrs Dana Váhalová: For the proposal. Mr František Vácha: Against the proposal. Mr. Jiří Valenta: He's stalling. Mrs Helena Válková: For the proposal. Mr Roman Váňa: Proposition. Mr Ladislav Velebný: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Volčík: For a proposal. Mr Jan Volný: For a proposal. Mr Radek Vondráček: For a proposal. Member Josef Vondrášek: He is staying. Lady Miloslava Vostrá: She is staying. Mr Václav Votava: For a proposal. Member Josef Vozdecký: For a proposal. Mr Vlastimil Vozka: For a proposal. Mr Rostislav Vyzula: For a proposal. Mrs Markéta Wernerová: For the proposal. Member Josef Zahradníček: Staying. Mr Jan zahradník: Against the proposal. Mr Lubomír Zaorálek: For a proposal. Mr Jaroslav Zavadil: For a proposal. Mrs Kristýna Zelienková: For the proposal. Member Jiří Zemánek: For a proposal. Mr Václav Zemek: For a proposal. Member Jiří Zimola: For a proposal. Member Jiří Zlatuška: For a proposal. Mr Marek Ženíšek: Against the proposal. Member Petr Adam: Not present. Mr. Vojtěch Adam: Staying. Member Ivan Adamec: Against the proposal. Mr František Adámek: For a proposal. Mrs Markéta Adamová: Against the proposal. Member Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor: absent. Mr Pavel Antonín: For a proposal. Madam Hana Aulická Jírovcová: She is staying. Mr. Andrej Babiš: Proposition. Mr Miloš Babiš: For a proposal. Mrs Margita Balaštíková: For the proposal. Mr Jan Bartošek: For a proposal. Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová: She is staying. Mr Jiří Běhounek: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek: For a proposal. Mr Marek Benda: Against the proposal. Mr Petr Bendl: Against the proposal. Mr Ondřej Benešík: For a proposal. Mrs Marie Benešová: For the proposal. Mrs Martina Berdychová: For the proposal. [[22.30 hours]] Mr Stanislav Berkovec: For a proposal. Mr Zdeněk Bezecný: Against the proposal. Mr Adolf Beznoska: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Birke: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Blažek: Against the proposal. Mr Robin Böhnisch: Proposition. Member Jaroslav Borka: Staying. Member Richard Brabec: For a proposal. Mr Milan Brázdil: For a proposal. Member Marek Černoch: absent. Mrs Jana Černochová: Against the proposal. Mr Alexander Černý: Staying. Mr Karel Černý: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Čihák: For a proposal. Mr René Číp: He's stalling. Mrs Ivana Dobešová: For the proposal. Member Jiří Dolejš: He is staying. Member Richard Dolejš: For a proposal. Member Jaroslav Faltýnek: For a proposal. Mr Jan Farský: Against the proposal. Mr Petr Fiala: Against the proposal. Mr Radim Fiala: absent. Member Karel Fiedler: absent. Mr Matěj Fichtner: For a proposal. Mr Vojtěch Filip: Staying. Mrs Jana Fischerová: Against the proposal. Member Jaroslav Foldyna: For a proposal. Member Ivan Gabal: nepřítomný. Mr Petr Gazdík: Against the proposal. Member Miroslav Grebeníček: He is staying. Member Stanislav Grospič: Staying. Josef Hájek: For a proposal. Mrs Milada Halíková: She is staying. That vote, according to my information and remarks, is over. I ask whether all Members have been read, or whether there are any doubts about the course of the vote. It's not like that. I ask the verifier's masters to tell me what time they need to find out the results of the vote. [[Verifiers suggest 15 minutes.]] Fifteen minutes. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I haven't interrupted the meeting yet, so I'm asking the verifiers if they really insist on 15 minutes. Really. Well, in that case, it'll be by 22.50. I am interrupting the House of Deputies until 22.50 hours, and at 22.50 we will return to the announcement of the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u220	The honourable Member, honourable Members, is 22.50. Let's keep going. I ask that you take your seats in the Chamber, and at the same time I ask you to pay attention to the appearance of the verifiers, who have very carefully added up the individual votes and certainly have information for us on how the vote turned out. I'll wait a little while longer for you all to keep your voice down. Yes, thank you. Mr Mihola's speech, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u221	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a total of 181 Members and Members of the Council of 110 Members voted against the proposal by 38 Members and 33 Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-18-ps2013-006-09-001-060.u222	Thank you. I note that the Chamber of Deputies has expressed confidence in the government. I'm done with point number one. 60. Before we go any further, I would like to put forward a procedural proposal that we now vote on the fact that the Chamber of Deputies is excluding paragraphs 28, 71 and 72 of the House's 6th meeting from the agenda. I will vote on this proposal. Whoever agrees that we remove all remaining points from the agenda, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 176. It's logged in 181, 121, versus 51. This proposal was adopted. I'm done with the sixth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you all for coming. I congratulate the Government of the Czech Republic on gaining confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. I'll meet you at another proper meeting scheduled for March 18th. Have a good trip home and have a nice evening.
