ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended / House print 175/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. And now, under the authority of the government, I ask that the proposal put forward by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u2	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed bill concerns the issue of raising pensions and it can be said that it contains two main measures. The whole point of this law is to return to the system of valorization, which was here, can be said to be neglected, except for the last one this year, when pensioners received an average of CZK 45 a month extra. So one of these measures is based on a government statement and a coalition agreement, and it says that we are going back to the principle of automatic valorisation every time from 1 January of the following year, by valorizing by 100 percent of the growth in consumer prices and one third of the growth in real wages. [[11.10 hours]] However, since these indices are - can be said - too low this year, so that we can at least compensate the elderly for the fact that their pensions have not increased for several years, we have proposed such special measures for 2015 so that the average increase in pensions is at least CZK 200, respectively. it is about 207, and it is defined that for the average self-paid old-age pension, the total increase should be at least 1,8 %. Because we all know that the situation of seniors is very difficult and has deteriorated sharply over the last few years, and they are also seniors who have been increasing in recent years at the residential hotels, so I ask the esteemed Chamber of Deputies to support this law and to be approved at first reading for technical and administrative matters, so that it is on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Pavlína Nytrová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, let me join the request to vote on this House press at first reading. The Minister's report was exhaustive, and I have nothing more to add to this, only that the effectiveness of the proposed law is set at 1 September, taking into account the need to provide for an increase in pensions in 2015 by 30 September 2014. It is therefore proposed that the Chamber of Deputies should agree with the proposal at first reading. If the proposed adjustment is not implemented, the current trend will continue to reduce the real value of pensions and the backward development of the standard of living of pensioners for the development of the living standard of the rest of the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, for presenting the report. Mr Laudát has now volunteered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the two TOP 09 and ODS clubs, I give the veto to discuss this material under Section 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since two vetoes have raised vetoes, this cannot be discussed in an accelerated reading. In that case, the law must go through proper reading. So I am opening up a general debate to which I am registering the first application - Mr Laudát. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u8	Thank you again, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like the Minister of Finance to be present for all these materials when discussing state finances, in order to answer from what sources the financing of these changes will be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u9	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mr Opálka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I was not surprised by the progress of the MPs and the TOP 09 because it is about reversing what was accepted when they ruled. I have to say, the problem isn't just about valorization. The problem is that due to the reduced valorisation in the past and this year, the overall basis is reduced, which is the basis for the next valorisation every year. So if, given the economic situation, the tax on the richest income has increased by 7 per cent to three years, in three years, the 7 per cent should be wiped out according to the law, and they should be on their own. Unlike those elderly people who have had three years of reduced valorisation, but due to the valorization, they are constantly reducing the base against the original, so it's permanent damage, not temporary. I just want to point out that pensioners, both in the 1990s and during this period, are one of those who are to bear the problems of this state's economy. I understand that the state budget is on how it is, and the deficit is what it is, and I keep my fingers crossed to succeed, just as the Minister of Finance says, above all, to plug holes in the money that flow to someone who thinks it's a good thing. On the other hand, on the other hand, I must say that we must also protect ourselves from dealing with Europe in this case and that the number of those below or just above the poverty line will rise, which is almost the same. Therefore, I think it is necessary to urgently discuss this law in order to take from 1. 7. the Government could act, and propose, if the commandments were approved, a reduction of the deadline to six days, so that at the latest next week, the Social Policy Committee, which should be given this wine, could be convened, so that we could discuss the second reading on Wednesday next week at the latest, and the next week, so that the law could be voted by the House at third reading. I can imagine other options that could be addressed by this law, such as the ceiling of constant growth for entitlement to an old-age pension for, say, 65 years, but I don't know if I can do it by next week. I'm also calling on this extension option here for this next point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I've registered well. Mr Stanjura is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u12	At this meeting we have an extreme number of materials that the government or the submitters, it is not always the government, they propose to discuss in the '90s. I, in general, am opposed to this, it is to be touched on quite exceptionally. The proposed effective date shows that we can have a proper debate in the committees, not on Tuesdays after the meeting, from 7 p.m., or rather before the meeting, so that the 24-hour deadline for the committee's resolution is over. That means I, on behalf of two MPs, veto a reduction to six days. But also what Mr Opálka said - we are able to discuss and manage the proposed effectiveness. Of course, there are more problems. One of them was referred to by my previous speaker, it's the retirement age, but the other is also the calculation of retirement. If we are not aware or aware, but if you look at a table where you have existing income in the left column and in the right column obtained pension, you will find that the system is highly unfair for some groups, and I am not talking about those covered by a 70% solidarity premium on income tax. I'm not talking about those who have income over 100 grand a month. I am talking about those who form the middle class, for which, in terms of income, the transition to pension is a fundamental change in income. For low-income groups, basically, the income is the same when they retire. And it's a serious question that we should be debating. The fact that there is a deficit in the pension account of around CZK 50 billion every year in recent years means that if we take the total deficit of the state budget, only the deficit of the pension account is more than 50 percent. The trend is actually relentless. If you take the deficit on that account as it went in years, and about 10 billion went up, then it stagnated around 50 billion. I just don't think there's a law as important as this with an impact on nearly three million inhabitants as we have at our disposal either at all or six days. I think we are able to do this in a relatively short period of time - we will not artificially block and artificially stretch, but we will be able to say, in the course of committee discussions, or at plenary at first, second or third readings, some groundwork. We may not find them at the given time, but we may at least start a debate on whether we are able to mitigate the injustice of granting pensions in some way. [[11.20 hours]] It's perfectly clear that this system will always be solidarity. And I would hate to be accused of not proposing a solidarity element in that system. But in my opinion, the element is too solidarity. I recommend to all colleagues and colleagues that they see how it is. Let them ask their pensioners, who may have been in middle class before they retired, how much financial impact it was. And that is the main reason why we want this to be discussed in the committees. For there to be time. I agree that it is not the only question - and I do not want to make it any less difficult - if the degree of valorisation. Other issues are also important, which we would like to discuss in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u13	Thank you. Mr Opálka, another member of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So, I don't know if my colleague put the veto on for six days in two clubs...? He's kývat, isn't he? So all I have to do is go for 30 days, which, of course, is gonna be pretty tough. But one reaction, except we're going to have to discuss it on the committee. The deficit in the pension account is of course large, because the quasi-insurable system is actually constantly regulated by laws and parameters change so much that you can artificially induce deficit at any time. And it has to be said that the deficit, of course, is also created because there are a lot of substitute times that no one pays. But it's mainly made up of the fact that there's a lot of unemployment. If half a million people don't pay in their retirement account and 250,000 have gone into early retirement during their lifetime, that is, of course, some kind of intervention. And unemployment actually solves a retirement account. So the pension account is solidified with the state in the area of unemployment. And so we could continue one parameter at a time, but this will probably be the subject of professional groups dealing with pension reform. So multi-source funding, not only from insurance premiums, but also with the participation of the state, is common in all European states, at least west of us. Also, there is a pension compensation ratio far greater than 40 percent of the average wage to the average pension. If we want to keep this line, then, of course, solidarity is also needed there. And that solidarity has already been humiliated by the Constitutional Court. If we continue to humiliate this principle, we will really get to what has been presented in the previous elections by Odeska, and that is an equal pension somewhere at the limit of the minimum of living for everyone, and then, of course, the business for pension funds and other companies that will deal with extra insurance for those who have it. That's all. So 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next envoy is Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm kind of staring at what my previous speaker says. I still remember well when the Communists blocked or rejected any solution that would, in a way, address the financing of pensions in the future. You said quite clearly a while ago, and as the only ones holding it, the Social Democrats kept turning around and saying that there was no train going through the ongoing system. As far as the ceiling of payments is concerned, this was originally the Socialist proposal here in 2004, only then were the subsidies. You're against it today, too. You are going to abolish the second pension pillar, thus condemning the Czech Republic irreversibly to capital poverty, because if funds are somehow forced, e.g. in a legislative way, so the money not only ours, but even foreign we could have here for example. to develop infrastructure. But you're against it, too. You're not offering any solutions. And from the mouth of a socialist who's been here in the past years, he's now sitting in the Senate - why would we solve a problem that comes in 16 years? Let them deal with it later, those who will rule here at the time... Well, the problem with the economic crisis that broke out in 2008 didn't come in 16 years, came in already. Please note that the problem is deeper than what Mr Opálka said here, because even in the era of the Minister of Finance, Sobotka's number of unemployed persons has also moved somewhere around 500,000 in spite of economic growth, today is over 600,000. So of course it has an effect, no one's questioning it, it's a problem. But back then, the pension system wasn't in deficit. You're not offering a solution. Of course, I take it our seniors aren't well. But what you're saying here... You're challenging raisins, you're going to increase the mandatorial expenses, and it might turn out so far in the near future that we're going to have to reach out to retirement, which, despite the terrible crisis that came across us, and especially through the surrounding countries, except perhaps Germany, especially in southern Europe, they had to do so somewhere. So please, I don't agree with this social demagogy. Come up with a rational solution. Perhaps we would even consider various vetoes, if not yesterday's speech by the Minister of Finance to the Budget Committee, from which I got the impression that he may be a great manager for the company, however, he does not know much about state finances, convergence programmes, medium-term plans, budget financing, etc.. So I'm more worried about it. It would be normal to say how much it will cost in what years and where this country, from what sources, will take it. That's perfectly correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u17	Thank you. I have here with Mr. Jeroným Tejc's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to engage in difficult and long discussions, but I think there is one thing to respond to. The past government coalitions, which were responsible for the state of public finances in this House, have decided that, although there is a crisis, they will reduce social security contributions, perhaps providing us with more jobs. He became the opposite - unemployment grew. This means that this measure had no significant positive effect on the number of jobs, but it also caused a public budget outage, even in the case of social insurance contributions. No, we did it. The downturn was caused both by the crisis and by the growth of unemployment and by the lack of good and truly flawed measures of right-wing governments. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u19	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Chalánková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will just briefly supplement my previous speakers, because it was said here that in other countries we have multi-source financing of the pension account. Thanks to the fact that we have to pay the pension account -- 47 here, now over 50 billion crowns, it is clear that we still have multi-source funding today, because this pension account is being bailed out of tax revenue. When it comes to talking about high unemployment, it is also necessary to look at the structure of the unemployed. If we ignore the 200,000 long-term unemployed, it is necessary to look at the fact that a large proportion of unemployed and unemployable people today, especially graduates, although helping them actually specifically in active employment policy, are linked to the fact that these people are difficult to employ, given their education, the kind of school they have, as well as the needs of the labour market. So this is really where the offer of education goes by. That's the big problem with young people. If we were talking about a high levy and a very low compensation ratio, it was a really successful litigation of a person, even repeated, which had a relatively good income, but after retirement, given that he spent his whole life without a ceiling on pension insurance, social insurance, his compensation ratio fell to 19 percent of the average wage, which the Constitutional Court recognised as incorrect. [[11.30 hours]] I admit that seniors really aren't well. And a large part of them actually receive a contribution and a housing supplement, which is indeed an alarming situation regarding their housing. I'm sure you do. But if we look at the so-called small pension reform that was approved, it meant adjusting the parameters that were necessary due to developments in the pension account. If the so-called small pension reform had not been approved for such a pension reform, it would mean that pensions would indeed have to be humiliated or retired even further, which none of us want. It's simple math. If we stop retirement and we have a bunch of money, it is clear that then we have to reduce pensions and not just in terms of valorisation. The issue of reduced contributions in past governments is a matter of debatable importance. Indeed, we can also talk about whether this has not been a positive fiscal impulse at the moment. It is obvious that the debate can be very broad and the really planned initiative to abolish voluntary pension reform is, I would say, very special, because pension reform is complementary, there is the possibility of taking part of the social security contributions into its account for the future, with additional 2% of the gross wage in contributions being added, but it is indeed a voluntary thing, which is not entirely ideal, because if it were mandatory, it would certainly be more effective. But canceling something that was approved as voluntary will not really solve the fundamental problem of our pension account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u21	Thank you, Madame. I have Mr Laudát here. I just don't know if it's a factual or proper application. A proper application. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u22	I have to respond to my colleague Tejc. There is one problem that there is no comparison whether something really has a positive or negative impact. Reduced labour prices - this is the eternal theme of the Czech economy and so far not completely satisfactorily solved. Of course, I could ask if social democracy would rule between 2008 and 2012 what would happen. For example, it ruled between 2002 and 2006, growth was some 7-8 percent, and you clenched an outrageous axe into the state budget. That means you ran a deficit. I can imagine what would happen if the decline in economic growth was less than 5%, what would you do. It's very sketchy. Just as today's Minister of the Zaorálek here once was angry at how futile and miserable the war in Afghanistan is. I totally agree with him, but there is no assessment of what would have happened if she hadn't been there. That's what we saw in a hint in the United States. In terms of analogy, it's something similar. As regards this, I would ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to sometimes put an information point here that would objectively address the pensioners' cost of living, or these people, because I do not know if it is only sometimes the way to add a handout, which even irritates some pensioners, or to walk here with measures that block the growth of life costs. For example, I find it totally unacceptable to have huge support for renewables. This is exactly a notch, which is much worse for pensioners - because everyone shines, everyone may drown, consumes energy - than freezing or small additions to pensions. I think that it would be worth taking this problem more comprehensively and not only blocking it unilaterally further and further in debt, which we will pay multiple in the finals because each debt has its costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have here, with the factual remark of Mr Jeroným Tejc. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u24	Thank you. I guess we all live in different states. I didn't notice the debt going down. Debt has increased almost twice in right-wing governments. I don't know if we can have the same view of who did it. I am convinced that it is the Members and the government who have proposed deficit budgets here. It is not that social democracy is throwing away and that the right-wing government of the ODS and the TOP 09 are reducing debt in this House. It's definitely not like that. Deficits have increased and government debt has increased, and this has been very significant. The second is the question of who will decide whether labour costs and their price will be significantly reflected in employment or unemployment. Yes, I'm sure there isn't going to be a hundred percent assessment. On the other hand, unfortunately, right-wing governments have reduced labour costs especially for the richest, because the introduction of a flat tax reduced the price of labour for those who received CZK 80, 100 or 120,000 a month. And that's where I think we didn't have to compete with the world. We simply will never lower the cost of work to the level of China and India. If we only want to compete with the cost of work, we won't get far, and we can never win this fight. So it's just for our different looks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another point of fact, Mr. Jiří Petrů is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u26	Thank you. I have a very short question for my colleague Laudát. If he could explain to us where 30 billion went. from the pension account when right-wing governments took over the government in 2006? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u27	Thank you. Properly registered at this moment is the first Mr Zavadil. Your point was factual, Mr. Ambassador? [[Members of Stanjure.]] With priority rights. I'm sorry. You're right, with priority right, come on out, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u28	Thank you. I really didn't do it, but I like to use it, I have to admit that. I think that even the debate shows that putting forward proposals in the '90s or with a six-day discussion deadline is not a good thing for such a complex issue. It's quite typical that colleagues from the left are protesting something that no one here has said. I wasn't talking about equal retirement. Nobody said we wanted to be worth a job like in China or anywhere else. But look at OECD reports that say we have an extremely high cost of work. And we're not suggesting extremes to get the lowest of all of them out of extraordinarily high. It's a legitimate debate. When we talk about it, and it would be a good thing if we reduced the number of unemployed people, so even given their structure, it would most likely not be people who respond to average incomes. Of course, this will help the retirement account. We can model here what would happen if the 200,000 unemployed went to work, they'd have an average salary of 20,000, which would pay the bills. I'm sure it wouldn't turn the pension system into a plus. I think it's important to talk about these parameters. It's quite good to hear that multi-source funding is needed here, and at the same time, someone is suggesting the abolition of the second pillar. It's in a government statement, I didn't make that up. It's just a public source. Then I ask what multisource funding. Then I think it's complicated and confusing when we say we're paying pension insurance. That's not true. That goes against the fact that there's an ongoing system. Because if you're paying for something in terms of insurance, then you have some performance and it depends on what your terms are. But contributions to the pension system, which is much more accurate, are used in the ongoing pension payment system to existing pensioners. So we have extra insurance, second and third pillars, there's a reason for it. You may consider it unnecessary to play with words, but I've always been upset when there's a debate or a debate about pension reform, and on television, you usually see footage of retired people. But pension reform - there should be footage of young people who will retire in 20, 30, 40 years, because these relate to the effects of any pension reform that we either agree on or disagree on. We have our own political experience. We've already had Bezděkův's commission I, Bezděkův's commission II. She agreed on something, and then there was no majority will to implement it. [[11.40 hours]] I'm not blaming anyone, I'm just stating how it went. Now, the Minister is trying to create a new expert group, but when that expert group creates something, we're going to be in the same situation when they were coming out of previous expert groups. What will the political representation do about it? Does it agree? Will it be a stable change? Will it be a change that will be decided by the parties to the left to the right? Or is it gonna be different? That's why we say we need to debate this. But so that someone doesn't really push things around like we want to be worth the same job as in China as my honored previous speaker said, and so on. When somebody says that, you can define yourself against it, I think it's perfectly fine. And the OECD reports are available to all of us. There we can read about the price of work. And speaking at the moment, I'm talking about pension reform and payment to the pension system, personal income tax, I don't think it's quite happy because I just don't see the context there. The income tax on natural persons has nothing to do with the pension scheme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u29	Thank you. Before we continue our negotiations, I have two more tickets. This means today, and from 12 o'clock until the end of the meeting, Mr Jiří Pospíšil apologizes and today from the meeting from 12 to 13.30 for working reasons, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes. Another point of fact is made by Mr Sklenák. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The President of the Stanjura Club said that it is not appropriate for such a complex material to be presented for discussion in an accelerated regime that it is difficult. But, Mr President, it is not difficult, but it is very simple. It is about the priorities of the government, the priorities of this Chamber of Deputies. What we are discussing here is whether we want pensioners to live a dignified life and if we return to the model of valorization as it has been introduced here for years before your government changed them. That's what this is about. In this country there are very low wages, this corresponds to relatively low pensions and the elderly are living very badly. And we just want to return the model of valorization as it was here, because for us the quality of life of seniors is really a priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u31	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u32	I would like to send a message through the Vice-President to my colleague, Mr Sklenák, that he always says it exactly. You want to shorten the transition period from three years to two. I totally agree. That's the description. And you look like the measure we've taken is forever, and now you want to put it back here forever. You know very well that the valorization formula was for three years, so we're talking about shortening from three to two years, which is a perfectly accurate description of this bill. It's not like it was forever. The reasons that led us to do this were well described here. That it wasn't an easy decision, I think we're aware of that. And if you've noticed, I've just asked for enough time to discuss the expert committee. I didn't want to argue here at first reading about whether the proposal was good or bad or something. But I don't think there's anything wrong with that. And if we accept the approach that what is a priority, the House will approve it in the first reading now, because it is the government's priority, I do not consider it happy. And it doesn't matter which government. I just think that the '90s institute should be used exceptionally. With such complex laws, I don't think it's good at all. And the only thing we have said so far, and we have asked you to understand, so that we may have some time in the expert committees, where there is certainly more time to take this into account and have a debate on all parameters. Even as I said, it's possible that this bill may not be covered by the discussed changes because we won't find a match. Nothing more, nothing less. So I would beg that we do not make it so that we do not divide us into those who do good and those who do evil. I think we want to follow the standard legislative procedure. In view of the proposed effective date, there is no delay if you reflect this, how likely, what time limits are likely to be after the first reading. You'll see what efficiency is designed, so we don't make any delays there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u33	Thank you. Another factual one is Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u34	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say exactly what is going on here. And yet if you come up with an increase in the mandatorial expenditure in any item - I wish it to the retirees - then it is logical and we have the right and normal to ask what I'm going to pay for it from. How much will that be, and how much will I pay it? Nothing more and nothing less. And I'm just worried here because some ministers, government, programming statements - and the coalition contract also showed this: you are creating gambling without a solution. That's why we're worried, and in contrast to what you said in the election campaigns on the streets and in the squares, you're just pushing, you're using Section 90 and you're pushing everything down the mountain without thinking about how it's gonna turn out. The public might also be looking forward to some very unpleasant surprises. I understand that for your preferences, I must say that after municipal elections and in Prague regional elections. So it's not about anything other than coming up with something, so you can also show how it fits into that mosaic that you're not going to ruin this country by 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I don't see any more factual remarks. In that case, we'll have a proper discussion and you have the floor, Mr. Deputy Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it's a little startling when you're constantly hearing our government, your government. I had the opportunity to watch these shootings from the outside when I was head of an institution that, among other things, proposed its own pension reform, and even according to the words of your then Minister Drábek, the reform was good. Only for her, there was no political will. I don't know why. It turns out that it will eventually have to change and that there will have to be a political will for pension reform to do a little better than you did. Now I'm starting to wonder about some things. Price of work. Yes, I can even pour out the numbers for you. We are in eighth place in terms of social and health insurance contributions in Europe. But we're at one of the last jobs on wages! And the cost of the job, gentlemen and ladies, counts together! So if we put it together, then we're at the place we're at. So neither on the eighth nor the last, but certainly below the European Union average. This is what we need to do when we talk about the cost of work, make it clear and not draw things out of context. Of course, reducing social security, as has been announced - I remember Petr Nečas, when he said that one percent of the reduction in social security contributions would bring 50,000 jobs. I've heard such nonsense once, and of course it didn't come true either. So let's not just play with this stuff and use it without knowing the deeper analysis, that's another point. A small pension amendment, which was due to proportionality, or rather to non-proportionality, which you introduced in my opinion to 1. 10. 2011 - now I apologize for the completely not precise term. If you were listening to the President of the Constitutional Court of Pavel Rychetský, who then responded to some of these things and said: "The Constitutional Court did not mean what he said about reducing the pension of 70 percent of pensioners. " It was really just about the proportionality. And, of course, it would cost about five billion to keep these 70 or 75 percent of pensioners from reducing pensions in the middle class. That's where the pensioners were robbed permanently. That's it. That's all I got. Well, of course, I'm a little bit in perspective, and with this kind of bonmot, when I put the shortcuts to the TOP, then I figured out why the permanent burglarization of the pensioners happened. But I don't want to say it was intent, God forbid. But it just didn't work out! And about the second pillar, there's no point even talking about that. Because what has brought the second pillar to this state's economy? Of course, if it were mandatory, what I understood as a matter of fact, if it had to be paid into capital funds, which was rejected by the vast majority of this nation. Because, among other things, they don't have the money to pay that kind of money. So be it a man who is 30, 35 or 40 years old. [[11.50 hours]] And the fact that it eventually ended optional, so it condemned this second pillar to extinction of course, but even the idea of the coexistence of two pillars side by side, that is, the second and third, which, of course, could be connected and did not have to create a second capital pillar here. Or did he have to create himself? Or was there money behind it? Or was it the lobby of certain financial groups? I don't know, but we need to take this into account. So I think the end of the second pillar is absolutely right. And what else did it do? You all know that, and here in this House, you've been assured that VAT needs to be raised. About what? Well, because of the second pillar, because the outage of funds that went into the interim system was replaced by an increase in VAT. This was claimed by both then Minister of Finance Kalousek and Petr Nečas as Prime Minister. So VAT was introduced only because there was a second pillar introduced here, which turned out the same way and which will now be discussed, in fact, to abolish it. This is what it takes for you all to realize! You guys were sitting here! I was watching it from the outside. I've always had a very bad feeling about this. And I was absolutely trying to be objective, pragmatic, because what we were preparing was things that were based on analyses, and no one questioned our experts in the field of macroeconomic or legal or pension. As far as pension reform is concerned, I believe it is the right step. But we've gotten somewhere else now that we're going to have a debate where we're going to talk about whether or not to cancel the second pillar. I am convinced that it will have to be cancelled because its capacity, which is now, because we have about 85,000 clients there to argue that they are therefore in such a small number of people, that it was not really mandatory, but, on the other hand, I know this year, the Czech National Bank should decide what to do with capital funds, where there are no 50,000 people. So we're still gonna have to do what we do next. So I consider the second pillar completely unhappy as it was conceived. I understand the argument that has been made here, and I am trying to understand it and I am trying to be objective. This means that it is not on the side of Stanjura's colleagues or colleagues - I am sorry for the name, I do not remember - that there is more of an effort to discuss this in sufficient care. I could understand that. But I don't know if there's anything else going on yet. I apologize for being so distrustful because I have spent more than 20 years behind the walls of this Parliament, so I have every right to be distrustful of things. So I'm just asking that we really win our minds so we don't blame ourselves here for who did this and that. I could go back to the Kočárník, who reduced social security by a percentage back then, and in that morning there was a surplus account in the deficit. You may not remember, but I do. And this way, I could continue my social play to the present state, 50 billion, where a number of arguments have already been made here. I'm not going back to that. This is unemployment, and, of course, there is an impact on personal income tax. I just want to translate this through Mr President to a colleague who is no longer here and who has gone into the foyer. So I'd really like it if we could get to this very short-term novel, which is more of a technical feature, which says how to valorize pensions so that they can really adjust it in time to make it happen and that the pensioners who are waiting for it get the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. [[Mr Laudate:]] Another factual point? [[Yes.]] So I will put you in order, and at this point, Mr Opálka is duly enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't want to continue my educational activities. I think it will really be the subject of discussion on other platforms, but I have to respond to some things to set them straight. If I was talking about multi-source funding, I didn't mean the whole pension system, but the first pillar. And so is the comparison with abroad. You know, I think it was unfortunate that in 1992 pension insurance was decided, because that insurance carries with it the principle of an unstable comparison of income and expenditure in that system, and I think that we should return in the first pillar not to insurance, but to social security, or to pension insurance, so that it is actually a pension tax, and then it divides as it divides. But I would like to turn against the words of my colleague, Mr Laudát, who said here that we have no solution. I don't blame him for not looking at our website, of course, but perhaps it would be enough to look at the website of the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where analytical materials and proposals of individual political parties from the so-called. First, the Bezděkův Commission. The study there shows how the party wanted to address the system, and independent statistics and economists then modeled the situation and there is the result. There is the result of the NDC system, there is the result of equal income, there is also our result. Unlike others, until 2100 it was unfinanceable, but it assumed that various parameters would be adjusted. And to make it unrealistic, with the arrival of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Petr Nečas, all the parameters that we had set up in that system were modelled by legislative changes so that the system would basically fall into the slump in which it is today. So all you have to do is look at my website, where there is a separate section of what I have said about pensions in this House in ten years, which I have written in the media or expressed in the media in ten years, and even my few lectures, including slides. So it's not true that we don't have a solution. President Zavadil has already spoken to the OECD. Yes, the tragedy is that we are constantly talking about how high our premiums are, but we are no longer talking about what basis it is. If we had more basics, we wouldn't need a premium that high. Moreover, in the OECD, there are not yet those different bonds that employers in other countries pay outside of these systems in compensation for employees in other countries, as opposed to ours. I also agree that pension reform is not about pensioners, but about those who have yet to retire. And, folks, it's gonna be a disaster! When those who are long-term unemployed reach retirement age and realize that they are not entitled to a pension when they retire those who think that they have matured over the state in the quarc system and are taking minimum pension insurance and discover that their pension will lick somewhere the limit of the minimum life, or those who do black and do not take insurance. This is gonna be a disaster. As for the pension scheme itself. Look, either political representation is agreed on some social objective, and to that end it will look for parameters on how to achieve it, or it will be based on the current situation, it will produce some zero option, and then it will say "we don't have money, we'll go down" and we'll really get somewhere on the equal pension threshold, which, moreover, is calculated on the basis of the ODS assignment. So the solitaire that prevails in our society today, the individualism, when everyone thinks that they will ensure themselves without the risk of his health, injury, or even death, should be replaced by the real collective security that has shown since Bismarckův's time that he is the only one that can prosper in this society. [[12.00 hours]] And I have a final remark on the problem of Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure, to speed up the negotiations. You see, that paragraph was incorporated into the Rules of Procedure when legislation was harmonised with the EU. We were supposed to be hustling, and we had to get things done. Then it turns out it's always a good thing for the coalition to push through. And it is smiling today to listen by ODS and TOP 09 something about the 90th when you can look at the screen record, as I criticized in the last parliamentary term, that 60 percent of the first reading was designed in accordance with Section 90 in an accelerated regime. It's just a footnote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u39	Nice good noon, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. I thank Mr Opálek. With another proper application, Mr Stanjura is registered, but he is not present, so the next is Mr Laudát. Mr Laudát, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u40	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, perhaps one last time on this point. Don't be mad at me if you do some destructive anti-campaign like she did social democracy and KSČM that you cancel something, so you can't expect people to just put their money and report to the product that you said you would cancel. So the anti-campaign was so massive. And it's not enough for you yet, just instead of creating some positive solutions, you're just spreading hate in the case of church settlement now, because there's not enough here. So don't be mad at me, but that was a little bit in the sense of the former exexexexexexpression of the Soviet Union Gromyk, master nez, nez, nez, nez, nothing with you was an agreement. The only deal with the left to accept anything in any way was the volunteering of the second pillar, which is why it ended up combined with the anti-campaign as it turned out. Let's see what you come up with. I'm really wondering what kind of solution you're going to be, and I can imagine what you're going to do in the first phase of the fight against corruption, so property returns are going to be introduced, and it's going to be introduced elsewhere for the taxation of well-being, so then you just take it from those who have bought something, I'm talking about those who have worked it out, not thieves, they're going to sit in jail, and then you're going to put it on, and there's going to be financial resources. As long as these people don't pick up and leave here, which affected all the neighboring countries where they started to practice this way, so please, maybe so, but as far as volunteering is concerned, and I welcome my colleague's words that it was bad, that it should be mandatory, but of course I would imagine, given that it is the most sensitive commodity, that is, money that people are saving for their retirement age, so that it should be regulated, and it would be quite easily possible by legal measures, that a substantial part or a whole part of it at least in some types of funds or in all will simply go into being invested, for example, in transport infrastructure, so that the values are in our country, have been taxed and not alienated. But you ruined all this, or you're about to ruin it. So sorry, but you're the young generation who was here when you talked and left, it's not just the current retirees, but you're sending a young generation on a trajectory of incredible trouble. A young generation. And that's what my colleague Stanjura said. And that's where I see a huge problem. And yet even Mr. Bezděk and others have clearly calculated that demographic trouble will occur, and I don't know, I have heard here, admit that I am not studying the pages of the KSČM, but maybe I will do it and correct it, but if there is a word here about equal income, well, in the coalition agreement, if I am not mistaken, strengthening merit, on the other hand, there is the abolition of the second pillar, so the contradiction as a belt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u41	I thank Mr Laudát. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. I'm not registering any applications. If no one else applies to the general debate, I am ending the general debate. At this point, I do not see a motion for a rebuttal or rejection of the proposal, so we will be dealing with a proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. I'm asking if anyone else has any other suggestions. He doesn't. Thank you. We will therefore vote on the commandment of the motion for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. - Excuse me, Mr. Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u42	I'm sorry, but I suggest a social committee. Where else would this be discussed? I consider budget and social to be correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-30-ps2013-008-02-013-021.u43	Okay. I am registering Mr Laudát's proposal for a hearing on the Social Committee. We shall vote on the proposal for discussion in the Committee on Budgets and Social Affairs. I am opening the vote on the discussion of this proposal in the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote number 43, registered by 156 Members of Parliament, for 131, against 2. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the commandment of this proposal from the Social Committee. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this proposal from the Social Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 44, registered 157 Members and Members, for 138, against no one. that is, that we have also ordered the proposal to the Social Committee. Furthermore, in the general debate, there was a proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days. I therefore initiate the vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 45-order vote, 157 Members and Members, for 118, against 3. This proposal has also been adopted. I therefore note that we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the budgetary and social committee and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced by 30 days. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. I'm ending reading this bill first. The next item is:
