ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-22-ps2013-023-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the next day of the adjourned 23rd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. Please log in with your ID cards and possibly tell me who's applying for a replacement card. At this point, I am registering my person's replacement cards, so Mrs Jermanová votes with card number 9, Mr Votava with card number 11 and Mr Petr Fiala with card number 17. I declare that the following Members asked to apologize for their non-Participation: Adam Petr - family reasons, Adam Vojtěch - health reasons, Adamec Ivan - working reasons, Adamová Markéta - personal reasons, Aulická Jírovcová Hana - personal reasons, Balaštíková Margit - working reasons, Brázdil Milan - working reasons, Černochová Jana - working reasons, Číp René - personal reasons, Fischerová Jana - working reasons, Grebeníček Miroslav - medical reasons, Horáček Václav - working reasons, Chalánková Jitka from 11.30 - personal reasons, Janulík Miloslav - working reasons, Karamazov Simeon - personal reasons, Novotný Josef - personal reasons, Okamura Tomio - foreign travel, Opálka Miroslav - personal reasons, Pavera Herbert - personal reasons, Plíšek Martin - personal Pražák, Karel - foreign trip, Schwarzenberg Karel - Volčík Pavel - personal reasons, Šincl Ladislav - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical Zlatuška - medical Jiří - foreign - medical reasons. Before we go any further, I'll ask the House of Honor for peace. [[He's waiting for a while.]] Thank you. Today we should focus on points 138 and 139, House prints 291/4 and 307/3, returned to the Senate. I do not register here any application with priority rights, so we will now proceed to discuss the bills passed by the Senate. I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, to allow Senator Miloš Vystrčil, Jiří Oberfalzer, Jan Žaloudík and Vladimír Plačka to perform. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. Who agrees with the performance of the appointed senators? Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 249, to which 159 were registered, for 155. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I beg the senator's lords. If they're in the foyer, I'd like to ask the service to present them. With the replacement card number 13 today, Minister Brabec and Minister Chovanec will vote with the 18 card. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
