ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u1	38. Government bill amending Act No. 475/2013 Sb., on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 and on the amendment of Act No. 504/2012 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2013, as amended by Act No. 258/2013 Sb. House print 293 - first reading I ask the Minister of Finance to present this press. It also remains the rapporteur for the first reading, which is Mr Votava. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget was based on current data and forecasts at the time. Over time, however, it has been shown that in some areas the assumptions on which they were originally based were not fully met. It is therefore proposed to amend the State Budget Act for 2014 in order to reflect the current situation and to reflect the expected facts as credible as possible. These are changes within the chapters of the Ministry of Health, the Czech Telecommunications Office, the Ministry of Environment, the State Debt, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance. In particular, these changes are concerned. The revenues of the Ministry of Health chapter are increasing by 700 million. CZK in the form of repayment of the return financial assistance provided by the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic in 2013. The revenues of the chapter of the Czech Telecommunications Office are decreasing because the actual revenues from the auction of free radio frequencies amounted to about 1.5 billion. Crowns less than expected. The revenues of the chapter of the Ministry of Environment from the auctions of emission allowances are reduced by 300 million. Crowns. At the same time, the corresponding expenditure of the chapter relating to these revenue is reduced to 150 million. Crowns. The expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Transport is increased by a subsidy from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure amounting to 2 billion. Crowns. The revenue of the Ministry of Finance chapter is increased by 2 billion. on the basis of an exciting judgment of the Supreme Court, the amount reimbursed by AKRO. In order to maintain the state budget deficit, it is proposed to reduce the expenditure of the chapter State debt by about 920 million. Crowns. In a detailed debate, a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days will be proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u3	Thank you, Minister. Please, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Minister has duly justified this press here. I think it's completely unnecessary for me to repeat what he said here. I recommend you proceed to the next reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. The first was President Okamura, then Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot forgive myself for a few comments on this point and, of course, not at all on the point relating to the principle of state management. Part of the state budget revenue update submitted by us, for example, is right at the start of Chapter 328 - Czech Telecommunications Office, in which it is proposed to accept the fact that from the selection procedure for granting rights to use radio frequencies in bands 800, 1,800 and 1600 megahertz, the expected yield is 10 billion. Crowns. This yield was originally proposed to 8 billion, then increased to 10, the reality is 8.5 billion. But I wouldn't want to talk about some techniques and details here, but rather think again about the principles of state management and even functioning. It's just the term "proposed expected return." When I read the press, I had to start laughing like a businessman. The government is proposing how much it will expect, yet if we approach the telecommunications issue comprehensively and with a long-term modern vision, expectations can be completely different, and not just for the government, but also for ordinary citizens. I'll be specific to make it clear why I started talking about all this and why I started talking about telecommunications. Czech Post. We are still struggling with this, and we are hearing it in the media, that it is looking for what it will do for a living in the future, because its original activities are gradually being taken away from the private sector, and it, in its desperation, is taking over activities until recently reserved for the private sector. And, of course, if it goes on like this, once the mail, as we've known it for years, will end. In this context, I have just heard in the media how the Minister of Finance Babiš is asking for an explanation of cash flow management, which is very right that someone has become interested in how such a large gigantic state enterprise works. I've been interested in this for a long time, but I've never been Minister of Finance, so I can't get my hands on those numbers. But I'm sure we're rooting for this effort to keep money from falling into losing companies that clearly don't show the way they do their business. But I would like us, in the case of the Czech Post, not just to end up checking cash flow and some kind of audit or some sort of balance sheet, but to really think business and business about where there are some new strategic sites for the Czech Post, where it could actually gain a monopoly position - and where else besides telecommunications? And just discussing the possibility, and I have already suggested more times that the state would start operating mobile telephone services or at least wireless data transmission, would completely change the view of commercial entities on the market, and these commercial entities would like to pay anything to protect their commercial monopoly over these services. Not to mention, if the state covered the Republic with high-speed internet for all free, and through Internet telephony all state and public institutions would communicate free of charge. The billions we're talking about here would be in our pocket within a very short period of time. I was talking to the Home Secretary the other day, Mr. Chovanc, and now I forgot the number, but only what the Home Office and his organization are spending on phones, Internet and data transmission, so I guess the number was over a billion a year. That means they're gigantic numbers. And if we add up all these costs for state institutions, we could easily build coverage of some networks across the Czech Republic. Of course, mobile operators would be done, they would lobby us here, but we in Dawn know that we will not let ourselves be misbehaved and that this would, of course, benefit. Of course, not only would the state profit from such a solution, but every citizen will now calculate how much he would save if he had a free phone and Internet. Of course, it wouldn't be free, but it would definitely pay off in proportion to the billions when a public organisation pays these services to commercial operators and the huge profits of these operators, and we would certainly be able to provide commercial companies with services from which the operation of such a network would pay. And the simple numbers of buyers say that even so, costs would come back richly in savings, because, of course, this would increase the consumption of citizens, because they would have more money in their pockets and it would have a good effect on the economy, because of course, people would have more money to spend. After all, not only a citizen, but perhaps many ministers can calculate how much his office would save on telecommunications services. And just two more sentences. Again, with the principle that is here repeatedly for a year, we are a little bit like throwing games on the wall, but it is precisely management thinking, when we do not have to increase incomes for citizens, but perhaps for schools or hospitals, but just go the other way, when often it is enough for the state to reduce their costs, and the result will of course be higher satisfaction and standard of living in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u7	Have a good noon. Thank you to President Okamur. In addition, Mr Volný - but excuse me, Mr Ambassador, the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec has signed up with priority, to whom I prefer this. After that, Mr Volný, after that, Mr Laudát. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not have the ambition to speak, but I have to explain some of the statements made by my previous speaker about the Czech Post. As the Czech state cannot operate rail transport without subsidies, we are also in a situation that the Czech state cannot maintain a branch network without funding through its state enterprise Česká pošta. The Czech State decided to introduce data boxes in the past and this one measure cost Czech Post 800 miles. Crowns. In one cut of the pen, we spared at ministries when sending recommended letters, on the other hand we took this money from the Czech Post Office, a.s. I want to completely turn against the fact that the management of the Czech Post is opaque. Czech Post is auditing its management, Czech Post has supervisory board. The question is whether the Czech State, as shareholder through the Ministry of the Interior, has set the direction of the Czech Post correctly in the past. That's the question we're discussing today. The fact that the Czech Post has data calls, that the Czech Post is to look for new clients, that the Czech Post is to have an ambition to behave market, it certainly does. I'm driving around the Czech Republic, talking to the mayors. The first topic they are interested in is not to close the Czech Post office - the first topic. After that, the police department, firefighters, but the first one is the Czech Post. I would hate for us to make this subject an election theme. [[12.10 hours]] However, I have to respond to some of the things that President Okamura has said here, and I cannot ignore them, because we are now deciding whether the process of transforming Czech Post into a joint-stock company will end. That's the pseudoscope we have with Minister Babiš, because I don't know about any confrontation. We normally talk to each other with culture, and the Minister has requested some more economic data that he'll just get. Nothing more, nothing less. At the end of the process, the Czech State should decide which way it wants to go with the Czech Post. The Czech Telecommunications Office, that is, the Czech State's office, said that the Czech Post, in order to fulfil the so-called. universal service that it takes 2 100 branches. This means, the Czech Post, if it is to behave like a proper caretaker, and its management should behave like this, it will come and cancel 1,100 branches in the first stage. And that's what this government doesn't want. We don't want to go there. If we know today that the branch network, ladies and gentlemen, carries a loss of 2.4 billion. koruna, so any business that currently finds the post office, it just doesn't replace it. It won't. So I understand that the český Post needs to be cut to the pulp in terms of costs. I was completely confounded by what the Czech Post sponsored, including the eight million-dollar football cup. So we're forcing the mail lady to wear 15,000 gross heavy cable in the cold, and then we're throwing money out the window. Here I agree with the Vice Prime Minister that these costs need to be clearly eliminated. Definitely. And it's a work in progress. On the other hand, we need a transitional period for the Czech Post to stabilise this state enterprise. We have opened a market for anything here in the past, but without the Czech State looking at the interests of its own organizations. České dráhy, ČD Cargo, Česká pošta. So that's for explaining what else I'd like to explain. But I completely reject the argument that the Czech Post is not controlled, that it does not have audited management. I am completely opposed to these statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u9	Thank you, Minister. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. [[Free]] With priority rights, Minister Babiš, after him with priority rights, President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to confirm - we have no dispute with the Home Secretary at all. Nobody wants to disturb the branches, either. I say, yes, let's keep our services. However, I want to make sure that the český Post does not really have any reserves, which is why I asked him to give me the documents and allow me to get acquainted with the Czech Post, so I can get back to my profession a little bit. And, of course, I'll be interested. Just so you know, because the benchmark and the comparison are important, the Austrian Post, which is on the Vienna Stock Exchange, has an EBITDA of 13.2 % and earns 285 miles a year. EUR. That means 7.8 billion. Crowns. And as is known, Austria is 8.5 miles away. population versus 10,5 in our country. So maybe we should go ask. The Austrian Finance Minister's coming tomorrow, so I'm gonna ask him if we can go to a benchmark. And the German Post is also on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and has an EBITDA Margin of 6.5 percent. So there's no contradiction between Minister Chovanc and me. All I'm saying is, if I'm gonna watch the register, and now somebody's saying, yes, we're gonna have to subsidize it, then I want to make sure there's really no reserves. So we're moving on together. And you can't do any miracles in those few months, but we'll see. We will discuss this, and I think we both have the same goal so that the Czech Post works well and does not lose money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u11	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Volný. After that, Mr Okamura with priority rights, the Minister with priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'll just be a couple of minutes. I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies, within the framework of the debate, to approve a reduction of the time for committee discussions by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u13	Thank you, Mr Volný. I'm registering his proposal. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Okamura. Sorry, František. [[Laudate.]] After him with priority rights, the Minister, after him with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u14	Thank you for the floor. I don't think we're getting along. I am very glad that the public debate in front of the citizens about the Czech Post Office has started. I'm sure the citizens really welcome that. But we didn't get along a bit. I just wanted to give inspiration to think in a direction where the Czech Post can have a good position, where there is potential, and together to look for that potential, so that we can give the Czech Post space how to make better use of the market and economically. The Dawn Movement, of course, wants to preserve all branches of the Czech Post. I myself come from the Zlín Region, and it is very important that they remain in the villages of the post office, as well as CzechPoints. And we're totally up for it. And, of course, we also agree with that, and here, of course, I commend the Minister, what we have been asking for for for years is once again confirmed. To sponsor state companies such as Forests of the Czech Republic, ČEZ, Czech Post, which sponsor, although they are more or less monopolistic state companies, sponsor some sports companies and others, that it is of course necessary to circle around, because I think that the public service has, of course, priority in this respect. That is why I am stressing again that I have given inspiration here, I have not called for any restrictions on the services of the Czech Post. That was exactly the opposite, my idea. I was looking for another space where the Czech Post could function economically well in order to maintain a complete portfolio of services of the Czech Post as well as in the last small villages, so that citizens would have those services there. And I think, differently, about what I reacted to Minister Babiš - when I saw it on TV, it sounded a little different to me. Because first I have to look at cashflow, first I have to look at the management and the like, so I'm glad the management is transparent, but apparently the finance minister doesn't have it in his hand from the start. Then how should we who are opposition MPs have it in our hands? So I am glad that this will be cleared up and that it will be really transparent and that we will learn complete data about the Czech Post administration. And I think we're all heading towards the same goal. To make it work, for citizens to have a service and, if possible, a very long-term service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u15	Thank you to President Okamur. Now with priority rights, Minister Chovanec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u16	One more time, and I think it's the last time today to the Czech Post Office. I wasn't preparing for a discussion about the Czech Post Office. On the other hand, about three months ago, I promised to send you a Czech Post strategy, because I understand that all Members, all MPs, are interested in the development of this state enterprise. That's what happened. Besides, I'd like to say a few more words about it. Just Deutsche Post, the German Post that we all look up to, which is really on the stock market, has invested very well in the past. Its results are not based on the letter market in Germany, but German Post bought DHL. This means that German Post carries out most of its economic success outside Germany and in these subsidiaries it owns. It's not because she gets rich sending letters and packages. Unfortunately, that's just not how it works. Slovak Post pays about 300 miles for universal service. Crowns. At branches of 1500. The Italian State pays for the Italian Post Office. French Post receives a subsidy. Otherwise, we just overslept, ladies and gentlemen! We overslept in the fact that we don't have outsourced branches. Czech Post has outsourced 0.4 percent of branches! German 100 percent! Every branch of a successful German post office, managed by some private partner of the post office, which is why the economic miracle is here. We'll get to him. We need a transitional period for the Czech Post to simply survive. Czech Post employs 33,000 today. employees, has a turnover of 20 billion. and its profit this year is at 300 million. The profit has a downward trend. I'm in favour of looking into economic data. Today I will instruct Director Elkán to send all economic data in a simplified form to all Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic and to senators, so as not to give the impression that the Czech Post is something unknown and secret. So we're gonna send out the data today so you can all meet them. Of course, we send more detailed screenings to the Ministry of Finance according to its needs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u17	Thank you, Home Secretary. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Civic Democratic Party Citizen's Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u18	Just two notes. Comparison with ČD Cargo simply limps. Although a trade union proposal was made last year to deal with state subsidies, we found other instruments and it turns out that the economy just turned around. First of all. I think that comparison limps and is not worth using ČD Cargo in the debate about the Czech Post. There's another market, there's another competition, and it's not that simple. I was already saying that maybe ČD Cargo would have hit it for sure. The effort to grant a subsidy would come across competition laws, etc. But to the Czech Post Office. I think if the government goes in the direction of putting the Czech Post on the stock exchange, that's a good way to go. It's nothing to block, on the contrary, I think we'd welcome it. However, to discuss branches in the villages. Try you who are from the big cities, sometimes ask the people who live there. I have an example of a family where they have to take a vacation to pick up a recommended shipment in their village. This has to do with who operates the branches, and if the village branch is open until 16, 16.30, 15.30, which is quite common hours, at least in the Moravian-Silesian Region, then a person who doesn't work in that village to pick it up has to take a vacation or an unpaid leave. So there's no point in saying strong sentences of the type - or I disagree that the aim is to preserve all existing branches. I think that may be true, but it doesn't have to be. We need to think about those who live there, if it's better for them to have, like, two hours tonight, and I agree, some franchise or some business partner, so that even those who are economically active can go there. The fact that those who are not economically active are supposed to be there in the morning is fine, but those who pay taxes often suffer from it and often have to change their delivery mail to the cities in which they work. So just so that in this debate - although we are very far from the 2014 amendment to the state budget, which, in my opinion, is only a response to what happened, and we personally see it as technical material, but since the debate has already been created, I think that the aim should not be to preserve all existing branches, but to invent effective and well-functioning - and to find business partners to be attractive for those who would provide these services to citizens, because it doesn't really matter to citizens whether it is the Czech Post, s. p. or anyone else. They just want to come when they can pick up their shipment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u19	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik, after whom Minister Chovanec. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we may be a little far from what is written on the board, but the debate on the Czech Post Office is grabbing us almost into conceptual questions, and I think that, in particular, we who live in the countryside have quite different knowledge. And for us - and what we live in a smaller village, the older we are, the worse we are socially, we don't have every car to reach, and now I think of pensioners who are in the countryside, perhaps even a more remote village, so the goal according to the KSČM is to preserve the existing number of branches, neither to give one, because there are people living everywhere who are not economically active and do not often have the ability to drive far away. The second objective, according to our court, is that I have to keep the mail, because every time these discussions go, there is also a debate on privatisation, we must preserve the mail as a strategic enterprise as a state enterprise, virtually. 100% state-owned. We reject all attempts to privatise because, in turn, it is about creating a source of business for citizens, and there will usually be some adverse shift for the citizen - either more expensive, or after all, inefficient branches will close and the citizen will have to arrive somewhere attp. And the third question that we are discussing here is the question of accessibility not only local but also time. I am convinced that there is a need to look for opportunities so that even economically active citizens can sort out their things at the post office after they come home from work. So it's all solvable. And one final point. You know, it compares well, and I am in favour of going to Germany to learn from Austria, how it is possible that there is a profit in the post office, and even quite a solid and decent profit, while in our country it is somewhat different. But we would also have to ask the Němec and Rakušan if the German and Austrian state in the past also created such almost impeccable conditions for competition to the state enterprise, virtually. the local post office, because there was another one, this time private companies that took over some more lucrative or profitable parts of the agenda, and the post office still has a network, sometimes yes, economically less profitable, but the citizens of the available branches. The whole complex of these questions will then answer that perhaps the Czech Post, if it had been better protected by the Czech State in earlier times, could already generate comparable profits with the Austrian or German post. I ask that this question also be examined throughout the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u21	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. With priority rights, the Minister, Mr Laudát after him, Mr Novotný after him. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u22	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. For the last time, really. I want us to go back to discussing laws, and I understand that the topic of the Czech Post is a subject of life. To President Stanjur through you. My colleague, I am not a rigid opponent of competition. I was merely talking about the fact that the Czech Government did not solve the problem of the railway regulator, for which, of course, the European Commission has been squeaking us for a long time and rightly, even if I recall it, we have been tried by the European Court of Justice and I think that we have even been convicted. This means that I was talking at ČD Cargo and at České dráhy about the fact that we should have created a regulator first and only then open the market. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Today we are in a situation when you are talking to rail carriers, for example, that the route between Prague and Ostrava is so overloaded that getting cargo on it is almost impossible or very complicated. So I was talking about the state defending its interests by first setting up a regulator and just opening up the market. Nothing more, nothing less. In the Czech Post we have several solutions and the way most comfortable for citizens of the Czech Republic is simply to declare the Czech Post a body providing public service in the public interest and for services that are loss-making, simply and simply to pay. The current state, which is that the Czech Post is several years in the so-called. the inter-step between a State enterprise and a public limited company. If we do not stop this, for example, the Czech Post cannot dispose of its property, there is a pool of unnecessary properties that could be sold out, to create a fund from which even small branches could be revitalized. We have talked about each of these branches here in the past and the Czech Government has committed itself not to close them. This means that I take it as a government task for my ministry, which is currently to preserve all branches and close them only if there is an agreement with municipalities, i.e. with the municipality, or with the region. That's what a government resolution sounds like, and I'm just following it and I'm just following it. Otherwise I don't want to remind you and I'm not much of a supporter of going back to the past, but I understand that Czech Post is often a moloch and that Czech Post needs to be a puppy in a pond and that Czech Post needs to adapt to its clients. Such a assignment was given a new management and of course it is necessary that the Czech Post should also be opened on Saturday, also sometimes in the afternoon, and we are gradually heading towards this. Czech Post must meet clients primarily. It is a great pity, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, that the interior ministers in the last seven years, who have been ODS, have unfortunately not done so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u23	Mr Laudát is now on the list, followed by Mr Novotný, Mr Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I won't be long. I'm making a motion to reject this presentation at first reading. If we approve such laws, we'll make the state budget a rip-off calendar. I think that even under current legislation, the government has sufficient space for operational steps and changes during the year, and then there are sufficient tools to deal with this. [[12.30 hours]] As far as the post office is concerned, I would just like to remind you that there has been a rather extensive petition by citizens against the abolition of branches in the smallest municipalities. It is another acceleration of decline and extinction, the depopulation of some regions. We, across the political spectrum, have approved the resolution. I don't remember all the points, but the key thing was that we're asking the government to treat the provision of basic services as a public service today, with the fact that, of course, what Minister Chovanec said, outsourcing, and thus seeking the most economical way. But otherwise, in the event of the interference, it's always just another acceleration in the decline and depopulation of those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u25	I thank Mr Laudát. Now, with Mr Faltýnek's factual comment, Mr Dolejš, followed by Mr Novotný. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to ask if we could go back to discussing the laws put forward by the Minister of Finance, and let us discuss the Czech Post at some other meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so that we please do not stick around and focus on the topics on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u27	I thank Mr Faltýnek. With a factual remark, Mr Dolejš. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u28	Thank you. I'll fill in and follow up on the previous speakers. You have noticed that we are adjusting this amendment to the framework set by the 2014 budget. And maybe if you're watching the statistics, you know that filling is a little better than expected. I'm not saying it's because of this government. But this government, when it has some money, of course, wonders where it's going to invest. And surely some of that support for investment growth or other godly purposes is appropriate. Given that the direction of this spending policy is, of course, primarily given at the level of executives, we will retain the joy of declaring it to the government itself. But I think the general logic is obvious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u29	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Novotný has the floor now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'll be brief. Just a few words to the Czech post office from the field. During my six years as Governor, I have called all the mayors of the towns and villages of the Karlovy Vary Region many times and discussed the situation at individual branches with the Czech Post management and especially where there were problems. We have always received answers like "we have been ordered to cancel so many branches" etc. Since Mr. Chovanec is the Minister of the Interior, communication with the Czech Post has improved significantly. There are specific issues being dealt with in cooperation with the mayor, with the county. I can give specific examples such as Drmoule Post at Mariánské Lázně or Munich Post near Karlovy Vary etc. I just wanted to say that things have moved and that they are being dealt with in cooperation with all the parties involved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-004-038.u31	I thank Mr Novotný. And please the Home Secretary not to have fun, because he was praised here, and he might not have heard that he was praised here. [[at ČSSD parliamentary benches]] I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. I note the motion to reject the motion tabled by Mr Laudát. We will therefore vote on the rejection of the proposal. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on the rejection of the proposal, as submitted by Mr Laudát. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 304. 145 Members registered, for 24, against 74. The motion was not accepted. We will now consider the motion for a committee's order for discussion. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft to the Committee on Budgets. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. There's no such proposition. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote on who is in favour of ordering the draft to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 305 vote. Registered 145 Members, 124, against none. The motion was accepted. I also see Mr Volný's proposal to shorten the deadline for discussion by 30 days. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favour of shortening the deadline for a 30-day hearing should raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote 306. 146 Members and Members are registered, for 89, against 1. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, and we have reduced the deadline for discussion to 39 days. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The Minister will not leave us yet, because the next point of our meeting will be
