ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-009-019.u1	19. Proposal by Members of Miroslav Kalousek, Helena Langšádlová, Jan Farský, František Laudát and others for the issue of the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility /German press 24/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 24/1. I ask that Mr Miroslav Kalousek present the proposal as the appellant, while I also ask that Mr Jan Volný, who is the rapporteur for first reading, come to the rapporteur's table. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, please, for the opening statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-009-019.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, the two members of the government, colleagues, paragraph 20, are the implementing law to the constitutional law, which is paragraph 19, and point 21 is the amendment law, i.e. paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 are to this extent integrally linked, and there are references between them that there is no logical sense in discussing them separately, so I would like to suggest that we combine the debate on all these three points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-009-019.u3	This is a procedural proposal, we will decide without debate, in the '98 series vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of merging the debate on paragraphs 19, 20 and 21. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 98 of the 167 present for 145, against no one. The debate has been merged. I will therefore interrupt the points so that we can speak unitedly in the debate. Please, Counselor, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-009-019.u4	Thank you for agreeing to the procedural proposal. I believe that this will contribute to greater efficiency and faster discussion. So let me put forward a proposal that would be published as a financial constitution from the workshop of Members who are signed as petitioners. The reality is that it is from the Ministry of Finance workshop of 96 percent, the 4 percent is the completion of the original draft on the comments of social democracy as the then opposition party from the previous parliamentary term, now government parties. Let me briefly remind some of my colleagues who have come up to this parliamentary term, which means most of this House, of the history of the creation of this constitutional bill. In 2011, as Minister of Finance, I was authorized by the Government to ask all the MPs in this House to set up an expert group dealing with the formulation of the necessary debt brake, which would be incorporated into the rule of law at the level of constitutional law, i.e. the financial constitution. About six months ago, there was a very factual, very effective expert discussion at the Ministry of Finance in the presence of all then MPs and at expert level we reached a consensus that gave hope for the constitutional majority, because the only political force at the then expert table that disagreed was the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. This expert proposal was passed by the government as a government proposal, it was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, and we were waiting for about 240 more days of discussion in the Chamber of Deputies and a search for political consensus. The Committee on Budgets, at the request of social democracy, has interrupted this point several times for several weeks and a political consensus has simply been sought, for it has been declared from all sides that we want to find consensus and that we want to approve the financial constitution. Finally, and please do not submit to any criticisms, the leadership of the strongest political faction in the then Chamber of Deputies - social democracy - has decided that the financial constitution will not be approved during that parliamentary term, and thus, in fact, one-and-a-half-year work, which took place in the last parliamentary term, has come to nothing. Of course, the text did not go to waste, neither did the idea come to nothing, and we, after completing the comments made by colleagues from social democracy during the year and a half, took the liberty of presenting the proposal again, because we believe that there are many good reasons to look for a way to find an agreement that we would have reached the rule of law that was never there, and what is fundamentally lacking - a debt policy against the behaviour of politicians. [[18.30 hours]] The second phase of the financial crisis that the whole of Europe has been through is called the debt crisis of the state. There is either a responsibility to the state's debt crisis against current and future political representations, and as a guarantee of this responsibility, it simply builds up into the constitution, that some behaviour is no longer acceptable, and that when public budgets reach a stage, the brakes and safeguards that politicians are forced to behave a little bit more responsibly. We therefore consider the approval of the financial constitution to be the ultimate expression of budgetary responsibility and accountability to future generations. I have also noted that not only social democracy, but all three coalition parties have signed up to the Czech government's desire to join the fiscal compact at European Union level. And I'll admit I'm very happy about it. When I faced criticism as Minister of Finance, why the Czech government, as one of the two governments throughout the European Union, did not want to join the fiscal compact, it was not easy for me to talk because I am one of the political parties who wants to join the fiscal compact and always wanted it. The government here can rely on the support of the TOP 09. However, little is known and little is said to say that the most important commitment arising from the fiscal compact is the commitment that the country participating in this agreement will adopt a financial institution at the level of national legislation. So declaring that I want to proceed to a fiscal compact and, at the same time, defending the adoption of a financial constitution at national level is logically a contradiction and therefore a verbal declaration without factual proof that I really mean it and that I want to implement such a policy. I am also aware of this, and I fully respect that the Civil Democratic Party is restrained from the fiscal compact, on the other hand, it is probably well to admit that the then programming declaration of the government, the Nečasův government, contained an obligation to present the financial institution precisely at the request of the Civil Democratic Party, and that it certainly does not mean that the general statement does not apply that it wants to be budgetaryly responsible at national level and that it considers it necessary to approve such a standard in the legal order at the level of the constitutional law. Theoretically, when we take our public statements and speeches to the public, there is certainly a constitutional majority of us here richly. We have really worked up the overwhelming majority of the comments made by social democracy. We have, of course, also fulfilled the main objection of the opposition at the time that, in addition to the constitutional law, the implementing law was not submitted. This, I think, was the most annoying to the Members of the time that the constitutional law should have been discussed first, and only then the implementing law. This condition is granted. You have and will discuss all three necessary laws at once in the merged debate, both the constitutional law and the implementing law as well as the logically necessary amendment law, because such a fundamental change in the rule of law will require an adjustment of a number of other laws, in particular Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on the budgetary rules of the Republic. Bands are proposed for how politicians should behave in individual relative state debt levels against GDP. Those bands are 45 to 50, 50 to 55, 55 to 58 and more than 58, including, therefore, the specified brakes and safeguards that the government is obliged to do or what Parliament is obliged to do in such a case. I stress that in the 45-50 zone, according to our proposal, the government is doing nothing but justify the level of government debt and propose a fiscal outlook that should certainly not increase debt dramatically. I also recall that the current amount of sovereign debt, relative, adjusted for the debt reserve, and here, please, this is important, because the amount of government debt is usually reported, including the debt reserve, whereas, in the case of this law, the debt reserve is cleared, so the amount of debt adjusted for the debt reserve - the latest current number, if this has changed in the last two weeks, so I apologize, but the last actual number was 43.6 GDP. So the bands that are designed are the bands that are set very reasonably. And if the government really wants to implement a budgetaryly responsible and austerity policy, as it declares, it cannot be the least problem to meet these bands. However, for the sake of consensus as a petitioner, we can, of course, adjust the bands in any way we look for an agreement. It doesn't have to be 50, it could be 52, it might not be 55, it could be 56 or 54. We can really look for it the way we find the consensus of the constitutional majority. What's unstoppable, and I think we all think it's unstoppable, is that number 60. We really shouldn't go through that. And it is still very far away nominally, but it is a trendy threat. Another condition that, in my view, cannot be regressed from is the often expressed wish that the public budget segment should be removed from this scheme - a segment, such as public health insurance or pension system, has been pulled out of the public budget set. That can't be accepted. In that case, we're getting into a system that's completely dysfunctional. I will remind you of the 1990s when we had a balanced budget, but we had a Consolidation Bank and the Czech Financial Bank outside the monitored balance sheet, and there were public deficits growing in hundreds of billions, only they were not accounted for. This, of course, is not the aim of this draft. So the debt of public budgets and the deficit of public budgets must logically be monitored in a set of all segments, not just in some segments. In other matters, the petitioners are fully prepared to seek an agreement and to look for common amendments that we can adjust to fulfill what we all want according to our declarations - a budgetaryly responsible political scene, a halt to the situation where we are the fastest-indebted economy, and for some of us a factual, not just verbal, accession to fiscal compact. Thank you for your attention and thank you for the unbiased helpfulness with which you will come forward before this draft and the other two.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-009-019.u5	Good evening. Thank you, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-009-019.u6	Mr President, Government, dear colleagues, colleagues. The ex-minister, Mr Kalousek, has presented to him in an exhaustive manner this submitted parliamentary proposal for a constitutional law on budgetary responsibility. There is no doubt that we and our citizens are not pleased with the negative development of our state's debt, which is already in the area of 48% of GDP. Nor are we pleased with a long-term budgeted and reported negative balance of the state budget. There's no doubt about it. The introduction of balanced principles and principles strengthening the transparency and health of public finances into the legal order of the Czech Republic is certainly necessary, not only in view of the need for the transposition of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on the requirements of the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. [[18.40 hours]] This is a major constitutional law with a large impact on activities and many areas and many organisations, including local authorities of cities and municipalities. In my opinion, prior to the start of the approval process, the issue of the new Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility must be discussed in detail, including with representatives of local authorities, the Union of Towns and Municipalities and all the authorities concerned across the political spectrum. The government should play a key role in shaping the state's economic and budgetary policies, as evidenced by Article 42 (2) of the Treaty. 1 The Constitution of the Czech Republic, according to which only the government makes proposals for state budget laws. The government, based on the Chamber of Deputies resulting from recent early elections, should have a much wider scope to comment on the ideas of constitutional anchoring mechanisms ensuring budgetary responsibility and on the various substantive aspects of the relevant legislation. The proposal for this legislation of such a fundamental nature should therefore be prepared by a new government, on the basis of a very detailed expert discussion by standard consultation throughout the ordinary legislative process. Therefore, I cannot agree and I am giving a disagreeable opinion and I propose rejecting this parliamentary proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-009-019.u7	I thank the rapporteur for his first reading, Mr Volný. Now, given the merger of the debate on the next two points, I am interrupting item 19. Getting to the Point
