ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-009-023.u1	23. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China Hong Kong on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings (Hong Kong, 4. 3. 2013) /house print 102/ - first reading I ask the Minister of Justice to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-009-023.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will now present three draft agreements in a row. They all concern the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Special Administrative Area of the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong, on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings, on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and on the transfer of sentenced persons. Given that each of these proposals requires a separate approval procedure, I will present them separately, but that is common, it is one area, namely the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, which we know as Hong Kong. As regards the first agreement between the Czech Republic and Hong Kong on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings, it was signed in Hong Kong 4. 3. 2013. This is a bilateral international agreement negotiated with Hong Kong's Special Administrative Region, not with the People's Republic of China as a whole, and will therefore be valid only in the territory of this area, that is to say in Hong Kong, which has been assigned by the People's Republic of China to negotiate this extradition agreement. Currently, between Hong Kong and the Czech Republic - if you will allow me to use only the short name of Hong Kong - no bilateral extradition treaty has been concluded, so by negotiating this treaty the contractual basis for international judicial cooperation, which traditionally represents all these treaties. This is about international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. The negotiation and implementation of this Agreement shall not require any amendment to the national arrangements. This is enshrined in the new Law on International Judicial Cooperation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of the proposed agreement in question will be notified giving a list of offences for which the transfer may be authorised under the law of the Czech Republic. These are offences for which a sentence of imprisonment or other form of deprivation of liberty may be imposed for at least one year and where the law of both countries so permits. The agreement on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings allows the refusal to issue their own nationals, and therefore there is no need to worry about the extradition of our nationals to Hong Kong. In view of our human rights obligations, which are a little different from those in the PRC and, of course, Hong Kong, this agreement explicitly contains a death penalty clause, and if Hong Kong does not provide sufficient assurance that the death penalty will not be imposed or will not be executed in the event of the release of a specific person to Hong Kong, the Czech Republic can, of course, refuse to issue such a person to Hong Kong. In addition, the agreement allows the person being issued to transmit items which may serve as evidence in criminal proceedings or have been obtained by that person as a result of his criminal activity. The agreement on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings is one of the modern international agreements, which, in addition to the above provisions, always contain further standard arrangements concerning extradition requirements, other documents, the principle of speciality, there is respect for the preliminary link, the request for additional information. All these standard requirements have been met. The implementation of the agreement as well as the other two agreements is within the competence of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, or two resorts, which ensure escorts issued to the Czech Republic, which is carried out pursuant to § 10 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The implementation of the agreement will be linked to financial requirements for the transport of persons transferred from Hong Kong to the Czech Republic, but will be covered by the chapters of those ministries. We assume that these people will not be a lot, or that it will not be linked to increased financial claims on the state budget itself. I recommend the approval of this agreement. After its assessment, I will follow up with you on the proposals for the approval of the other two agreements. I draw their attention to them in this context, in particular, because they are closely linked. This is not only about the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings, but also about mutual legal assistance and the transfer of sentenced persons. However, I am now asking you to give a kind assessment of the first one, this is an agreement on the transfer of persons wanted for criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-009-023.u3	I thank the Minister and I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Kateřina Konečná, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-009-023.u4	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister for her excellent reasoning and recommend that, as well as the Organising Committee, propose for discussion to the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-20-ps2013-007-03-009-023.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have no applications, so I am ending the debate. The Minister and the rapporteur do not want final words, so we can proceed to the vote. It is proposed that this press be directed to the Committee of Foreign Affairs. I'll ask if there's a motion for a commandment to another committee. It's not like that. There's a check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to register again. We will vote on ordering this press to the Foreign Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 54, registered 124, for 121, there was no one against it. This proposal was adopted. I state that we have ordered this press to the Committee of Foreign Affairs. I'm done discussing item 23. [[10.40 hours]] We will continue with paragraph 24, as the Minister has announced.
