ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-005-066.u1	66. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the jurisdictional immunities of States and their assets of 2 December 2004 /German press 195/ - first reading I would ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to present a proposal for the Government of the Czech Republic. [[17,00 hours]] Before the Foreign Minister gets to the table, I'd like to ask the rapporteur... [[Voice off the microphone.]] Oh, so the Minister still has time, because the rapporteur for the first reading Pavel Šrámek is excused. I ask the House to agree with the amendment of the rapporteur, which should become Pavel Plzák for the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore decide on the amendment of the rapporteur in the vote of 97 which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the change of the rapporteur. Who's against it? Thank you. Of the present 150 for 126, versus 1. Mr Pavel Plzák is the rapporteur for the first reading. I therefore now ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to state the United Nations Convention on the jurisdictional immunities of States and their property. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-005-066.u2	I will tell you about the content of this press 195, where it is presented once again to the House for the approval of the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the jurisdictional immunities of States and their property. This is basically an insurance policy against the situation that happened in the Czech Republic in connection with the fact that - if you remember, I believe it was in Vienna - the property of the Czech state was confiscated. This was about the paintings that were borrowed there. This Convention should prevent a similar situation from happening again in the future and thus confiscate their assets between States as a result of some companies having arbitration or litigation with those states. I think that for the Czech Republic, which has experienced this in particular in some cases, it would be very appropriate for us to join in order not to threaten us as the Czech state with the execution of cultural, scientific or property of a state that we are borrowing abroad. Ratification of the Convention will mean that the Czech Republic will be next in a situation that immunity will be granted to such borrowed property, and it will not be possible to repeat the situation that we had around some of the Czech Republic's borrowed paintings in Austria, or I could name some other cases. This is essentially the content of this measure. I think, once again, from the experience we have, that we would avoid the unpleasant situations in which we found ourselves last time. Specifically, it was just a case that we experienced repeatedly on our own. I recommend to the House to discuss this treaty in the House Committees. I suppose her approval here could be a matter of quite broad consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-005-066.u3	Thank you, Secretary of State Lubomír Zaorálek. I'll ask the rapporteur, Pavel Plzák. Before that - well - Mr President, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-005-066.u4	I know nothing's broken. We have one poor minister here. I think that the minimalist turnout on Tuesday afternoon, when we came out to meet - originally there were supposed to be opposition bills, we went to the government, which urgently needs to discuss six points, and we have one single minister here. Of course, he's got the best results, he's got 150 votes out of 152 or colic, I admit it. But it's really not for the state minister present, but for everyone else, that attendance could really get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-005-066.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I can ask the presidents of coalition clubs to agree with their fellow ministers and bring them into the hall. However, I will now give the floor to the rapporteur, Pavel Plzák, to present the news report at first reading. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-005-066.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Member of the Government and fellow Members, I have gone back to my colleague Šrámek, so at the last moment I am rapporteur for this House Press. This is the UN Convention on the jurisdictional immunities of States and their property. This Convention legislatively regulates the fact that states as sovereigns and their assets are immune to the jurisdiction of other States. In essence, the principle of equality of states is applied. This Convention is limited to the regulation of the immunity of States and their assets to the jurisdiction of the authorities of foreign states, but also provides for a taxative list of cases where, in principle, States cannot rely on immunity with regard to the subject matter of the dispute. This Convention was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2004, but so far only 28 States have signed it. The Czech Republic signed the Government in 2006, but with ratification it was decided to wait until a national legal convention was approved, which happened. This regulation essentially applies, and it is Law No. 91/2012 Coll., on Private International Law, which took effect on 1 January 2014. If our Republic ratifys this treaty, it will become the 14th Contracting State. This is also important in order for this Convention to enter into force, because the Contracting States need to be thirty. So we would only become the fifteenth. That is one reason why this convention must be adopted. The second reason is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has already said here, which means that this convention should protect state property. These are the cases where we lend art objects abroad, see the dispute with Liechtenstein about the painting of Limestone or what it was called, and similar cases. I would therefore recommend that we discuss this agreement - I think it has been ordered to the Foreign Committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-17-ps2013-010-05-005-066.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I note that I have no application for a debate in writing. I don't even see an application from the scene, so I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? Probably not. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee, as the rapporteur has said. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the proposal being ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. We will decide in the vote order number 98. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 98. From the present 156 to 129, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee of Foreign Affairs. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. Before we go any further, I'll offer you some apologies that have arrived. An apology from this afternoon's meeting from 16.30 to the end of the day - Mr Matěj Fichtner. Minister Daniel Herman apologises from 16:50 to 19:00, and Mr Gabal apologizes until 16:00. Now let's continue with the point.
