ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 7th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I don't have any information on the spare card yet. I would like to tell you that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Mr Andrle Sylor - working grounds, Mrs Jermanová - working reasons, Mrs Nytrová - health reasons, Mrs Putnová - working reasons, Mr Šarapatka - foreign travel, Mr Štětina - health reasons, Mrs Wernerová - health reasons. From the members of the government they apologize: Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek - foreign trip, Minister Brabec until 16 h for work reasons, Minister Chovanec for health reasons, Minister Jurečka until 16.55 h for work reasons, Minister Němeček for work reasons, Minister Prachař for work reasons and Minister Stropnický from 15 h for work reasons. I will ask you to take your seats in the hall, and I will also ask you to keep your voice down, because it is very difficult to continue this noise. [[It's ringing and waiting for a while.]] If the noise level in the O.R. doesn't decrease, I'll either start calling out the loudspeakers or interrupting the negotiations. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose that we place point 55, this is the current situation in Ukraine and the position of the Government of the Czech Republic, as agreed on Friday 21 March, on today's first point. That point has been interrupted by the second hour, but we should formally vote on its solid inclusion. Fixedly classified point 37, which is printing 47 at third reading, reassign from Friday 28 March to Wednesday 26 March for already firmly classified points, meaning as point 4 of the morning negotiations, and already firmly classified points number 50 and 51, which are prints 89 and 95 from the point of the report, to transfer from Thursday 27 March to Wednesday 26 March for already firmly classified points, meaning as point 5 and point 6 of the morning negotiations. I have a whole series of applications here. We'll do it in writing first. The first application is from Mrs Němcová, who claims to include a new point. Then Mr Blažek will appear. Madame Němcová has the floor. Mr Hašek votes with card number 10. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u2	Hello. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a new item to the agenda for the current meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. That point would bear the name of the Prime Minister's Opinion on the statements of the Minister of Justice concerning the period of World War II, life in Czechoslovakia at the time of the Protectorate. I would point out this point by quoting from an interview provided by the Minister to one medium. The question, "What do you think of the displacement of the German population?" -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u3	I'm very sorry, but I'm really asking for peace. I have no choice but to name those who do not follow and have fun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u4	On the question of a journalist who says, "What do you think of the displacement of the German population?" The Minister answers: "The worst. I understand that it was a reaction to what happened to the Čech before, but it didn't do much in the Protectorate." I think this is a statement that deserves the attention of Members of a free and democratic country, because on many points that we are discussing and concerning the various areas of life of us, our fellow citizens, we are returning to the past, looking for lessons in it, looking for opinions on what has happened, looking for and rubbing awareness of what has been the cause and what has been the consequences of some serious events in our past. If the Minister - and I stress the Minister of Justice, however it may seem to many of you, whether such a statement is made by the Minister of Justice or, for example, by the Minister of the Environment or by any of the members of the Government or by any of Parliament's representatives - so if the Minister of Justice is making such a statement, the Minister of Justice is trying to relativize the interpretation of our history, trying to erase part of our memory, our consciousness, our knowledge of what was actually happening in the former Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia in World War II. If I hear that almost nothing has happened here, then I want to know from the Prime Minister whether he shares this view, whether the Prime Minister or on his behalf the Minister of Justice would have taken part, for example, in a number of acts that we have been remembering all year round. For example, we recall the fates of our Jewish fellow citizens. Who would doubt that nothing happened at all, please let them visit the Pinkasův Synagogue in Prague, where all the names that mean nothing to the Minister on the walls will be read. If anyone has any doubts that this does not concern us, please stand up to those who are still left behind as survivors of our heroes from World War II, I mean on the Western front and those who fought in any unit against the Nazi power, let them stand up against them and tell them that there was nothing going on at that time, let them stand up against all those who died in concentration camps where a number of commemorative acts and representatives of the Chamber of Deputies and governments participate regularly. I therefore expect that if the Prime Minister thinks that this was serious, what was happening here, that it was to erase the citizens of the time from the world map, then Czechoslovakia from the world map, because that was the plan of the Nazi Germany, which the Minister says was not so much, then I would be interested in the position of the Prime Minister, precisely given that he is responsible for his team, he must also bear responsibility for the statements made by individual members, as I have noted in the press the reaction of the Prime Minister, who, for my taste, has not clearly rejected these views. [[14.10 hours]] It is this relativization of our history, which the Minister began and another minister of Prime Minister Sobotka continues, I mean the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, who, in turn, relativizes the period after 1948 and the operation of the then totalitarian communist state, so I am interested in how the Prime Minister stands up to these questions. That is why I propose this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u5	Mr Blažek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u6	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I will also propose a point, it also concerns Minister Válková, but it does not just come from this famous conversation, there is more. So I propose a point that could be called the Prime Minister's opinion on the attempts of Minister of Justice JUDr. Válková politicize the system of prosecutors and justice. Let me start by explaining what I'm going to say, a few quotes from that interview that appeared yesterday and was a little simplified only on the subject of the Protectorate. I consider other things to be more important there, perhaps, and I dare to quote precisely: "There are also very well-known media cases where I think the D.A. should be doing something, and I have no effective leverage to move them. Anyway, I define my competence more widely. I'm sure I'd like to talk to those particular prosecutors who have my doubts about the results of their work. I can also check their management activities." "What's that?" the journalist asks. "Checking how they manage the funds they have committed, whether the contracts they have concluded are in order, whether they comply with the Ministry's internal instructions, etc." Or to step on their heels?" Says the journalist. "Yes, to step on my heels in the sense that I will use my full competence. But I don't like it, I'd rather discuss it with them in a matter of fact, so I could tell them in some cases, "You could give it priority here and be more active." And I think the last quote -- sorry, I'm already underlined by the protectorate -- I'm not going to talk about that. Last week I was talking here about Hana Marvanová's performance on Václav Moravec, where I noticed one sentence that she also said there - that it is necessary to look at the regional prosecutors' offices that exist. Let me say that so many statements to the justice address in this sense, that is, an attempt to influence them in their activities, has not been made since 1989. If I were to rephrase the statement "state as a company," this is where justice is planned as a kindergarten. There will be good, but at the same time strict, all-knowing teachers Hanička and Helenka, and who will be angry, he will not be punished directly for doing or not doing anything, but he will check the box to see if his slippers and shirt are aligned in place, as everyone should. When I see colleagues from the ČSSD smiling, I will freely show you what it means to rush into the regional prosecutor's office and what media justice means, as Hana Marvanová put it. This means the following: The local party press called Mlada Fronta Today, which, in the long run together with the antique activists, draws attention to various possible unfair negotiations that take place in one or the other region, in one or the other city, and the prosecutor's office, because they are often completely devoid of evidence, so they do not deal with these things. But now the teacher Hanička will come and say: "If you don't investigate, and especially if you don't share it with the party press of the Young Front Today, so that we can discredit those people in the regions and cities because there is an election coming up, we may be able to take your economic resources away, maybe we can reach out to your salaries, and we will totally calmly scandal you, because the media are mostly on our side." And while once, if any predecessor has said a thousandth of what the Minister has said since 1989, there will be a huge wave of protests that are happening from politics to justice, then this time - and I don't even have to ask what it is - there is nothing going on in the media and other important things that are being discussed in those media. Prime Minister, according to our Constitution, the Ministry of Justice has no responsibility for the conduct of justice against this House, but the government has it. I would very much like to know your position, taking into account that your party, unlike other parties, has more than a hundred years of history and defended fundamental liberal rights even during the period of the contemptuous Protectorate, to comment on how the Minister of your Government is expressing his views on justice, what his plans for justice and how he is expressing how well we lived here under the German Protectorate. Let me give you one last quote. Like Hana Marvanová, she will say the simple sentence "The District Attorney's Office doesn't work, we have to look at them," the Minister will calmly say the sentence "Today's justice authorities are often not free of corruption." At the same time, he says he wants to restore the trust of the citizens of this state to justice. So they're all stealing, corrupting, and the Secretary of State by taking this flat-rate, with no proof, without a single document, throwing them in the same bag, so he's gonna gain their trust? Prime Minister, do it before it's too late. There was one side that was once strong, leaving some things to be, and it's not that strong anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u7	Firstly, I draw attention to the fact that it is not possible to make factual remarks because we are not in the debate. Now I have three applications with priority rights. It is President Faltýnek, Minister Válková and President ODS Fiala. In that order, they volunteered. I'll ask President Faltýnek if she'll give the secretary some room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u8	[[He's talking from a bench without a microphone.]] Of course, I have a motion for a meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u9	Okay. So please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. And if President Fiala wants to speak on this matter too, President Faltýnek will also give him room. [[He also has a proposal.]] Very well, then President Faltýnek will be prepared, then President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to use this option to correct some interpretations that I hear here. First of all, to a case that my predecessor had absolutely falsely formulated, how well it was living under the protectorate. Of course, I didn't say anything like that in the sense of the word. When the statement, which was published in the really short version, sounded that the territory - the territory was not there, unfortunately - the protectorate didn't do much, I meant really territoriality. I don't think anyone who knows me can ever doubt that I would never be indifferent to her and I would never make a single victim easier, whether it was a Czech, German, Chinese, American, Vietnamese victim. Death is always the worst thing that can happen, especially when it happens in the course of a war. I absolutely cannot imagine myself or my family, that in any way in the past, in the present and dare to say in the future, it would diminish the status and fate of the victims or survivors of the victims of World War II in the territory of the Protectorate. Unfortunately, when I said it naively and recklessly, I thought everyone would understand that even here it was a comparison of the Protectorate as territorial territory, through which there was no war front, nor were there war conflicts like in the Baltics, in the former Soviet Union or in Poland. So I take it as an attack by the opposition, as an attempt to take away the problems that we are dealing with and which are the legacy of the opposition, to the problems that I would call quasi-problems. I have now had a press conference, and not one question from the media has come up on this issue since I think our media are intelligent, they know me for a long time, they know that I am, for example, a co-author of the law on victims of crimes, let alone to make light of any victims. [[14.20 hours]] Maybe you can blame me for not being so sophisticated and experienced yet, and I can't use all the ingenuity you're so happy to use, you opposition that's been here for so many years and whose legacy we've now gotten, and I'm trying to deal with it. The fact that I'm mapping certain boundaries that former Minister Blažek here so funnyly called interference by unauthorized interference with the operation of independent justice is perfectly logical, because they are mostly the remains of what you left us. So suspicions of corruption, long criminal cases, or cases where the judge of the city court, who condemns the criminal case of Opencard to the guilty, says that the real potential perpetrators are, unfortunately, not here, or are not worth taking my word for it again. So to sum it up in relation to the protectorate, I apologized yesterday - I refer to the press release - for apparently a clumsy statement or statement that was taken out of the context of the context that I am now putting to the right measure, could have raised doubts in some people, and apparently raised doubts, as I mean. So I mean it the way I say it. I don't care if it's the death of a Čech, Němec, Vietnamec, Číňan or Američan. In any case, it's always death, it's always reprehensible. And double reprehensible, if that's what happened during the war. So I apologize to the victims and the survivors if my statement was understood in this way. I will never let go of anything that I will not authorize in advance, because it is clear that I would also add what I did not say, for example, during the interview, so that it becomes quite clear that it was the territory of the Protectorate and that it was - and I meant by comparison with the territory of other states, which really suffered more than the Czech Republic by the war operations that took place there, but I did not mean by any means the victims. The first point. The second point in the case of justice and corruption. You know, I suppose when I talk to a server like Echo24, so that I can afford to be a little more popular, and if I even know who is funding the server, from what sources, how and how the interview that I was presented to me and which I almost refused for a month, but then I said that I would still provide it as an interview that would focus on professional matters and priorities of the Justice Department, and then during the conversation that lasted an hour of twenty minutes, after a day in Parliament, the main focus was on questions about Mr Babiš, his moral integrity, what he was doing in the 1990s, specific cases that I had no idea of, and then on my family, my opinion on the move - so even this was very incorrect. And as part of this conversation, I have said in general: corruption in justice, I receive various anonymous announcements, we generally know what trust in the justice and impartiality of our justice looks like, that in this sense I will use all my legal instruments to bring to us what the opposition has handed over and what it is now pointing out and pointing out, in the shortest possible time, to remove it in the most just and legal way. We're lucky there are more of us in the coalition than there are of you who have ruined what you could.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u11	So now I have one, two, three, four, five priority rights. So I guess I'll apply them the way those applications were filed. So, Mr. Faltýnek. Mr President, you have the floor because you signed up with priority rights first. After you, the President of the Fiala, then the President of the Stanjura Club, then the President of Kalousek and Minister Herman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be taking part in this discussion, I assume that perhaps Vice-President of our club, colleague Vondráček, will comment on this. I have applied to amend the agenda for our meeting, namely by allowing myself, in agreement with the Minister of Defence, to apply for a firm inclusion of these items in our programme. In particular, paragraph 38, third reading of the Government Bill amending Law No. 170 on war veterans, House press 32, then item number 50, Government decision on flights and transits of armed forces of other states through the territory of the Czech Republic in 2014, print 89, and point 51, Information on military exercises of units and crews of the Czech Army with foreign partners, print number 95, namely on Wednesday 26 March morning after already fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u13	So, Mr President, it follows from the conclusions of the Gremia that it is already proposed to include points 50 and 51 in precisely the time period where you propose it, so I would make your proposal a minor modification of that and I would suggest that we include paragraph 38 as point 7 after the two points that have already been proposed. Okay. Mr. Chairman of the Fiala, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must return to the remarks made by Minister Válková and to the justification given here. I really don't understand, but I don't see how anyone could have applauded after her performance. Madam Secretary, I didn't understand your explanation at all, the whole comparison between the territory of the Protectorate and the protectorate, the fact that nothing happened here, or less, compared to other countries, all that you've been saying here is really a historical nonsense. I'm offering to explain to you, as a historian, what really happened in the territory of the Protectorate, and then you'd be ashamed to say such things and repeat them. And what I consider - I apologize for the word - is what I consider really very rude is that instead of explaining your statements, if any. She apologized for them, so you're attacking the opposition in a way that's unacceptable to me. I'm telling you for myself, I haven't been here in years, I've gone into politics at the same time as you. You don't have the right to throw dirt at other people when you make huge political mistakes. I call on you, on the basis of a statement about the Protectorate and other statements that my colleagues have made to you, to consider your remaining in office as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u15	President Stanjura, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. I only read the interview yesterday after the media responses, read the secretary's press release from yesterday, which she said was an apology, and I listened carefully to her performance tonight. And I really don't understand how you, co-workers and co-workers, could have applauded that. Let's start with the territory. Compare the territory of the Czechoslovak Republic and the territory of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia and answer immediately whether something has happened or not. First of all. And secondly, in yesterday's press release, which Minister Válková calls an apology, as she says today that there was little in the territory of the former Czechoslovak Republic, in the territory of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. Few war events and few casualties. She relativizes it by comparing it to others, but that's not an excuse. That's just not an excuse. [[14.30 hours]] Three hundred thousand casualties are scarce. So how much is enough to say it's comparable to another country? And don't be mad at me, relativizing the victims in a war conflict isn't appropriate either, or comparing. Someone started a war. Someone waged a totalitarian war and wanted to destroy entire nations, including the Czech nation, and someone defended themselves with a weapon in hand. And you want to compare the victims on both sides? You can't be serious! And you're applauding this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u17	Chairman Kalousek. After him, Minister Herman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I made a very hard choice on behalf of the TOP 09 against, in my opinion, a scandalous statement that should never be heard in public debate, the less so from the Minister of the Czech Government. However, I felt that something that was at least presented as an apology could be closed and that we do not have to deal with it today. However, after the speech of the Minister The Válková don't really think so. I don't know what was more scandalous now. Whether what was said in the conversation with Daniel Kaiser or what was said now. I believe that what has just been said has not been taken out of context and has not been caused by hostile conversations. Something absolutely outrageous was said: "I, of course, regret all human sacrifices, but I covered it from a territorial point of view. " This territory of the thousand-year-old Czech state, the territory of the free Czechoslovak Republic was occupied in the most aggressive way possible, "but it didn't do much here" believes the Minister of Justice of the Government of the Czech Republic. Since he is the Minister of Justice of the Government of the Czech Republic and because the Prime Minister is responsible for the Ministers of the Government, I believe that it is almost impossible for this House to hear the Prime Minister's clear position on these issues in the debate. What the government thinks, what happened to this territory, and whether the victim here was too little or too much. But in a proper debate, in which all Members will be able to express themselves, and not only those who are equipped with a priority right. As we know, maybe it bothers Mr. Komárek terribly. I would really like everyone to be able to comment, so I would like to support the ODS colleagues' proposal to include this as a point at this House meeting. This is not just about the statement made by Minister Válková. This also applies to the fact that the statement was shielded by the First Vice-President of the Government, that the statement was shielded by the Chairman of the ANO movement, that none of the ANO movement was distancing itself from the Minister's statement. We have every reason to believe that what she presented and presents to the Minister, what she said here today in this place, and no one here can argue that it was taken out of context and that it was caused by an unfriendly conversation, is the position of the ANO movement, which is the second strongest faction in this House and the government party. This is a serious matter! Not only from the point of view of the history of the Czech and Czechoslovak Republics, this is especially a serious matter in terms of the future and concerns about our future! And it does not just concern the Minister's statement and the fact that the President of the ANO movement and essentially the movement itself have shielded these statements. This also applies to completely open threats made yesterday by the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. The fact that, in answer to the question, the President and Minister Babiš attacked a free medium in a way that I think none of us remembers, that is noteworthy, but I think it is a matter of the media that the media has the power to defend themselves against such attacks if they want and are not afraid. The attack was conducted within a rather long and well-known strategy - I'll buy someone, intimidate someone. If some journalists buy themselves and some are intimidated, they'll probably Babiš away with it in public. That really depends on the press. But what he shouldn't get away with, and especially the Prime Minister shouldn't get away with it, was an obvious threat that anyone who wouldn't be servile enough to the Minister of Finance could count on the IRS. That was quite clear, quite openly. And the Prime Minister is responsible for his ministers. I think that, once again, in a debate where we can all express ourselves, it should be said whether the Prime Minister agrees with the statement he stood next to and heard, and how he wants to ensure that the significant repressive and control powers of his ministers are not abused. I therefore very much support the proposal tabled by Mrs Němcová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u19	Minister Herman has the floor. After him, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u20	Mr President, fellow Members, unlike you, I am not only dependent on the news from the media because I was with Professor Válková last week just before the interview. It was late in the evening, when we were done here, we had a meeting in my office. I know it was a very stressful situation, and the professor asked the journalist here if it was possible to postpone the conversation. I couldn't do it for time reasons. Of course, we are all responsible for what we do, what we say, but I also know that the Professor really did not mean at all any relativisation of what was happening in our territory during World War II. Please, I think you know my family history. I come from a family that lost many members at the time of the so-called final solution. My relatives are on the walls of the mentioned Pinkasův Synagogue. I would never at least approve of any relativization of the crimes of Nazism. And I think that we need to work in this field in the spirit of reconciliation. Let us not abuse this issue on populist and cheap attitudes. I'm begging you. The professor didn't mean anything like that, and the media shortcut, and we all know it, sometimes she can make a different impression than we thought. I know a lot about this, and I really ask you not to abuse this fragile subject on such populist attitudes, because it is not good. It is necessary to work in the spirit of reconciliation, friendship and tolerance, and what is said here is not in this spirit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u21	Vice-President Filip. After him, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of discussing this point, but what has been said by some colleagues has led me to extend the name of the point. As a relativization of what took place here between 1938 and 1945, I also take the negotiations that are conducted by various representatives, including government officials with the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft. I was moved to do this performance by my colleague, Mr. Fiala. He was the first to receive Bernd Posselt in Brno in 1991 and celebrate him here. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] I believe that this point should be extended precisely by the way in which representatives of the Czech Government deal with the civic association of the so-called Sudeten German exiles. Because that's what insults me most of all! Of course, I want our comments to be consistent with what our Kateřina Konečná wrote as an opinion of the KSČM on the performance of Professor Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u23	Now, President Kalousek. Then Chairman Fiala. Just to be clear, Vice-President Filip proposes to extend the point proposed by Mrs Němcová, but she would have to agree with that. I'm asking if he's okay with it. They disagree, which means I take that as a proposal for a new point on the part of Vice-President Filip, so we will vote on two different issues. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u24	I can't not respond to Minister Herman's performance. Yes, a media shortcut, we all have some experience with it, it can really go somewhere. That's why we didn't think we had to deal with this at today's meeting. But the media shortcut couldn't postpone the speech made by the secretary here. And if you stand up for him, Minister, then you identify with him, and if you identify with him, I feel deeply sorry for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u25	Chairman of the Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I was amused by the remark made by the Vice-President of the House of Filip, so just to clarify what was going on. In 1991, I don't even know if it was 1991, in Brno I met a Member of the European Parliament for CSU Otto Habsburk, who was then assisted by a Bernd Poselt. That's all, and that's the whole background of the story you mentioned here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u27	With priority rights, Minister Jourová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u28	Mr President, fellow Members, I feel obliged to stand up for my colleague, Helena Válková, not only for the club of the ANO movement, but also for the government that I am a member of. A media shortcut is something that can destroy a person, something that can't be predicted, something that may not be prevented. I have known Helena Válková for quite a while and not for a second, even when I read the statements that I suppose have been shortened, I would not have expected and assumed that she would in some way express herself with respect for the victims of any war. So I believe that you, who understand that there is some kind of hysteria in this political struggle, will not be fooled by this and will approach this matter from some human point of view, and that especially you who know Helena Válková, I believe you will be on her side. At least I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u29	President Kalousek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u30	I want to make sure we understand each other, which is why I dare to perform again. Why we support Mrs Němcová's proposal is not the fact that an unfortunate statement has been made in the media, for which perhaps an apology has been made. We think the statement is scandalous, but we thought it was closed. The reason why we support Mrs Němcová's proposal is the speech by Minister Válková here, where, as she said, she has set the matter straight - and has set it right without any media pressure, without any hostile conversation, and certainly nothing has been taken out of the context. It was said that from the point of view of territoriality there was nothing so much going on in the Protectorate. Please, it may now be said that I have ripped it out of context, but what has been said has been said on the sound record and we have all seen the Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic speak of her free will here, which, in my opinion, no constitutional official of the Czech Republic should simply make public, because otherwise it is a scandal. And I believe that we are simply to have a parliamentary debate on this. Once again, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, as a person responsible for the entire government, is to say again, so that we know whether or not the government identifies with these statements that have been made here today. To know whether the government identifies itself with the fact that it is openly threatened by anyone who is not servile enough, that I will send an IRS to him if I am a finance minister and if I have the IRS subordinates. The Prime Minister should be able to answer that, too, and the Chamber of Deputies should be able to give their opinion on this. Of course, colleagues, you have every right to vote against the inclusion of this point, but if you do not include that point, there is only one explanation: You identify with those statements and that attitude, and it is the policy of the Government of the Czech Republic, and it will be necessary to count on this policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u31	Madam Secretary Válková has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u32	Mr President, I did not get provoked right now, but I think, last week, Mr Kalousek said to you that he did not understand me when I spoke about the amendment in connection with the costs of the backlash disputes for the recovery of claims of up to CZK 10,000, so now I do not understand him at all, but I absolutely do not understand him, because I was here trying to explain that my statement was misinterpreted and that it was not about the victims, and I said this comparison here, so I am really either as naive as he said at the time that he was naive or stupid, so I am either so stupid and naive that I did not understand him, but I would ask him to explain to us what he was so infuriating at my performance, because here he then raises an atmosphere that does not belong to the Chamber of Deputies. It's not constructive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u33	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u34	Thank you. It happens, Madam Secretary, that people don't understand each other. I remember actually asking you for some résumé last week, and you, for that, thank you once again, spoke out and in two sentences and very precisely said what was going on in your performance. And I understood that. That is all Minister Němcová asks in her proposal and I in my support. So let's explain it. If we don't want to explain it and we don't want to debate it, it's not constructive. Constructive is a decent request for the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this, so that there is no doubt that we did not understand each other. But that must be the point placed and opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u35	That was the last application with priority rights. I will now return to the written applications for the agenda. Mrs Havlová has the floor. Mr Votava will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u36	Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, I would like to propose the inclusion of a new item on the agenda of tomorrow's House of Deputies, as the first item entitled Information on Government Accession to the Fiscal Pact. At its meeting yesterday, the government decided on access to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in Economic and Monetary Union, in short, on accession to the fiscal pact. Today we will be discussing the position of the Chamber of Deputies on Ukraine as the first item. I do not want to question this topic at all, but the subject of the fiscal pact, I want to point out that it is very important for us and all citizens of the Czech Republic. About a month ago, I submitted a written interview to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to the Minister of Finance, to obtain detailed information about this treaty, and to this day I did not receive any reply. The conditions are not simple at all and in many ways very unclear. The agreement also contains very serious provisions which, in my opinion, are not known at all. A contract, for example. states that the public finances of all signatory countries are balanced or in surplus. I would very much like to know which countries are fulfilling this primary rule. In the contract I am surprised by the very vague wording, e.g. the point is that countries may deviate from balanced budgets, but only in exceptional circumstances. [[14.50 hours]] However, it is unclear what such exceptional circumstances mean and who will decide that they have occurred. Will it be Brusel, or will it be us? As a rule, states are to implement contracts into their legal order. That is why I would also like to know how many countries have actually done this and which have stood up to it, the people, and what sanctions the European Union has approved against them. I would also like to remind you that the Council of the European Union and the European Commission are to supervise compliance with the pact. How, then, will such a check take place? Will the Department of Finance be riding Brussels commissioners, officials, and looking under our minister's fingers? Or what can I imagine under such a resolution? It is also important that the European Court of Justice may fine if a State fails to comply with the agreement. Has anyone stood before this court? Have any fines already been granted, and to what extent? Or is everyone really that exemplary? Is this a formal contract, or is it really an important treaty? I have outlined a few questions that are linked to the adoption of the fiscal pact. I understand that I am a little ahead of myself for some of you, but I think it is such an important topic that the government and the Czech public should tell us what the fiscal pact for the treaty is, what we are going to vote on next. The information that should fall on this point should launch a public debate on whether or not we will actually accept this pact. The information of both Members and the public must therefore be absolutely maximum. I would like the government to explain its Eurohujera password to us and citizens as quickly as possible. We are not forced to accept the pact. I said, "Why and why now?" Why are such important treaties approved as an amendment to the Government's conduct? It impresses me that this does not follow the economic interests of the Czech Republic, but rather takes place points for the election campaign. I ask you to explain to us what's behind all this. I certainly do not doubt that we should be fiscally responsible, but why should the European Union dictate this to us again? Why do we have to get back under our control, why do we surrender our sovereignty to Brussels? I do not understand why we should accept this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u37	Mr Votava, Mr Velebný will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u38	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, government. I would like to propose the elimination of paragraph 32, which is press 123, from the agenda of this meeting. This is a treaty to prevent double taxation between the Czech Republic and Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u39	Thank you. Mr. Velebný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u40	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the programme for tomorrow morning, so that paragraph 41, House press 99, energy law, is placed as the fourth point in the morning. In the event that this is not accepted, I beg you to vote that we will still be able to vote on this bill after 14 o'clock tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u41	Well, we already have seven points designed there, so it could be point 8 if you accept it. [[Ambassador Velebný nods to consent.]] Okay. And if necessary, we would, of course, vote at the appropriate time on a possible vote on third readings and afternoons. So we're going to vote as point 8. The last person to sign up is Mr. Kolovratník. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, Members and Members, I am here for the Election Commission. I'll remind you that last week we started setting up an investigation committee for the Opencard case. And if we want to set up this committee, including the President, at this meeting today and tomorrow, we must implement its provisions and elect its members. At 13:00 today, the Commission discussed proposals for members of the Commission. He has his resolution number 47. At this point, I would like to ask you to put the vote on composition, namely on the proposal for the election of the members of the Opencard Committee of Investigation, on this afternoon as the second point after the point of Ukraine, i.e. after item 55. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u43	Thank you. And that was the last application for the agenda. I'm just gonna read the apologies real quick. Firstly, Mr Štětina cancels his apology and is present, Mr Adámek apologises from 15.30 for work reasons and Mr. Tejc apologizes from 15 to 16.30 for work reasons. That's an apology. And if there are no more applications for the agenda, we will deal with individual proposals by voting. In the first vote, we would vote on what the House leadership proposed, i.e. start point 55 and firmly include points 37, 50 and 51. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 68, registered is 185, for 168, against was no one. This proposal was adopted. We will therefore now focus on the individual proposals as they have been made. Mrs Němcová wants to place a new point, which is the Prime Minister's opinion on the statements of the Minister of Justice on the situation in Czechoslovakia at the time of the Protectorate. It asks as a second point, i.e. after the point of Ukraine. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking... [[Objection from the diaper.]] Excuse me, I declare this vote misguided. I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up again. [[It's happening.]] I'll start the vote. I ask who agrees with Mrs Němcová's proposal. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 70, registered is 174, for 72, against 53. This proposal has not been adopted. Minister Stropnický... It indicates he couldn't vote. I'm going to ask you if you want to speak for the log and announce it, or whether you want to question the vote, Mr. Secretary... I'm asking if you want to speak for the tape screen, or if you wish us to vote again. [[Minister Stropnický responds outside the microphone directly to President Hamáčka.]] So only for the tape screen: Minister Stropnický, although he wanted to vote, could not, because his voting device did not work and does not question the vote. [[A technician is coming to the Minister Stropnický's voting facility.]] Since it's still a problem, I'm gonna check you out one more time. Please sign up again. Is it working for the minister yet? Looks like it's okay. Mr. Chairman Kováčik wants to get off. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, ma'am and gentlemen, I remember the time when, even if somebody was misinterpreting the questioning of the vote or the announcement for the screen recording, I don't want to look at the right - a problem has been made. I would ask that the fact that if anyone has a problem with the vote be held, let him go and tell the House himself what he means. Let us not interpret each other in this regard either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u45	No one is reporting, we will continue with another vote, which is Mr Blažek's proposal, which wants to include a new item in the Prime Minister's opinion on attempts by the Minister of Justice to politicize the system of prosecutors and justice. Where do you want to put it, Mr. Ambassador? [[Member Blazek off the microphone: as a second point.]] As a second point today, yes. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with Mr Blažek's proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 71, registered 180, for 63, versus 67. This proposal has not been adopted. [[15.00 hours]] After a slight modification, President Faltýnek proposed that paragraph 38, print 32, be placed on the centre as the seventh point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 72. Registered 182, for 169, no one opposed. This proposal was adopted. Vice-President Filip also wanted a new point, which I will try to formulate: the Prime Minister's information on the talks of government members with representatives of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft. Where do you wish to place it, Mr Vice-President? Tomorrow afternoon, okay. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 73, registered is 181, for 36, versus 104. This proposal was not accepted either. Mrs Havlová, a new item Information on Government accession to the fiscal pact on Wednesday 26th as a first item. We've already got seven in there. But okay, I'll take the vote and see what happens. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the government's information on accession to the fiscal pact being the first point tomorrow. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 74. Registered 181, 79, versus 71. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Votava, eliminate paragraph 32, press 123, contract with Kosov. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees that this press be eliminated, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 75, registered 182, for 131, against 31, this proposal has been adopted and the item has been deleted. Mr Velebný, the Energy Act, which is paragraph 41, as the eighth point tomorrow morning. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 76. Registered 183, 113, versus 40. This proposal was adopted. The last is Mr Kolovratník's proposal that we place a new point as a second point after paragraph 55 today, and that is the proposal for the election of the members of the committee of inquiry to the Opencard. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 77. It's logged in 183, for 170, versus 1. This proposal has also been adopted. I ask if all the proposals have been voted on as they have been made. I see no objection, and I see a request for a speech from President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u46	Just for the tape screen, without questioning the vote. I voted no in the 75 vote, and I have a yes in the high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u47	I will ask Mr Kádner if this is also a vote? Okay. Mr. Laudát, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this does not fit in the agenda. I didn't want to put in any extra points, I've had enough here. However, I have noted the remarks made by the Minister of Finance Babiš in the direction of...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-25-ps2013-007-05-000-999.u49	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I don't know now, it's not a debate. [[Member Laudat wants to make a technical remark.]] Technical isn't even possible. If you don't have the right to vote or you don't want to vote, I can't let you talk. I'm sorry. Then we'll proceed with point number.
