ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say honourable Members of the Government, but I do not see any member of the Government here, so I will ask the president of coalition clubs to ensure that at least one minister is present and for two minutes I will interrupt the meeting. [[He's waiting for the arrival of one of the ministers for a while. Here comes Minister Chovanec.]] Since the Home Secretary is present in the hall, I guess we can continue. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and tell me who's asking for a replacement card. So far, I have information that Mrs Konečná votes with card number 9. I tell you that the following colleagues have asked for an apology: Mr Adámek - working grounds, Vice-President Bartošek from the afternoon hearing - working grounds, Mr Benda - personal reasons, Mr Beznoska - foreign travel, Mr Koskuba - working grounds, Mr Gabal from the morning hearing - working grounds, Mr Gabrhel - working grounds, Mr Holík - Vyzula grounds, Mrs Chalánková from 10.30 to the end of the sitting - working reasons, Mr Novotný Josef - working grounds, Mr Novotný Martin - Seďa grounds, Member Korte from 13 hours to 13 hours - working grounds, Mrs Pastuchová - working grounds, Mrs Lorencová - working grounds, Mr Mackovík from 10.30 to the end of the sitting - working grounds - working grounds, Mr Novotný Josef - working grounds, Mr Novotný Martin - working grounds - working grounds, Member of Parliament - Votava Vozka, from 18 hours abroad - working grounds, Mrs Šežáková from 13 hours - working grounds, Mr Šrámek from 13 to 19 hours - working grounds - working grounds, Member - working Zemánek, Mr Pletich - working grounds, Member - working Šarapatka - working grounds - working grounds, Member Pleticha - working Plzák - working place - working grounds, Member - Pražák grounds, Mr Pletch - working ground, Mr Pletch - working ground, Mr Plet - working place - working place - working place - working place - working place - Wernerová place - working place - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours, Member, Mr Jakubčík. They apologize from the members of the government: Vice Prime Minister Babiš - foreign travel, Minister Brabec from the morning meeting - working reasons, Minister Herman within 12 hours - working reasons, Minister Marksová - foreign travel, Minister Mládek - foreign travel, Minister Němeček - foreign travel, Minister Prachař - working reasons, Minister Stropnickýý from the morning meeting - working reasons, Minister Válková within 13 hours - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek - foreign travel. I would now like to inform you that the Organising Committee yesterday, that is to say on 18 June, discussed the proposals of the Chamber of Deputies to lend or award state honours which have been delivered to you as document 974, and in this context I propose to include this House document in the agenda of this meeting. I propose his solid inclusion today as the second point after written intercessions, which is after paragraph 92, the Ombudsman's report. I can still see President Sklenák on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-000-999.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to propose a firm inclusion of three third readings for tomorrow. First item 82, House press 175, on pension insurance. As second point 80, the House press 100, about employees' accident insurance. As the third point 79, House press 82, on providing child care in a children's group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-000-999.u3	Yes. This is President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-000-999.u4	Hello. It is not for the draft agenda, but I have a request, Mr President, directly to you, if you could increase your authority among committee chairmen. There's the committee again, now, at these moments. Our members on the committee are here, so they can't be on the committee. I talk about it every meeting, every week, over and over again. This time it's a committee on European affairs so I don't speak anonymously. In my opinion, it is not possible for them - either as we put it - to just listen to you. Our committee chairmen, like we have plenty - one - they just don't do it. Your committee chairmen do it all the time, all the time, all the time. I know you're trying, but try to raise authority, maybe even a voice, to them so they don't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-000-999.u5	Yes, I have sent a letter to all committee chairmen where I have pointed out that it is not possible for committees to meet at the time of the plenary, so I will send a letter once more to President Benešík and we will see what they can do about it. I'll try to come up with another appeal, if necessary. But I simply agree with you, it is not possible for committees to sit during the plenary, unless there is some absolutely extraordinary thing going on at the piano, so standard committee meetings at this time simply are not possible. Therefore, no one is logged on to the agenda. First of all, I would have put to the vote on the proposal that I read from the Presidency, which means a new point and its firm classification as the second point after the written intercessions, those are the state honours. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 127, registered is 109, for 100, against 1. This proposal was adopted. Now, President Sklenák - firmly rank tomorrow as points 1 to 3 of points 82, 80 and 79, all three are the third reading from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour and agrees with this firm assignment to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 128, registered 111, for 102, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 108, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Then we would focus on the fixed points. We'll discuss paragraph 109 this afternoon, which is oral questioning. I would like to remind you that applications for oral interviews can be submitted by 11 no later than and from 11.30 they will be drawn. Opening point
