ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u1	136. Government proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017 /house print 348/ The Minister of Defence is ready to present this press under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, what is the aim of this proposal? The aim is to respond to negative developments in the safety environment. The proposed mandate covers a two-year period, as has already been said, for the years 2015 and 2016, with a view to 2017. This solution corresponds to the practice established in recent years. In the light of the negative development of the safety environment and the resulting need for flexibility and preparedness, the draft mandate includes a traditional approach and a new regional approach. Traditionally, the mandate includes commitment to specific operations in specific countries, including the Balkans and North Africa, and commitment to the forces of NATO's rapid response and EU combat groups. A regional approach enabling deployment in regions key to our security within possible future NATO, EU or UN missions. The purpose of the regional approach, namely paragraphs 4 and 5 of the proposed resolution, is to create conditions for increasing the readiness of the Czech Army to deploy forces in key regions in the event of a sudden crisis. The regional approach is used in the draft mandate for possible deployment in the Middle East, North Africa and Sahel. This is an extremely unstable and risky area located in the immediate vicinity of Europe. The development there has a strong negative impact on our safety. To a lesser extent, the regional approach is also proposed for the Balkans. The regional approach will determine in advance the political assignment of our armed forces and will enable them to be systematically prepared for deployment in possible new operations in defined crisis regions. In an increasingly deteriorating security environment, we will further strengthen our readiness to participate quickly and effectively in the operations of the international organisations that we are a member of. If the mandate is approved, it will allow the government to declare in due time the Czech Republic's readiness to contribute to NATO, EU or UN operations. The purpose and constraints of the regional approach. The regional approach is, of course, limited by clear constraints, and this is: The government always decides to deploy the new operation, then immediately informs the two chambers of Parliament. The deployment is limited in number and geographical terms in the proposed mandate. It will always be multilateral operations within the relevant international NATO, EU, UN organisations. In order to comply with Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 44 (?) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 Where the operation is not covered by paragraphs 4 (a) to (c) of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013: 43 The Constitution, the Government shall, without delay before posting, request the two chambers of Parliament for a mandate to participate in a specific operation. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. 5 without the consent of the countries in whose territory the operation takes place. Each of the chambers of Parliament shall have the constitutional power to vote at any time to terminate our participation in the mission. Approval of the secondment to a specific operation by the Government and subsequent information to the two chambers of Parliament, namely the procedure proposed in relation to the regional approach in paragraphs 4 and 5 of the resolution, is nothing new, but is in line with long-term practice, repeatedly approved by the two chambers of Parliament. Since 2005, this approach has been applied in the case of exclusion into NATO's rapid response forces and EU combat groups. The two chambers of Parliament have always agreed to this approach because they were aware that, if necessary, these predetermined forces should be deployed in a specific operation as quickly as possible. By approving the proposal, Parliament will support the Government's conviction that the Middle East, North Africa, the Sahel and the Balkans are key to our security and that we are ready to actively participate in addressing the threats that come from them, including sending soldiers into operations by international organisations. Parliament will send a clear signal to allies in NATO and the EU on the security-political priorities of the Czech Republic. At the same time, this will allow the Czech Army to start preparing for a specific operation. At the same time, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic will receive a political assignment approved by Parliament, for which types of deployment and in what geographical conditions it is primarily prepared in the defined extent. The Czech Government will be able to respond much more effectively to international crises and will be better able to provide preferred representation in operations in the process of generating forces within NATO, EU or UN. [[12.50 hours]] The opinion of the Parliamentary Institute, drawn up on the basis of the last interpretation of Article 43 of the Constitution for the secondment of the armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the territory of the Republic, notes that the proposed mandate containing the aforementioned constitutional limits can be approved by Parliament because it is in accordance with the Constitution. Now allow me, at least for a short time, to Afghanistan. The draft mandate includes the involvement of the Czech Republic in the new Alliance Mission to Resolute Support in Afghanistan. This is a non-combat mission that should be completed by the end of 2016. The primary objective of this mission is to complete the construction of some of the missing capabilities of the Afghan Armed Forces. Its character is advisory, supportive and training. The Czech Republic has significantly reduced its military presence in Afghanistan in recent years, from the level of about 720 people, it was the level in 2011 to the current 310 soldiers. During 2014, our soldiers in Afghanistan have performed only supporting, or non-combat tasks, which will continue in 2015 as part of a new mission. The tasks that our soldiers are to perform under the Resolute Support mission are a priority for NATO and for the successful course of the mission. This is a continuation of the tasks that our soldiers in Afghanistan are already carrying out under the completed ISAF mission. It is the protection of forces, the training of Afghan air forces, above all. I would like to stress this, because they will no longer be used in the new Resolute Support mission. The composition of the Czech contribution to the Resolute Support mission has a modular character, which means that the size of individual deployed capabilities can no longer be reduced. Because we could not deploy that ability at all, causing the allies a serious problem. Finally, let me add to this introductory point that the new Secretary General of the Alliance has spoken very positively about our missionary work and has called the Czech Republic an active and serious alliance partner. Finally, I would like to say that this proposal was approved by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u3	I thank the Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek will take the floor, then only the rapporteur. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to make a brief statement on what has already been said here by the Minister of Defence, and I will not make any dramatic expansion. I would just like to tell you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has worked closely with the Ministry of Defence on this material and that I would like to tell you that the presence of Czech soldiers in foreign missions and operations, both NATO and the European Union and the UN, has been and despite the sacrifices it brings and which we must carry, is still in the interests of the Czech Republic. I would like to assure you that the areas in which the soldiers operate are regions that have an immediate impact on the security of Europe and the entire Euro-Atlantic region, and in this sense the action of our troops is in line with our country's foreign policy and security priorities. The expected mandate submitted to you follows up on previous mandates, which means that it involves continuing missions in those areas in which we have already worked, so it is Africa, Afghanistan and the Balkans. We and the Minister attended the NATO Summit in Wales, where the North Atlantic Alliance actually agreed on the emphasis on collective and territorial defence in connection with the current events around us. In fact, this mandate responds to this by deploying our troops to NATO's rapid response forces and also by engaging in the protection of the airspace of the Alliance member countries. The material presented to you also responds to the last, perhaps dramatic threat that takes place mainly in the south of Europe, and the growing instability in that geographic zone from North Africa to the Middle East. This is, of course, a situation that you, too, may be looking at often with concern. It has, of course, a direct impact on Europe's security, and therefore naturally it does not avoid this in the future or the Czech Republic. I am referring, of course, to the latest developments in Iraq, Syria and the progress of the so-called Islamic State, the security threat that appeared rather unexpectedly, has grown in a very short time, and it seems that we will have to deal with it for a long time. So this threat, which also has a new character and shows features that we have not yet had the opportunity to observe with similar terrorist groups, forces us to create also the possibility of responding to our soldiers' reactions, which would respond to this rapidly changing security environment and enable us to intervene often and make decisions very quickly if necessary. All this takes into account the material and I would like to conclude by saying that I would like to thank our soldiers here for their high professionalism and dedication and appreciate the work they do for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u5	Thank you, Secretary of State Lubomír Zaorálek. This House press has been discussed by the Defence Committee. The resolution has been delivered to you as the House's press 348/1. I therefore ask that Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, Mr Bohuslav Chalup's rapporteur take the floor, inform you of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the comment on the proposal under discussion and allow me to introduce you to the motion for a resolution number 51 of the Committee on Defence of the 13th meeting held on 22 October 2014 on the proposal for the intervention of the amps and the resources of the Ministry of Defence's Ministry of Foreign Operations in 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017, House print number 348/1. After reasoning by the Minister of Defence MgA. Martin Stropnický, Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, Army General Ing Petr Pavel, M, also Deputy Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, Director of the Joint Operational Centre of the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, Major General . Jiří Baloun, ., MSc, also Head of Security and Political Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic . Václav Bálek, Mr Ing's intelligence report. Bohuslav Chalupa and after a general and detailed debate by the Defence Committee: I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree, first, to agree with the sub-items, now to appeal to the press you received, with paragraphs 1 to 11, second, to ask the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic about the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence's Ministry of Foreign Operations in 2015, by 30 June 2016 at the latest, and the operation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence's Ministry of Foreign Operations in 2016, by 30 June 2017 at the latest; II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this proposal on the action of forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mrs Jana Černochová is the first to enter into the general debate, but the President of the ODS Petr Fiala has reserved the floor before her with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an important point here. We're glad he made it to the House meeting. He's been on the government since August. It's a good thing he's here now. All the more I regret that the Prime Minister is not here to discuss such an important matter as sending our soldiers to foreign missions, because I think he should be here. However, I do not want to use this point for any political comments. I want to say that the Civil Democrats want our soldiers to participate in foreign missions. We believe that we need to protect ourselves from terrorists on their territory before they reach us. We are well aware that this world is not safe, that in Europe we enjoy an exceptionally long period of peace from a historical perspective and that we will only maintain this peace if we actively defend our freedom together with our NATO allies and be strong enough to respect our opponents. We are convinced, which is why I am also speaking here that security policy is precisely the area where there should be maximum possible agreement between the political parties. From this point of view, I welcome and it is a good thing that we have managed to conclude an agreement between the government and the opposition, namely that we have a promise that our original objection to the possible unconstitutionality of approving our troops' participation in unknown missions will be settled by the Constitutional Committee, by the House legislature, to know how to proceed in the future and to avoid possible counter-constitutional negotiations. I therefore note that today the Civil Democratic Party will support this government proposal with its vote. On the other hand, we expect the Prime Minister to consult with democratic political parties immediately when he learns about the details of the specific mission to be sent to our troops. Finally, I would also like to say that today's approval of the material by which we will send 2,836 soldiers to the more unspecified locations, cooperation between the opposition and the coalition will not end, or may not end. If it turns out that it is necessary to consider changing the Constitution in order to increase the flexibility of sending our soldiers, the Civil Democratic Party is ready to participate in this process and coordinate the process with the government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u9	I thank Mr Petr Fial. Mrs Jana Černochová, now duly signed up in the general debate. Please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am just sorry that the Prime Minister is not here, because I would like to ask the Prime Minister why the material that has been available since July that could be discussed in the government is approved here in an accelerated procedure within a few days. But I know it's not the DOD's fault. I know that perhaps the municipal and Senate elections were something for the Prime Minister that he did not want to complicate in connection with any policy that social democracy would have to occupy towards our soldiers and our missions. Anyway, we approve of the material we're sending our troops abroad for the next two years. The Civil Democratic Party, as our President has also said, agrees with the material. We still see an important instrument of our foreign policy in the work of our soldiers in foreign operations. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned this. There have already been debates in the Committee on Defence on the draft mandate that you have before you, in the sense that the requirements for the deployment of forces are adequate to our legal framework, which is in this area, and I am very surprised, almost unchanged since 1993, i.e. 21 years old. In the meantime, we have professionalized our army, so certainly some more detailed in-depth analysis would certainly deserve our legal framework for sending our troops into missions. Today, greater emphasis is placed on flexibility. Sometimes it is necessary to decide within hours, within days, whether we contribute to the operation of one or the organization. By these organisations, I mean the European Union, I mean NATO and I mean the UN. Unfortunately, it can sometimes close the window and it can be to the detriment of our foreign policy interests if we do not have time to discuss something. This question will soon emerge in connection with the emerging core of NATO's rapid response, which should be able to deploy within a few dozen hours. Let me just remind you that this core was approved at the NATO summit in Wales this September, so it's really new. The Czech Republic is not the only country that asks questions about compliance with constitutional order. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate for us to look at whether the legal framework still meets the changed security environment and the higher demands for flexibility in deploying our military forces in operations of international organisations, especially the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. That is why I believe, and I have consulted the Minister of Defence, he knows about my proposal, and he has no objection to it, as we have said in the front room, that we should ask the Constitutional Committee of the Chamber of Deputies in cooperation with the Government's Legislative Council to assess whether the current text of the Constitution meets the needs of the practice of sending our soldiers into foreign operations and, where appropriate, propose amendments to legislation that will meet these needs better. I would therefore like to propose an accompanying resolution in this spirit in a detailed debate by the Chamber of Deputies. It is more or less our protection that when we really broadcast someone or if we need to quickly incorporate and resolve NATO's rapid response forces into our legal system, we will be ready to do so and no one will question it in the future. The Civil Democratic Party will support the proposal as submitted. We are simply asking that the competent authority of the Chamber of Deputies, the Constitutional Committee, and possibly the Legislative Council of the Government in the future, do not say tomorrow, I do not say the day after tomorrow, but sometimes in the future, so that we may be dealing with the next approval of the mandates, and if there are no early elections, then we will have to do so again, so that we can be sure that we cannot get into any conflict with our legal order. I merely refer to the fact that I will read the resolution in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u11	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Mr Alexander Černý, the last member of the general debate so far, has now joined the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ministers, esteemed colleagues, it is the third time we have discussed sending our troops to foreign missions for two years with a view to the third year. We did it every year before. I completely understand and agree that it is definitely better for soldiers to know what awaits them in the longer term, and they can adapt to this, among other things, planning processes. In the long run, we also talk about it, and that is the evergreen of our missions, that basically the most serious, most dangerous mission is the Afghan one. It's the same now. For one thing, it's the biggest, it's the most expensive. We know that in this very mission our soldiers lost their lives, that it is simply a matter of great risk all the time. Finally, even in the reference report, it is acknowledged that no matter how the situation in Afghanistan has developed in recent years, it is still a very uncertain territory, and the deterioration of the international political situation is quite real there as well. [[13.10 hours]] But I want to, because it's been a long time since we've been dealing with sending our troops abroad by missions and Afghanistan, to mention one thing that has been resonating in the security community for years. It's called the afghanization of our army. Because our army basically had to submit to this request. We have come to the point that, in order to ensure that our soldiers can be well evaluated, to perform their tasks, to be properly trained, equipped, etc., this unilateral aspect of building our army was preferred so much that it had quite devastating influence on another of the Constitution's superior aspects, thereby ensuring the defence of the Czech Republic. Today, no one can remember what the soldiers are pointing out, after all, that the Army of the Czech Republic, in the state in which it is - somehow got into that state - is unable to ensure the defence of the Czech Republic. And we keep pretending like nothing's going on. We know very well that even for the planned numbers of the army, which the army is far from reaching at the moment, it would be necessary for the military budget to move above 50 billion. per year. We know very well that we have been about a fifth lower for several years and that the situation will not improve much. This year, some of us commemorated the anniversary of the entry of the Czech Republic into the North Atlantic Alliance, and on the occasion of the celebration of this anniversary, some committed themselves to serious consideration of this problem. They were the chairmen of today's parliamentary parties who declared that they would soon accept the agreement to remedy this situation. And they were even supposed to bring the opposition into this on the pretext that the commitment would exceed one parliamentary term. It will therefore be long-term and will ensure that the military gets to where we would undoubtedly all want to have it, that is, in addition to being able to provide 350 people for the mission in Afghanistan and other x people for other operations, so that it will mainly be able to play a very significant role in ensuring its own security. How it turned out, I don't know if we all know. The assignment was absolutely pregnant and military experts were pleased to finally be able to work on something that they considered reasonable to be meaningful. We were involved in this, too, and we discovered, after a few months, that it wasn't that big of a deal. It was just a humbug again, just a gesture, a slap in the water, which basically means that nothing will change that much in the foreseeable future, that the pace of growth in defense spending would be far from what the working group imagined to be preparing the original basis. In short, we must be satisfied that it will take some time before we are able to really talk about the fact that the Army of the Czech Republic is able to fulfil its constitutional obligations. The contradiction is quite considerable. A few years ago she was accepted with a great pompa White Book on Defense and in that she was also. he's talking about internal debt coming close to 100 billion. in the defense department. I would only be interested to see how, after a few years, internal debt in the budget, which is at least seven, but usually more billions a year, has even decreased. That's just really incomprehensible to me. And I'd quite like the Minister to explain this incomprehensible mathematical puzzle for me. But that's not the most important thing. The growth rates we've set - and they're contained in me. in the draft budget of the Ministry of Defence chapter for the next year with a view of the other two - they are really quite ridiculous and far from meeting the needs that we discussed in the group that prepared the original material. However, what concerns me even more about the material presented is the absence of what Minister Zaorálek has tried to slightly delete here, and I think that is an entirely inadequate assessment of the security risks. We know that the risks are evolving, new ones are changing, some are slightly retreating, some have continued for many years. But in the material presented to us, I consider this one of the weakest aspects of the material. I think that security risk assessment should definitely be there globally. Because I'm asking myself a question because we're already dealing with sending our soldiers abroad and we know what it costs - you've noticed 1.5 billion. for 2015, 1.7 billion. for 2016, and we all know very well that these are numbers that are absolutely not in line with reality, that it is just the tip of the iceberg, that they are just data that relate to a few little characteristics that need to be fulfilled in order for these people to be sent out, but that their preparation, in order to even think about it, costs many times more, we know that too. I'm just asking myself, when we in such a small country with a 20 thousand or today the 16,000 army are throwing away so much money to improve the international security situation, because we've heard so many times that our security is decided elsewhere on the planet, virtually anywhere but the poles, so how is it possible that the situation is not so fundamental. We know that the United States budget for this year is about 850 billion. U.S. dollars, which is a sum so unimaginable, there's no point in speculating what's involved. And behind it, there are other huge sums in tens of billions of dollars from other allies. The Czech Republic doesn't actually figure in these surveys, because such small numbers aren't usually mentioned there. When Barack Obama, the president of America, was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature... I wasn't wrong. I really think the Nobelův Committee was wrong when he gave him the Nobel Peace Prize. He was to be awarded the Nobel Prize for literature, because his speeches are truly magnificent - not only in form but also in content. Something quite impregnable, no other politician has such a great prestige, though, the truth should be noted, some are trying to do so. Some ministers are really trying to adapt their speeches to this level, but it usually sounds more like propaganda than something worth appreciating. But since Mr. Obama got the Nobel Prize, I can't shake the impression that the security situation in the world has gotten worse than improved. I hate to say it, because I looked up to this politician with great respect myself, and I expected him to bring something new into this issue - and it seemed that way. But I can't shake the impression, and that's what I'm missing in the material, that the situation just gets worse every year. And this has been very significant for the last few years. When we were discussing similar material two years ago and preparing our soldiers for deployment, there was a word, a term that was a little different than usual at the time - it was a trance. And when we were on the committee trying to escalate what was behind it, we finally reached an interesting point when the chairman of the Defence Committee stated that we would like to leave Afghanistan by the end of 2014, which is to end our operations in Afghanistan. But he didn't forget to add: but you mustn't trust us so much. We assured him we didn't trust him that much, and it turns out we were quite right, and so was he. [[13.20 hours]] In short, and well, I don't know how much longer we're gonna be in Afghanistan, how long it's gonna be our biggest mission, I just want to point out to all of you that even the eleven points we're supposed to approve today will probably not be the final list. And as senseless as it is from a military point of view that Islamists will be able to defeat air attacks, as presented by the Nobelův laureate already mentioned, so it is very likely -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u13	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask for peace so that you can finish your performance in order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u14	- that we're going to get into a situation where maybe we're going to send our people to Africa and to hell even further, and we should be getting ready for that, too. After all, Mali is proof that this posting, this material may not be finite and that it will be entered in the course of time. If she was such a dominant term two years ago, this year in the material, and even in the committee it was said, the word flexibility appeared more significantly than ever. The Minister also talked about flexibility, both ministers talked about it because they seem to realize that flexibility is not so easy, so they added a regional approach to it. This is another novelty that has never been highlighted to this extent. And the fact that it's pretty much on the line with the text of our Constitution, the article 43 that most of the ODS colleagues here have been talking about, we all know that very well. It should be noted that the Minister of Defence admitted that there is some interpretation of the Parliamentary Institute, but out of modesty he probably did not introduce us to a part that clearly expresses itself on the flexibility and admits that the interpretation is very rubbery. And until the Constitution is corrected, what we will soon try to do, we will have to settle for doing something unconstitutional here, or, more precisely, those who will vote in favour of the missions as they are presented. I don't think it's gonna be us. I remind you that there are constant rules that apply to us that, in order to raise our hand for sending our troops abroad, we need a Security Council resolution quite necessarily, which is ideal when we have it at our disposal, if possible the consent of the state where we are supposed to send people, or representatives of the state, if possible, that is another very important condition. And third - we prefer, above all, the humanitarian nature of the operations to which our people are to be broadcast. I don't know, I probably won't see anyone distracting my concerns about the fact that the material that is presented to us today that the press we are discussing is not going to meet these conditions in its entirety. Therefore, we will probably have to take a negative stance on sending our people to foreign missions in 2015 and 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u15	I thank Mr Alexandr Černý. Who's next to the general debate? A colleague of Antonín Seďa. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be very brief because it's waiting for the next point. I just wanted to emphasise that the material of the operation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations is in line with the security strategy and national interests as well as international commitments. Here I would like to add to the President of the ODS that this concerns not only the North Atlantic Alliance, but also the European Union and the UN. I also agree that the material should be discussed perhaps earlier and better with the opposition. We agree on that, but we know well from the past that this was not the case in the past. And the last thing about constitutionality is the unconstitutionality of points 5, 10, 11. The Minister said it here, the Prime Minister also promised it, that once the exact mission was known, they would come to the Chamber of Deputies with it. And in conclusion. I support the proposal to be loaded, which means an accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u17	Yes, thank you. I ask who goes on to the general debate. It's a real point. Please, Mr. Ambassador. My colleague, Černochová, still in general. Mr Gabal's point of view, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u18	Hello. Mr President, government, colleagues, I wanted to make it clear to the KDU that we will support the mission. We will also support the accompanying resolution. I just add for myself that the Defence Committee, including the closed negotiations, has been very thorough in discussing all the missions, especially those at risk to our soldiers, and I think we have discussed this very thoroughly, and I can strongly recommend the support of the missions and the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u19	Thank you. That was Mr. Ivan Gabal. Mrs Jana Černochová is still in the general debate. But I will ask the House again for peace! It is not something that is quite simple, and the special provisions of the Constitution of the Czech Republic clearly indicate that the differing resolutions of the House and the Senate lead to nothing at all. Then I'd like your attention. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u20	I am very sorry to keep you from reading the data in the past when the Chamber of Deputies, or both of Parliament's chambers, approved a proposal on the operation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence. I must stand up for previous governments here, which certainly had and gave both Members and Senators a much longer time than this government. If my colleague Seďa hadn't gotten off, I wouldn't have said it. I'm sorry, I have to respond to him, just as I have to say that the President of the ODS here has said that it is not just NATO, but that it is an international organisation. As we know, the international organisation is the European Union and the UN. So we're discussing terms of reference in history. The two-year mandate has been approved twice so far - in 2010 and 2012. In 2012, the mandate was already approved in June, with sufficient time in advance. It has logic. If, in March, April, the proceedings within the Ministry of Defence Department, say in the summer months, will be discussed by the General Staff, the Minister of Defence will submit this to the Government in the summer months and submit it to the Chamber of Deputies immediately at the first meeting after the summer. So, in 2010, when the government was established in July, an inter-reviewed commentary procedure was initiated on 24 September 2010. This was approved by the Government on 6 October 2010, delivered to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate on 13 October 2010, ordered by the Chamber of Deputies on 14 October 2010, commanded by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security of the Senate on 26 October 2010, approved by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security of the Senate on 26 October 2010, approved by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on 27 October 2010, approved by the Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies on 29 October 2010 and approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 3 November 2010. So this process took place in September, October, November. Further mandate in 2012. It has already started on 17 April 2012. It was approved by the Government on 16 May 2012, to the Chamber of Deputies and it was delivered to the Senate on 1 June 2012, to the Chamber of Deputies' Defence Committee on 6 June, to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security of the Senate on 12 June, approved by the Senate on 13 June, approved by the Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies on 7 July and approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 12 July 2012. So April, May, June, July. Four months. [[13.30 hours]] I would therefore ask, through the Vice-President, that Mr Seďa do not mislead fellow Members and colleagues here that the previous two governments have allowed themselves to ask both chambers of our legislature to approve such a crucial document within one, maybe two weeks. Because it was supposed to be last Friday, there were no deadlines, so the government approved it on Monday. We're having another week's Friday. So in two weeks, the government, both chambers, both committees. That was never really here. And I'm sorry to keep you from reading it, but I thought it was important to stand up for the previous governments here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u21	I thank my colleague Jana Černochová and ask who else in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. It's not like that. We will continue with the debate in detail. I have Mrs Jana Černochová's application for this and, of course, I expect the rapporteur's text. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I announced in the general debate, I propose an accompanying resolution, because the text of the resolution, as the Minister rightly said, must be consistent with the text approved by the Senate. So I will now please read you the motion for an accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Constitutional Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to assess, in cooperation with the Legislative Council of the Government, whether the existing legal framework for the approval of the Czech Armed Forces abroad is sufficient by the Government and by the Parliament of the Czech Republic in view of the need for greater flexibility and, if necessary, propose such changes to this procedure which will meet the current needs."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u23	Thank you. The accompanying resolution will then be voted in a way other than that of the resolution itself, because it does not require the number of 101 votes requested for the decision itself. The rapporteur will repeat only the part or refer to the part that we are voting in the Chamber of Deputies. Mr rapporteur, please, in a detailed debate, you must refer to the part which is the competence of the Chamber of Deputies to make the Constitution satisfactory. [[Member of the Chalupa is discussing the procedure.]] Not in detail, I just called on the rapporteur to... This means, Mr rapporteur, paragraph 1, paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u24	So again: I propose that the House approve the proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017, the House's press No. 348/1. Point I, points 1 to 11. In addition, item 2. In addition, point II and point III.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u25	We won't be sure about points II and III. We will only vote on points 1 to 11 and on point 2, on requests from the Government and then on what my colleague Černochová has proposed. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I thank the rapporteur and the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura in a detailed debate. I assume that he will comment on the proposed resolutions. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u26	I would like to express the wonder of how little the government defends this material. In fact, there was no defense of the government's approach and of sending our soldiers to foreign missions after a rather corrosive and sharp criticism from the left side of the Chamber of Deputies. I am really surprised that, in principle, the only opposition Members in our ranks who are defending this material publicly on a microphone. On the other hand, we will see what the results of the vote will be. To be honest, I want to admit to improving the Social Democrats. When Mr Seďa here mentioned the last parliamentary term, we voted on sending our troops on foreign missions for 2011, 2012, no social democrat supported it. Neither. In 2012, when we voted on foreign missions for 2013, 2014, I must admit that there has been an improvement and 23 members of the Social Democracy Club, which was less than half, supported this material. I suppose today you'll all vote in favour when it's a government proposal, and I really want to appreciate it. No irony. From zero to 40 percent and maybe to 100 or approaching hundreds is a good shift. On the other hand, I would like to say that you could afford the non-standard procedure very quickly because you knew that the right-wing opposition has long supported these missions and we will vote with the government. As our President and my colleague Jana Černochová said. But you're putting it a little bit as if you're ashamed of it! I'm not talking about the Secretary of Defense right now, but the Prime Minister hasn't been here for a long time. And everyone else, except the Minister of State, who just has to get out there, just shut up! And that's a real shame. We're sorry. And I don't know who said: we're all waiting for a children's group. So for the Czech Republic, this point is more important than 56 hours of debate on the children's group, which we have already attended in the first, second, third reading, when it was here from the Senate when it was at the President's veto. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u27	Thank you. I don't see anyone in the debate anymore. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický with the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not meant to be a bad thing at all, but I do not feel provoked. Rather, after such a short assessment of the potential effectiveness of my speech, I came to the conclusion that it may not be entirely necessary. So I can't touch the whole width here, which in one particular case during the performance here was really very expressive. But I'd like to say a few words after all. In the case of Afghanistan, we didn't have to submit, please. It is necessary to perceive the membership of the Alliance in a completely different way, or finally through the normal eyes of a confident state, and not by some subordinate contribution organization. We were asked, and it was up to us whether or not we were going. There are about 48 participating countries in Afghanistan. This means much more than the Alliance's member countries. This means that many countries have assessed their participation in the mission as beneficial or even necessary. I would also like to say that we are not pretending that nothing happened in the defense department. I'm just rejecting these negative dramatic scenarios. After a long time, we finally have the opportunity to plan wisely. We have a budget for three years in advance, what the military has always wanted. And that's if there's an increase of about 2.5 billion. Every year is the ideal amount, that can be discussed. But it's definitely not some cosmetic modification, because despite this amount, we'll be able to generate some savings, respectively. existing money to invest effectively. But back to that little policy, let's say. Here, expressions like our safety or their safety fall. That's a complete misunderstanding, I think, alliance philosophy, which is collective security. It is simply an interaction between the co-operating states, which guarantee each other, under certain conditions, certain military support and assistance. That's absolutely crucial, please. And I repeat, we don't have to be there, we want to be there. Then I would venture to say that a risk assessment in relation to individual missions would be published on several books, so we took the liberty of not bothering you with those books. However, I believe that these destinations are well-known enough, well-known as risk areas, extending from Sahel to northern Iraq. So it's kind of new. [[13.40 hours]] The cost of these missions, considerably higher. No, we don't conjure with numbers, the costs that are given are real costs, and then of course we also have to talk completely fair and admit that there are some costs of training soldiers at home. To prepare and maintain them, and in that sense, the mission is the best preparation. I would like to conclude by thanking the Defence Committee. The discussion, as has been said here, was really very detailed. Thank you for your helpfulness in meeting the parties to shorten the procedure, and I am very happy, in a purely civil way, to be able to perceive in this House a relatively significant scope of consensus on this particular area, because there is a necessary and beneficial consensus. As regards the proposal for an analysis of the legal framework and the proposal to amend this legal regime, I am very in favour and I also welcome this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-006-136.u29	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if the rapporteur is interested. [[It's not like that.]] The Foreign Minister is not interested either. We will therefore vote on the motions for resolutions. I request the setting up of the quorum required for the resolution pursuant to Article 43 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Thank you. We shall vote in accordance with the rapporteur's proposal. Does anyone have a reservation that we would vote on points 1 to 11 and point 2 together? It's not like that. Reservation is not, no one objects, the President's procedure, so we will vote. The 126 series vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 126, from the presence of 176, for 134, against 27. The motion was accepted. Now the accompanying resolution we have from Mrs Černochová. Kvorum is normal, not need an absolute majority of all, but only an absolute majority present here. We will decide in the vote 127, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 127, from the presence of 176, for 161, versus 2. The motion was accepted. I note that the Chamber of Deputies has agreed to the operation of forces and means of foreign missions in 2015, 2016 with a view to 2017. The motion has been approved. I thank the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, and I conclude with paragraph 136. We will continue with the interrupted point number
