ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u1	103. Motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the promotion of civil education / House document 1700/ To this point, you have received document 1700, which contains a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. I ask the plaintiff of this point, Mr Jiří Mihola, to take the floor. At the same time, I will ask him to remain at the rapporteur's table and monitor the debate during the open debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a motion for a resolution to support civil education in the Czech Republic. It is a resolution that follows freely the seminar that took place at the Chamber of Deputies on 30 October of this year. I organized it with the support of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. I would like to thank its President and all Members once again, as well as all Members of the Chamber of Deputies, for actually for every political club except the KSČM, but everyone was invited to attend at least one Member of this seminar. The resolution I am now presenting to you has been drawn up on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the 1989 November event, if you will, since the beginning of the Velvet Revolution. Twenty-five years after the Velvet Revolution, there is certainly a reason to look back and balance the state of Czech democracy, and that also has to do with what we can do for its quality. Civil education is an important path. In this context, I would like to quote US President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who said: "Democracy cannot succeed unless those expressing their choice are ready to vote wisely. " Civic education, also known as political education in some countries, represents educational training activities that strengthen citizens to participate informedly, responsibly and actively in the management of public affairs and in the development and cultivation of civil society. In this claim, we are based on historical experience that, without an active approach and citizens' participation in public affairs, democratic institutions remain empty shells. Civil education strengthens democracy against totalitarian systems, political extremism and various types of manipulation. It is not a Czech specificity or invention, although it may have a surprisingly long tradition in the Czech space, but it has disappeared somewhat from awareness for various reasons. At the meeting of the Czechoslovak National Assembly in 1919, the 428 report of the Cultural Committee on the law and the organisation of folk courses on civic education, from which I am free to quote the most important passages. I quote: The inevitable condition and the most serious prerequisite for the existence of a free national state is the political maturity of state citizens. Only then can one first expect the success of all national life in the state, when all its members are fully aware not only of their state's rights but also of their responsibilities to the state, and are enthusiastic about the collective spirit of accessory to one and the same state body and love for their homeland. I quote further from this document: The State itself is obliged to take in its care as one of its most prominent and noble tasks the political education of all civil servants of the state. The task of this political education is to bridge the gap between the state and the citizenship first. And the final quote from this document: Every citizen is obliged to contribute to the state's success. Without the efforts of citizens, the free state cannot benefit. All of this is the task of political education in the minds of citizens. This education will be carried out both in schools and in special folk education. So many quotes from this document from 1919. Today, when we are only a few years away from the 100th anniversary of democracy in our countries, we know that democracy is not a matter of course. After all, a substantial part of this period has been experienced by our citizens in totalitarianism, whether Nazi or even longer communist. This historical experience must be a memento for us. We don't necessarily have to go the Czech way. With civil education as a functional system, there is experience in traditional Western democracies. There are many inspiring countries, but for cultural and historical proximity, I am closest to Germany, where civil education has had a tradition since World War II, in full development in educational education since the 1970s. What way to promote and strengthen civil education? This was the subject of the October seminar "25 years of Czech democracy" and will be the subject of further discussions between politicians, political scientists, teachers and other experts both domestic and foreign, including the public. It is a question of whether the way of promoting civil education will lead through the strengthening of contemporary subjects, such as civic education, the expansion of their content and time subsidies, or in other ways. I consider it very important that this professional and social debate be opened at all. You too can contribute to this today. I would like to emphasise here that the support for civil education is clearly expressed in the Government's programming declaration and the support for civil education has also been promised by all the representatives of the political clubs who participated in the seminar that I have already mentioned. Thank you for your attention. And I would now move to present here the motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on the promotion of civil education, which is conducted as House document 1700. "The Chamber of Deputies on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the restoration of a free, independent and democratic rule of law in the Czech Republic and to support the development of a system of democratic civil education in the Czech Republic with regard to constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll. COUNCIL DECISION of 16 December 1992, the Constitution of the Czech Republic, having regard to the resolution of the Bureau of the Czech National Council of 16 December 1992 on the declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, having regard to the spiritual and moral legacy of the first Czechoslovak President Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk and the first Czech President Václav Havel, having regard to the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union and NATO, which places it in the family of European and world democracies, and whereas (a) the necessary condition and the most essential prerequisite for the existence of a free democratic rule of law is the developed democratic thinking of its citizens; (b) freedom, democracy and the rule of law are values that each new generation must take care of and protect with full civic commitment; (C) A State based on democratic values must not bind itself to either exclusive ideology or religion 1. Expresses respect and recognition for all citizens who have contributed to the development of freedom, democratic rule of law and civil society in the Czech Republic. 2. stresses the key importance of civil education in a democratic spirit for the sustainability of the free and democratic rule of law in the Czech Republic. 3. declares that civil education in a democratic spirit is the opposite of indoctrination and political propaganda, which is run by undemocratic political establishment. 4. Stresses that the aim of civil education is to raise free citizens, i.e. citizens who are capable of their own critical judgment on public matters, who are in favour of personal active involvement in public affairs and who respect the fundamental human and political rights of other citizens; 5. Stresses that civil education in the Czech Republic must be based on democratic principles that understand the prohibition of indoctrination, the presentation of controversial topics from more different perspectives and the promotion of independent thinking of citizens, 6. Expresses its support for the development of the civil education system in the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this resolution and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u3	I thank my colleague Mihol and open the debate. This is my colleague... [[Mr Jandak is standing at Mr Zavadil's seat and they are both smiling at the President. The President is silent and waiting for a while. Some other Members are referring to the President: Jandak! His name is Jandak.]] I don't know what you're... okay. Vítězslav Jandák. I didn't know if my colleague was gonna Zavadil first or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u4	Mr President, thank you. I'm embarrassed. But I wanted to say through the President: Comrade, you said it beautifully. [[Laughs in the hall. Let's hear it from different sides.]] You know, don't be mad at me, but to me, the Holy Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. But I have heard these resolutions in my youth and middle age. She just had a red subtext. But she was as stupid as yours!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u5	Yes. I will give my word to my colleague Mihol immediately, and I will just state my apologies so that the situation in the House will calm down a bit. My colleague, Minister of Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, apologizes from 12 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Bezecný from 12 to 14.30 pm and Mr Daniel Korte from 11 to 1.00 pm. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Mr. Jiří Mihola has the floor in an open debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u6	As sorry as I am, I have to respond to a coalition colleague. Mr Jandák, you had the opportunity to come to the seminar. You could have been commenting on the resolution. You could have sent me different messages. It would all be legitimate. I'm not resisting critical opinions. Since nothing like this has happened, you've kept it for now and without any arguments, I've considered whether it's worth answering, if it's not, I'm sorry, throwing yourself away, because such a spontaneous reaction without a single argument really comes very low. I don't want to discuss who was or wasn't a comrade. I don't know how you were. I assure you, I wasn't even a pioneer. So your comrade analogy really doesn't add up here. Sorry about that. As far as you're concerned, I respect him, you have the right to vote, as well as to vote. I would just ask such a rhetorical question: how do you want to contribute to the culture of civil society and politics at all? If you have any alternative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u7	Thank you. I'm asking who's next for the debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the conversation. I am opening the debate in detail, i.e. on the motion for a resolution. Is there a motion for another resolution? [[It's not.]] I ask nicely that my colleague Mihola probably state what he has read here in the introductory words as a motion for a resolution in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose this resolution, which I have read here by word of word. I don't think it's necessary again. I ask once again for your support for this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u9	Mr Mihola referred to House document 1700, the contents of which is the proposed resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Does anyone else have a motion for another resolution in a detailed debate? It's not like that. I am also ending the detailed debate. Therefore, there is probably no interest in the final word, because there was no other proposal in the detailed debate. We will decide on the motion for a resolution in the vote number 30, which I have launched. I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 30, from the present 151 Members, for 82, against 20. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] The motion was accepted. My colleague Mihola is still reporting before I finish point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u10	Thank you, fellow Members, for supporting this resolution. I appreciate this very much and I am ready to continue working together with some of you who have already applied to support civic education in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u11	Thank you. Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u12	Just for the tapestry, Mr President. It happens to me once every ten years at most, but it did. What we voted here a moment ago was something I couldn't possibly support. Still, it turned out to be a yes at the junk. So I voted no, I've got a pro on the high. For the tape screen - I do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-04-ps2013-023-03-007-103.u13	Yes. That concludes point 103. According to the approved agenda of the meeting after the fixed items, we will continue with the second reading contracts, i.e. the completion of ratification of individual international treaties. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] We're starting with point 56, but before I start the point, I'm gonna ask my colleagues for peace of mind. Thank you. Before us is the House press 136.
