ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u1	3. Law on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws /German press 82/7/ - returned by the President of the Republic I record here the application for a debate - with priority rights, President Kalousek and following it with priority rights, President Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't participate in this debate. I don't think I'm an expert on this issue, but here I want to comment on the quality of the legislative process and the logic of the procedure -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u3	I'll ask you, colleagues, to lower the sound level in the room. There's no understanding here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u4	- and the logic of the procedure you're applying to here and which you're probably ready to fill. Allow me, perhaps President Mihola will forgive me, allow me to make a comparison. Mr. Chairman Mihola is going to buy a watch. When viewing a purchased object, they find that the watch does not have a big hand, that they only have a small hand. He warns the salesman, and the salesman says: "It's okay, pay the watch, we'll wrap it up for you, and I promise you that at the nearest possible time, we'll fix it for both hands. " I suppose President Mihola, as a sane and educated man, will say to the salesman: "You're out of your mind. Give me the watch I want, which is fine, and there's no need to fix it." But the politician, President Mihola, will take the watch, pay it, take it away in the belief that the salesman will then fix it for him. Maybe he'll really fix it for him. But why should he buy the wrong watch that will require repair? Why would he do that? And that's the question I'm asking you. I hear here that the law has a fundamental flaw, a fundamental flaw. The defect even threatens a non-essential group of citizens, not a completely insignificant part of civil society. President Mihola says: "We will insist that it be amended on these points. " Yes, I agree that on these points, the law should simply look different. But where in God's name is the logic that you first approve the law you claim, and you're right that he has these flaws, that he doesn't have the big hand on his watch, that he has the risks, and when you approve him, you're gonna reschedule him? [[11.40 hours]] Doctor. Nykl will apply the cardioverter and will not have the right cardioverter. And he says, "Never mind, I'll put another one in there, and he'll be here in two weeks, and I'll replace him." This, colleagues, is what you really want to do. And for God's sake, I'm asking you why. There is no danger of delay! If it was, let's say, the Income Tax Act, which, when it doesn't apply on January 1st, can only start to pay again in a year, I have a certain understanding of it, and I would understand that you just want to approve it now so that it's effective at 1. One, and then it'll be fixed with a quick novel. I can understand that. But with this law, it doesn't matter if it comes into effect now, or on February 1, March 1, April 1. If it's waited so many years, it'll wait two or three months for a proper legislative work. So there's no reason for this! That's one thing I want to point out. The second thing I want to point out is that we all miss here sometimes, as we sway the rule of law with poor standards. And now you're standing here saying, "You, who criticize and criticize - and one of you had it in the election campaign, you criticized the political parties that were in the House, that the rule of law swayed by bad standards, so here you are fighting in the breasts and saying, "We are ready to sway our rule of law by bad standards." A standard we know is wrong, but we're gonna approve it now, and then we're gonna fix it. Why? Because we can. We're ready, we've got enough energy, courage and strength to approve the thing that we say is stupid. We're in the majority, so we can do it. There's no other reason than just your belief that if there's more of you, even if you say it's stupid, you can just express the majority by just approving it. And then maybe you can fix it. And the third point why I consider this procedure extremely dangerous is that we are not just laying down some rules under which the entire company must then follow, but we are sending some kind of signal by law to the company that is obliged to follow our rules. And you just want to pass the law where you send a message to civil society that you want to regulate it in a completely senseless way and cause these people trouble. And then you'll call them -- but we'll fix it quickly. But why would you even expose them to the situation? From the moment that law comes into force, some time will pass until the amendment you claim will come into effect - we can trust you, we don't have to - that you want to approve it. And at that time, even if it was a day, you're going to expose those subjects to a completely senseless, illegal environment and send this signal to the entire society. Why? Because you can. There's no other logic. If I had heard one single reason for the danger of delay, the danger of slipping, I would have tried to understand. But the reason doesn't exist here. There's no danger of delay or slippage, on the contrary. With the probability of an approaching security with a forest nursery for some time - and I claim that any time is unnecessary - they will get into a legally uncomfortable and liquidated environment. To do that, you tell us, well, we'll keep an eye on it. Why do you want to create a situation where there will be an unlawful environment where you'll keep your eyes shut? We are the Chamber of Deputies! We are the guarantor of the quality of the laws we approve. We are the guarantor of the quality of the legislative process and you should not make fun of that legislative process. And you shouldn't make fun of the people you approve of those laws!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u5	Thank you. I have one point of fact here. Mr Laudát and Mr Mihola, with priority rights, are applying for this. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Cell phone's also quiet. And I, when I was wondering where I could see any pattern of behavior of Mr. Mihola's, one attacked me. Back in Cuba, there was a press conference with American journalists, rare, with Fidel Castro. And they asked him -- well, what are you currently doing and dealing with? He says I'm fixing past mistakes. What are you going to do tomorrow? I will correct today's mistakes... Is it really worth worrying about a very important segment of civil society? As we know, anything can happen in the House, the amendment of the law may not succeed quickly. We can run into the Senate, Mr. President. How do you know everything's gonna go smoothly now? What President Mihola is calling for here or what he says is awfully unpleasant, gambling. I think today's society is very upset, restless. Although the research says the exact opposite is true, I don't think so. But please, you're responsible for 10.5 million people. It's not for you to try something here and experiment with something. Madam Secretary here has been warned that the way you're pushing it through the House, it's wrong. Yet, she voted it out completely hard in this way. Even the wise Senate didn't fix it so that it would go well. So I see no reason why this time we should, exceptionally, not stand up for the President's opinion and come up quickly with a comprehensive new amendment. The risk is much smaller than when Mr Mihola's promise is not fulfilled here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u7	Thank you. And now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I must respond to my previous speakers. [[He shows and looks at his watch.]] First of all, the watch, it's a pretty good idea. I've been thinking that I've had them for a long time, they have scars all over the place, and so on, I'll see if they go to the watch shop. But I'm not discussing that right now. I would like to emphasise clearly what I said in my speech. [[Pretty bad.]] I personally worked - even our club - with two variants. I also defended at the Coalition Council, specifically I, who suddenly hears from the preachers from the right side, as if I didn't know or wanted nothing to do with this option. On iDNES, you will find that I have said this, that I would prefer a solution to the parliamentary version across the clubs. On the other hand, we are in democracy, I respect the democratic majority, I have remained alone in this regard, and I respect that. And I know that the other solution is also a solution. Not that there's no solution. And thank you for reminding President Kováčik. I didn't want to read here literally and to the letter, I commented it and, given my indisposition, I probably neglected to stress the time horizon. We have it directly in the agreement that the clubs undertake to submit - and I quote literally - 'the emissary amendment to the Act on Children's Groups as soon as the law comes out in the Collection of Laws, and to support the adoption of the amendment at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic'. That's how it was said at the Coalition Council that it was the nearest possible term. And that's how I emphasize it here. And I'd like to go back to the children's groups. A. KDU-ČSL, as I have already said, has this in its program and wants to help solve still a burning situation of shortage of places in kindergarten schools. We had it in our pre-election programs all over again, left to right. So I'm asking why, if we're hearing a variety of wisdom here today, a variety of examples, why the long-term problem has not been solved in some brilliant way by previous governments. I don't like to refer or point out what the previous ones did and didn't do. But in this case, I'm asking because the baby boom here doesn't last one and a half years, but about ten years, and it's even been predictable from different demographics. [[11.50 hours]] We want to help the acute solution that children's groups are. That is why we support this law, but we wanted to address it immediately at third reading with an amendment that would allow for a smooth existence of all alternatives. KDU-ČSL can't blame it. Remember how it was. We also supported the Senate version of the proposal. So it's definitely not KDU-ČSL that gets the bill's proposal into this situation, which, I admit, can be quite absurd or inconspicuous for someone, or there may be different opinions about it. I, too, made it clear here that there are two ways to solve this. I have said my preference, but I recognise the democratic agreement at the Coalition Council and work to resolve the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u9	Thank you. In fact, the President Kalousek is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u10	I have respect for coalition loyalty, but I think we deserve an answer, and the public deserves the answer - why? I hear because the Coalition Council has agreed to do so. But, for God's sake, why did the Coalition Council make such a deal? What is the real reason? Again, the reason can't be the urgency. That can't be the reason for the exclusion, so it can't be the fear of something not being approved in time. On the contrary. The law will be passed and will come into effect on the day it comes out in the Collection of Laws, and from that moment on, forest kindergartens will find themselves in this situation, which you say is wrong and that you do not want to put them in this situation. And you say, we'll fix it quickly. But why do you want to send them into this situation, even for one single day? At least the public - I am used to the illogical thinking of government Members - would deserve this answer. Why? Why do we think it's better to mess up the law that we say is wrong and then fix it? He doesn't erase himself, he stays there forever as a testimony to the contempt of efforts for good legislative procedure. Why?! I didn't hear the answer. Mr. Chairman Mihola says it's because of the coalition board. But why, where's the reason the coalition board has? We don't get it at all. We all want children's groups, we all want voluntary, not compulsory registration. But tomorrow, Mr President, the day after tomorrow, you will be responsible for the legal order saying something completely different!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u11	Thank you. With priority rights, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u12	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Members, I would just like to make it technically clear what President Kalousek said here that nothing will happen by hitting when the law starts to apply, because there is an annual deadline where it was actually meant that it is time for the organisations to adapt. So I'm sure there won't be any disaster. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that when I was here when I voted on the Senate proposal, on the form that the Senate has returned, I personally expressed myself here that, although I believe that the parliamentary proposal is better, I certainly have nothing against the Senate. I would also like to remind you that a large part of the opposition voted in favour of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u14	Your perception of the rule of law is quite touching, Madam Secretary. We all know there's an annual deadline, but there will be an obligation to register within a year, and we don't want to, even you say you don't want that obligation to arise. Then why do you want to legalize it? Once again, if it were a corporate tax that had to be paid since 1 January, I would understand the Minister of Finance, who says: please, the tax return will be given in a year and three months, and we will do so by then, but it must come into effect on 1 January. Some kind of answer that would give logic to this law, I'd like to hear from you. It has to be done now, or I don't know what's gonna happen, and then we'll fix it. But you don't have the answer. You just feel strong by having a majority, and most of you, in your opinion, are entitled to approve the thing that you claim to be stupid! This is an incredible arrogance to the rule of law, to the social rules and to the people you make the rules for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u15	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to my colleague Kalousek through you. Mr Kalousek, when I was looking at the vote at third reading, and I don't want to be wrong, if I'm wrong, I will apologize to you, so you all bought the watch you were pushing for Mr Mihol in the TOP 09 because you all voted in the third reading for the government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u17	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u18	Not everyone, I do. I do, because I actually trusted the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who promised here that these problems couldn't happen. I believed it, I made a mistake, I will never do it again, and that is why I say that if we, who believed the Minister, have committed this mistake, then we should avoid it in the final vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u19	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask the so-called coalition council, which is a weird association. Two of the subjects here said that this was wrong and that it would stick to it for the coalition. It sounded from my colleague Mihola and then from Prime Minister Pilný. What's the problem? Two of the three members of the coalition say it's wrong, so where's the problem with taking the veto today, and we'll make a proposal for a comprehensive law right now, and everything will be okay, and we can vote it out in a very accelerated regime. I don't know what the problem is. I don't get it. Looks to me like somebody's been sunburned. Who got the heatstroke? Take the first letters of the shortcut.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u21	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u22	Thank you for the floor. Just a word to my colleague Kalousek, who is not here right now, through you. He who says now may have a clear conscience because he wasn't here then. No, he says he voted in favour. He was excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u23	Thank you. I do not see anyone with a factual remark or with a prior right, in which case we will proceed to the debate of proper application. The first duly registered is Mr Zdeněk Soukup.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am confessing something here. I'm the white crow who believes the original law is good. I will therefore vote against the President's veto. I would have done so even if there was no coalition agreement. I am convinced that the original law is good, alarm reports on the threat of forest kindergartens, rings and other activities are odd and are the work of a certain media massage by some founders. We all know what's going on, we've had our emails all over it. [[12.00 hours]] If forest schools are having trouble entering hygiene and other standards, then it's not the fault of the code of children's groups. The solution may be to mitigate certain decrees of the Ministry of Education and Health. After all, that is what the ministers of both departments promised. Just to the edge. The problem of entering the standards was that forest schools had long before the child group law was discussed. But so be it. If the problem is to address the compromise from the coalition agreement, a rather bizarre amendment to an unaccepted law, it is an acceptable solution when it unblocks the necessary child group law. Young families are waiting for him to live on one salary. It is also awaited by employers who are bothered by long maternity leave mainly for parents whose qualifications they have put in certain means and which they consider. That's all this law is about. There is a shortage of places in preschool facilities in the Czech Republic. The capacity for children under the age of three is largely lacking. This is one of the most striking barriers for the early return of women, virtually. men from parental leave to work. Expressed in figures: only 39,6 percent of mothers work in the Czech Republic from children to six years of age. This is the third lowest number in the European Union. The Union average is 58.9 %. Children's groups are definitely cheaper for the state than kindergarten or nursery. Some studies say that the background for a children's group comes to 600 thousand on average. Crowns. The employer usually carries them. However, it can use the resources of the European Social Fund. And such examples, when applied for, are currently around 70. The operation, i.e. patrol service and directing, will again be paid partly by employers and parents. Unlike classical kindergartens and nursery schools, children's groups are not entitled to a state allowance for children. The State will grant employers and parents tax advantages for this. The children's group has one more priority. That's flexibility. It can react flexibly to a fickle population curve. There is research that demonstrates the urgency of addressing the shortage of pre-school facilities. According to the agency, which I do not want to advertise here, 71 percent of companies have said that after the adoption of the law, they will support the care of the children of their employees in children's groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u25	Thank you. A point of fact is made by Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u26	Thank you. I promise I'll be on this thing for the last time, but the previous speaker here has tied the horse behind the wagon, because here we are talking about the re-established law, the presidential veto, and we are talking about what the fastest solution is to adopt the right and fair law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u27	Thank you. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mrs Alena Nohavová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike my previous speaker, I must say that the law is not good. Senators tried to make amends, proposals failed. Now the President returns the law to us. I call on you, Madam Members, not to adopt this law for several reasons, which I have already mentioned here in plenary several times. So I will repeat them briefly again, why not accept this law. Yes, the law was formed for about eight years, when there were really problems with unplaced children in preschool facilities. At present, however, this law is redundant because the birth rate is falling and the problem with unplaced children is only local. And where there is a need to establish a children's group, it can be done. Not in black, of course, but in general legislation. That is, without the existence of a new law. Different alternatives to pre-school care for children, let them be children's groups, forest kindergartens, maternity centers, they just exist today. And I would point out that they exist without the law. The Children's Group Act, which we are here to approve, is intended to regulate what we do not need at all. For the next one. We're talking about an alternative to kindergarten. But the current alternative, in the absence of funding for the founder, will become a minimum binding standard and may endanger kindergarten schools, in the sense of transforming nursery schools into children's groups, thereby causing further problems for the future. For the next one. The Children's Group Act would only make sense for children under the age of three, as a substitute for a no longer existing nursery. But we can no longer make this change at the moment. That is why this standard is redundant in this case, and lastly I consider it best to reject this law. Finally, I would like to ask: Why do you accept and identify with what some of you have critically criticised in the last parliamentary term? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u29	Thank you, Mrs Alena Nohavová. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková will now come with her speech and prepare herself for Marta Semelová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I think there has been a lot to say on this subject, and in all parts of the debate, both in the House and in the Senate, then back here in the House. So only, all the arguments have been repeated here, and I understand many of you who have welcomed this bill and want to support it. I understand, and therefore very briefly, why I will not support this law in any form. In the Czech Republic there is a system of pre-school education and this is the kindergarten. As a degree of a comprehensive education system with qualified workers, an educational programme, and whether you like it or not, state financial support. I understand the repeated lack of places for children over and over again. I have absolutely nothing against forest kindergartens that work and work so far. However, I think it would be more effective to dust off the capacity of nursery schools from the 1990s, to allow the care of younger children. Then it would be a place for preschoolers, because there would be new places in schools as preschool facilities. In addition, I would also like to point out that I am still waiting for the promise of the Minister, who, on taking up his duties, has set out to expand the capacity of kindergarten and preschool facilities. The proposed law, as it was presented in the Chamber of Deputies, whether in the original version or with amendments from the Senate, is considered redundant at the moment and I personally see it as a step backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u31	Thank you, Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková, for her performance. Mrs Marta Semelová will now appear and prepare Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u32	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I have repeatedly stressed in the discussion of the children's group that I understand parents who need to go to work. On the other hand, demographic developments must also be seen, which shows that the number of children born is decreasing and that the problem is being shifted somewhere else. In addition, the lack of capacity in kindergartens is already being addressed without law by municipalities that open new installed buildings that realize extensions, reconstructions, modernizations, thereby expanding the capacity of kindergartens. It is also dealt with by companies and universities called. company kindergartens, which have certain rules that deal with education, hygiene standards work here. In some universities, where other and other classes of kindergartens work, they already offer them not only for the children of their employees and students, but also for the public. [[12.10 hours]] I think that, in this situation, it is necessary and necessary to help the state. I am glad that national funds and European funds are intended and prepared for this, and that an increase in the state budget is also planned to finance the expansion of the capacity of nursery and primary schools. What we lack in the law and what we consider essential, why we did not support the law in the past discussion, is, above all, the obligation of the provider to give children from three years of education according to an educational plan, with the fact that he should be the guarantor of education here, even pre-school, whose importance has already been mentioned very much. Furthermore, we proposed in our amendments that a qualified kindergarten teacher be the guarantor of this preschool education in individual places, as is the case in the Education Worker Act, which has been very closely discussed here. We also requested that the provider ensure that children are fed on the basis of standards, that this food is of good quality and that it is also required to provide care for children from one to four years of age on a non-profit basis. Unfortunately, none of it came through. We therefore did not support this law. As I have already said, a large number of children are gradually moving from kindergarten to primary school. Even today, but especially during the following years, primary schools will experience the great strain of children, as they experienced in the past period of kindergarten. Do you think, in this case, when it moves to elementary school, you're going to want to do it again with the children's groups for elementary school or the place of the first, second degree? I think that primary school education is very important, but education in kindergartens is also important. In our view, it would be necessary for the State to support municipalities in rebuilding a sufficient network of nursery facilities, financially available nursery facilities, and to focus attention on expanding the capacity of pre-school pre-school schools, as well as primary schools, and what is going to be a big problem are school groups where capacity is no longer sufficient. Furthermore, in order to create conditions that allow parents to return to work - I mean flexible working hours, reduced hours of work, work at home, etc., and first of all, the work must be done. The KSČM Club considers the Children's Group Act, and it has been said here, as a step back from pre-school education to just babysitting, to be a law which, at the same time, will cause inequality in access to education. That is why we will support the President's veto, we will not support the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u33	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. The words will be taken by Mrs Helena Langšádlová and will be prepared by colleague Adolf Beznoska. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many have already been said here, but I would like to look at this issue a little further from another point of view. In a few days, we will be commemorating the 25th anniversary of living in freedom, democracy, and we all know that developed civil society is also part of the quality of democracy. It is a huge value without which no democracy can exist. We know that civil society is very diverse, operates in many areas of culture, leisure activities, human rights and others. These are people who are active, non-false and who are actively involved in the life of our society and, in addition to the standard structure and institutions, are really an essential part of every democracy and we must appreciate their activities. And it was one of the segments of civil society that created almost a thousand facilities dedicated to leisure activities and the care of pre-school children. It is these representatives of civil society - parents, nonprofit organizations, who have been building conditions for their work for 25 years. And I consider this bill, which is anchored with mandatory registration, to be an extraordinary manifestation of the arrogance of power. We call these people: these thousand organizations that have been created, which care for 50,000 children, will not exist and we want mandatory registration. I don't want to live in a state where everything will be regulated, where everything will be registered, and everything will be subject to rules. I'm sure we're not entitled to that! I therefore urge us not to support the bill. We've been talking about this for months. I have already proposed an amendment at the committee meeting, which spoke of voluntary registration. We have already discussed this in plenary. And I, as opposed to the Minister, not only do I know about these organizations, but I have visited dozens of them. They do not do it blackly, they are people extremely selfless and very often these organizations arise from the initiative of parents and they are parents who have the right to determine the form of caring for their children. Finally, I would like to say that children's groups can already exist today. We don't bring anything new. They even exist. What the law brings, and that's a good thing, are tax advantages. It's okay. But we're not bringing in any new form. We, by law, are merely threatening the existence of those institutions and organisations that are already in existence. Therefore, I urge you very urgently, let us not support the original proposal, sign and submit a new proposal that will address the issue of the children's group with voluntary registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u35	Thank you, Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Mr Adolf Beznoska will take the floor, Mrs Olga Havlová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u36	Mr President, colleagues, I may be a little surprised, but in my personal opinion, which I will vote on, I will support this law against the President's veto. I followed the law very carefully from the very beginning. Many discussions took place in the Committee on Social Policy, and I have repeatedly talked about it with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and I see it as a necessary law, because there are a number of employers and other institutions waiting for it. It is a law that really extends possibilities especially for parents and especially the smallest children under the age of three. That's why we've started the whole roundabout by requalifying for babysitters, and that's why I feel obliged to follow this line. I understand that there are a number of things that need to be resolved, including the enormous pressure of forest kindergartens, about two and a half thousand of them, and I greatly appreciate their work, but if I am repeatedly guaranteed, repeatedly publicly guaranteed that this will be corrected, and I personally think that forest kindergartens are supposed to go into school law, then I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u37	I thank Mr Adolf Beznosk. The words will be taken by Mrs Olga Havlová, Mr Radim Holeček will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, members of the government, today will be voted on by the President's veto on the Children's Group Act. Unfortunately, according to the statements given by the organisations directly affected by this law, it is completely unsatisfactory. I draw mainly from the statements of the Czech Council of Children and Youth. The problem is that the proposal defines the children's group very unhappyly and should apply essentially to all organisations and associations that work with children. The law is to apply to anyone who provides regular care for children, almost in every form. The law does not define the frequency of service provision, it only speaks of regularity. Nowhere is it clearly specified what will happen with organisations that provide services, for example, once a week. [[12.20 hours]] No one made it clear where the border was and determined the extent of care. The same rules should thus be followed both by one who provides everyday care and by one who runs a children's club that meets once a week. The proposal does not admit that there could be any other form of pre-school care that is not a business, a kindergarten or a children's group. This is a regulation that prohibits all other forms of care. Those who provide such forms of care, such as children's and youth organisations, are thus reliant on building offices, sanitation stations when deciding whether or not to apply the regulation provided for children's groups. The palette of activities with pre-school children is very varied. These are regular activities of young volunteer firefighters, scouts, tourists etc. Further about various clubs, whether with natural themes or urban. Clubs for poor children run by non-profit organisations are not negligible. The law ignores diversity and tries to engrave all activities into the law. This is unrealistic and harmful as a result. This contradicts the culture and tradition on the basis of which various groups of children have been formed in the past 20 years. It is just one of the other examples where the state is not a service to citizens, but when it suffocates citizens and destroys senseless regulations. Why banish forest preschools into concrete houses? The principle of most of these organizations is that there are children in nature. Not concrete. The problem at present is getting children away from the computer into nature, and the state wants the opposite of that law. The second thing, which also deserves fair criticism, is the procedure advocated by the coalition under this law. Then approve a non-compliant law and immediately have a novel prepared for it. I find it absolutely unbelievable. The government coalition's gonna do whatever the hell they want with the section. It's like they don't even know that anyone has to follow the law. How do all children's preschools and organizations who care about children come to this? So far, they've worked smoothly here, and suddenly somebody wants to interfere completely with these activities. We can't approve of such a course of action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u39	Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová. Mr Radim Holeček will take the floor, Mrs Jitka Chalánková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u40	Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. Since much has already been said on this subject, I will reduce my speech to a minimum, namely that from history I will say that the original bill was already drafted in 2013, it was approved by the government, but due to the dissolution of the House it was no longer accepted. What the civil democrats have always pursued in this area have been objectives: extending the choice for parents, co-decision on caring for their children, extending the range of pre-school childcare services, thereby achieving better availability of these services, simplifying the conditions for setting up corporate schools and reducing standards and requirements for nursery facilities. The draft law, which aimed to codify the emergence of children's groups, would relieve parents who wanted to return to work, and which was intended to formalise the care provided by the founder, most often the employer or the municipality, was referred to the Senate in June 2014, which discussed it in four committees, as we know. The three recommended that he return the Chamber of Deputies with amendments, one of which did not adopt the resolution. For the ODS, it was unacceptable to adjust the professional competence of the carer to a type of secondary or university in the fields of education, psychology, health care or social care. The original parliamentary proposal envisaged that children would be younger, i.e. one to two years, the nannies who fulfilled the conditions for business tied up. They passed, as my colleague Beznoska said, a demanding professional qualification, for three years preparing a professional qualification standard for a nanny for children. Furthermore, we cannot identify with the introduction of a minimum operating time of 40 hours, which will limit the flexibility that was at the birth of the idea of children's groups. Very delicate and then decisive for us has become the issue of voluntary registration, i.e. that care providers decide on their own whether to provide care in a given regime, with the benefits and conditions that the law will bring. There is a clear and tangible concern for forest kindergartens for their own existence, which is so far covered by a one-year transitional period in which the Ministry has committed itself to resolving the situation. The ODS club decided to vote freely according to how each Member will be convinced of the guarantees of the Ministry to resolve the permanent protection of forest kindergartens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u41	I thank Mr Radim Holečka. The words will be taken by Mrs Jitka Chalánková, and I do not know if he will leave the preparation for his colleague Černoch, because we have a fixed point at 12.30. My colleague, I'm going to ask you to make an attempt so that I can comply with the House's decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very short because many arguments have already been made. We have heard here that citizens have built facilities that provide care for their children, this care suits families and parents seek it out. These services were not registered and we therefore allowed and tabled an amendment that allowed optional registration. Nevertheless, this amendment has always been rejected either by committees or by the House plenary. The D.O.D. doesn't agree. It seems to me that state bureaucratic dirigism is progressing step by step, and essentially threatens democracy in this country, even though this is a rather narrow area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u43	Dear colleague, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u44	I really just have a very short statement on this. In discussing this bill in the Committee on Social Policy, perhaps beyond gratitude, perhaps she did not realize the Minister on the Committee, perhaps she did not realize, but she said the sentence: The children belong to the state. I tried against it - it was said on the committee, I believe that it was out of gratitude, because I believe that, above all, children belong to parents who have the right to choose and to be responsible for their children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-004-003.u45	Thank you. And because a colleague of the Černoch is logged in, if he can make it in two minutes? No. All right. So in that case, I'm going to interrupt this point. We will continue to discuss the two points that we have firmly ranked, and that is the point that was at 12.30. Before the necessary two minutes or one pass, I'll repeat that we have prepared two points for 12:30. They firmly included item number 120, Information on deployment of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2013, and then a new point 136, which is a Government proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence of Foreign Operations in 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017. Both points will be given by Minister Stropnický. On that second point, Mr Zaorálek will still need the Foreign Minister and I will ask that Mr Václav Klučka and Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, who are the rapporteur of these two points, be prepared. There. We wait calmly for 12:30, and in the meantime, I'm going to ask the Minister of Defence to prepare for his performance point
