ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-025-018.u1	18. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Grospič, Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová, Vojtěch Filip and others for the issue of the Constitutional Act on the referendum /German press 116/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 116/1. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip will present the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-025-018.u2	Thank you. Madam President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen. Yesterday we stated that proposals for a general referendum in this House were discussed 18, yesterday it was the 18th proposal, this is the 19th proposal. I personally participated in the preparation of about seven proposals in various forms. The Czech Republic's greatest hope since 1993 for the approval of the general referendum was between 2002 and 2006, when the Chamber of Deputies passed the draft law on a general referendum and ended, unfortunately, in the Senate, because it was a constitutional proposal and at that time the Senate was not in favour of such a degree of direct democracy. I would like to be very economical in the introduction of this proposal. The law which we submit implements Article 2 (2) of the Treaty. Article 2 (2) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and Article 21 (2) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic 1 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. [[16.20 hours]] Unlike the other proposals that have been made here, Article 2 (2) of the Treaty provides that: 2 quite clearly defined what the general referendum will not concern in the Czech Republic. The list is, I think, quite clear, obvious, unstoppable. It's not something that's interchangeable. And, together with paragraph 3 of Article 2, it is about not deciding in a referendum the obligations arising from international law for the Czech Republic. Here, I'll take a small turn in the justification. Of course, it is possible to consider in the referendum decisions relating to international legal commitments from bilateral agreements or multilateral agreements. I'm going to give one example that may be smiling for someone, that will be inspiring for another. You know that either the capital of Prague or some Members have tried several times to present a bill to legalize prostitution in the Czech Republic. This is not possible, of course, because the Czech Republic is bound by an international treaty to combat prostitution from the 1950s. And if we wanted to adopt such a law here, we would get into a constitutional conflict because, according to Article 10 of our Constitution, international treaties are a higher legal standard by which the Czech Republic is bound than by law. The hierarchy is therefore clear - constitutional laws, international obligations, laws and then government regulations, decrees, etc. So, when I said it in the downward trend, I also say that if, for example, such a proposal were to fall again, the Czech Republic would first have to terminate this international treaty, which it is bound, and it would also have to say in some way how it would deal with it. And since there would certainly be a petition against something like this, it would probably be that we would have to first deal with the procedure that would be chosen here, also by national means. As regards Articles 3 et seq., these are quite standard, that is, to be a clear question, which is one of the greatest disputes, and it is repeated that it is not possible for us to touch on the fundamental issues of the democratic rule of law. Of course, the debate on the scope of this referendum is a matter of classical second reading, because even then, when we reached the constitutional majority of 120 votes in that parliamentary term, we presented such a proposal for a general referendum law in the Senate, the debate focused most on the limits of constitutionality, the limits of that referendum. As far as the announcement of the deadline is concerned, we have subjected it to what has worked as a referendum here, which means that it is declared by the President of the Republic. It will do so no later than 30 days after the application for publication, and if it declares it, then, of course, a referendum will be held within the time limit laid down in this constitutional law. As for the procedures themselves, i.e. the numbers that mean the obligation, or if you wish, will activate the referendum law, so, of course, when it is declared in a certain way by the quorum of Members or Senators, that means the legislature as representatives of citizens, or a joint petition, or, if you wish, by the people themselves, because it is a direct democracy, we have combined those elements of direct and indirect representative democracy in Article 3. But we followed purely constitutional numbers, which means we did not deviate from the limits that the Constitution of the Czech Republic knows. That means the kvora is either 101 or 41, i.e. an absolute majority of the Chamber of Deputies. And as far as the minority kvora is concerned, we have held two fifths, i.e. 80 Members. This means thevora corresponds to all the structures the Constitution of the Czech Republic knows. May I remind the Council of 40 Members to convene a meeting, 41 Members or 17 Senators on a constitutional complaint, 50 Members at a meeting on how to vote on trust, respectively. a statement of distrust to the government, and of course the 80 Members, which we already had in the proposals that were here. And you know that even in committees - forgive me for reducing the very importance of a law as important as the Constitutional Act on referendums, but also for example the negotiation that the minority opinion of the committee is subject to a certain minimum standard of specific Members. So that's probably what makes up the nucleus. As regards the procedural part, i.e. how this will be resolved, then we turn to the standard procedure that concerns the electoral steps that are being implemented here. And of course, this includes the issue of announcing the result of the referendum, virtually. not declaring a referendum under certain circumstances because it is an important constitutional step, i.e. Announcement of a state-of-the-state threat, a state of emergency, a state of war, and a period of time, should such a situation occur in the meantime, shall be interrupted. As regards the proposals that could be referred to the President of the Republic for a referendum, of course, we held the order in which they were submitted, because they can be - I will now say, a classic example that may appear, I know from neighbouring Austria. That means, I don't know, "Hurry up to complete the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant" and the second petition can be "Please don't build any nuclear power plant anymore." And now it would be about who would get the 100,000 signatures faster, because neither the Chamber of Deputies nor the Senate would have agreed to do so. And to give an example, this example shows that we would have to declare a referendum on where the hundred thousand signatures would be collected earlier. As regards the complexity of the disagreement with the result, there is, of course, the question of the solution before the Constitutional Court and the well-known structure that was used in the only referendum after 1993, i.e. on entry into the European Union. The others, I think, are the standard thing to do, I would say, the individual procedures that would need to be addressed if the idea were to be adopted. The law is as economical as every constitutional law must be in order not to be too detailed. And the actual implementation would then correspond to the individual proposal that would be made in this way. Finally, let me say that we have, in a way, addressed the question of what was the subject of the debate yesterday, i.e. Unlimitedvorum. I beg you, of course, the restriction or unlimitedvora is a great discussion subject on the constitutional level. It is clear that no quorum can be given, for example, for elections to the Chamber of Deputies, because we would in a way be able to eliminate the essential conditions of the democratic rule of law and there would be no legislative body. So that's not possible. It would have been different if we had said a favor to each other, and it was discussed here yesterday, no one responded, and I thought I'd leave it to my opening words today, for example, to the Senate. If the legitimacy of a decision is to be questioned, you can only do so with an institution that does not jeopardise the fundamental condition of the functioning of the democratic rule of law. So you have a two-chamber parliament, and it can work independently in some things, or in those fundamental things, such as the budget, so, of course, you can say, in order to increase the level of legitimacy, that it applies to one of those chambers, not to the fundamental, that is limited in some way to thevorum. [[16.30 hours]] As for the debate that was reflected here, I beg you, of course the Czech Republic has little experience with referendums. There are local referendums, there may be regional referendums, and, of course, a national referendum is the conclusion of a process that concerns direct democracy. I would warn against comparing it to other constitutional systems, or for example. Attention to the danger of a referendum in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I simply studied the constitutional system of the unified Ukrainian state after the debates, but the autonomous Republic had the right to declare a referendum. She just did. And the authorities that declared him lost their legitimacy only when the government in Kiev found out that the referendum would not come to its advantage. It's impossible to do something like that. In the theory of the state, I do not mean the theory of law, but in the theory of the state specifically territorial plebiscites are a common part of the theory of division of power, from Mr Montesquieu and other theorists of the state. So please don't confuse. I therefore ask that we try to remedy one of the last shortcomings of our constitutional system. The shortcomings of the constitutional system envisaged by the Constitution of the Czech Republic are only two, and that is the law on the intercourse of both chambers, which we still do not have here, and a general referendum. These are two steps that we are lacking in fulfilling what the constitutionalist here intended and assumed in 1992, although there were some obstacles to this at any time after 1993, even the level of certain legal standards has been reduced. So much for the start of my speech and perhaps only so much for the end: I wish that, after 22 years, the referendum would return to the Czech Republic, as it was here until 1992. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-025-018.u3	Thank you, honourable Member. And now I have Mr Kováčik, Mr Kováčik, with the actual chairman of the KSČM club. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-025-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, allow me to ask for a break for a meeting of the KSČM Club within a period of up to 17 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-025-018.u5	Yes. So I will grant your request, and given that we have a fixed point to discuss at 17 o'clock, I am interrupting this point at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-025-018.u6	I'm calling a KSČM club right now on the club premises.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-025-018.u7	All right, I'll meet you here at 5:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-03-26-ps2013-007-06-025-018.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 17 o'clock and we will continue our negotiations. We have a fixed point number for 17 o'clock.
