ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-006-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and Act No. 418/2011 Coll., on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them, as amended by Act No. 105/2013 Coll. House print 45/ - second reading The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government shall be made by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-006-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat here any more in connection with the first reading of this bill. Its purpose is to bring our legislation into line with the three Directives: Directive 2001/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention, combating and protecting victims of trafficking in human beings, replacing Council Framework Decision 2002/629/JHA, other Directive 2011/1993/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, replacing Council Framework Decision 2004/68/JHA, and other Directive 2012/13/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right to information in criminal proceedings, and finally Council Framework Decision 2008/913/JHA on the fight against certain forms of expression of racism and xenophobia through criminal law. [[15.10 hours]] In order to ensure full compliance of our criminal legislation with European Union legal acts, partial amendments are proposed in criminal law and the introduction of two new factual elements, namely Section 193a, participation in a pornographic performance, and Section 193b, making illicit contact with the child. Furthermore, the existing factual nature of the crime, production and other treatment of child pornography - Section 192 of the Criminal Code - is being extended. I would like to draw attention to changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure which respond to the Directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings, to the obligation to immediately pass on to the person who has been detained or arrested, a simple, understandable written lesson on his rights and to enable him to read this lesson and to retain it with him throughout the period of his being deprived of liberty and to add to the lesson about certain rights which have not yet been specifically instructed by the person being detained or arrested. As regards the proposed addition of the law on criminal liability of legal persons, the Ministry of Justice only proposes minimalist additions, since we have already prepared an amendment which is comprehensive and changes the entire mechanism and which significantly extends the scope of criminal offences from which criminal liability can be derived against the legal person. Print No 45 was discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, where it was discussed in detail. At this point, I would like to thank the active Members involved, in particular Mr Benda and Mr Ondráček, who, by their subjects, have encouraged improvements, additions and refinements in particular of the facts, but also of criminal law, have contributed to the fact that the proposal for amendments in this form actually complies with strict standards. The Constitutional Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve this proposal in the wording of the amendments. In particular, here it is to sum up only the most important changes which differ from the proposal you are supposed to approve now, the proposal to maintain a two-year penalty rate on the "production and other treatment of child pornography" crime, which, of course, also required a change in two newly supplemented offences. There will always be a rate of two years. For the next one. We've released a crime attempt to gain access to child pornography. That was a very inaccurate statement. There is, of course, a criminal offence against all crimes, so it was not necessary to express it explicitly in the wording of the facts. Finally, the addition of the weird crime among the crimes that a legal person may commit as a result of this legally political climate, within which we are currently discussing and hopefully also adopt these amendments. The Ministry of Justice fully agrees with the proposals of the Constitutional Legal Committee and considers them to be very beneficial and improving. The proposed amendment would thus, after being approved by you, reach full consistency and conform with the requirements of European Union law. That's why I recommend her approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-006-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. Before we proceed to the next hearing, I have apologies. Mrs Jana Lorencová apologizes today at 15 o'clock. He also apologizes to Minister Věra Jourová from 5 pm today and from 6 pm Mr David Kádner apologizes for family reasons. At first we ordered the draft law to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 45/1 to 3. I am now asking the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-006-002.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The secretary here basically said everything for me. However, I will repeat some things. Yes, the constitutional committee dealt with this press on 9 April of this year. He dealt with it very closely. For what it looked like as such an innocent standard, I'd almost say too much. However, it was not to the detriment of the cause. The Constitutional Committee adopted a resolution on this press, recommending that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal, in its paragraph two resolutions. It recommends that some amendments and additions be adopted to the bill. The secretary basically said them all. If you don't catch it, they're on your desks. Thirdly, it authorised the Chair of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies - the CFI. Fourthly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, which means that at the House meeting I should report on the results of this draft law at the session of the Constitutional Committee, and also by the resolution in paragraph five, I was empowered, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Madam Secretary didn't mention one thing. I'd just light it up here. The amendment of the Constitutional Legal Committee states that weirdness, if passed at third reading, will perhaps be treated as a criminal offence that can be committed by a legal person. You know, sometimes a month and a half ago, we were dealing with this at this point in the form of first reading, where it was like a separate proposal. That didn't work. It has been promised here that if it is discussed in this press at the IDA, it will pass. Yes, it has passed on my proposal, so I repeat: weirdness should be a delinquency for which a legal person should be criminally responsible. And I would like to thank all the members of the committee for that, and I would also like to thank the Minister for supporting my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-006-002.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Jan Chvojka. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I am initiating a detailed debate which I also do not register any application for. If no one is reporting, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask the Minister, or the rapporteur, about the final words. It's not like that. I therefore end second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the Proposal for a timetable for the discussion of the Government's draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic. [[Member Adámek warns that he has entered into a debate.]] I apologise to the honourable Member. I will therefore ask the Minister and the rapporteur to return to the table. I'm sorry. I have overlooked the honourable Member. He didn't report aggressively enough. He has entered into a detailed debate. Please, Member, I am opening up a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-006-002.u6	Thank you. I'm sorry I was so careful, too. I guess that's because I'm not that experienced. However, I would like to apply to Amendment 689. I would like to say that the detailed reasoning is in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-04-29-ps2013-008-01-006-002.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. I ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate - aggressively or unaggressively. Thank you. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur about the final words. It's not like that. I am therefore done discussing the second reading of this bill. Thank you for understanding. And now we're really going to be dealing with a point.
