ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u1	132. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations I see the Prime Minister has a replacement card number 54 - reporting. Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Miroslava Němcová will give her first interview on the personnel change at the ministries administered by the political movement YES. This interpelation has been interrupted. This is the House press 315. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u2	Hello, Mr Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, honourable colleagues. We have written interpelations on today's program. They'll probably be in the introduction, or my three first ones will be included. I must submit that both or all three are older dates, because the first two I sent to the Prime Minister with a request for a reply on 2 June this year. The Prime Minister answered me within a legal period of 30 days, that's okay. But this answer did not contain what I wanted to hear from him about this interpellation. Thus, this intervention was what is happening at the ministries administered by the ANO Andrej Babiš movement. This applies primarily to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice. I was in the process of preparing these interventions from public sources, i.e. what appeared in the media on this subject, and precisely these responses in the media were the reason why I submitted and asked for the Prime Minister's reply. I must say, therefore, that already on 16 April of this year, the Mladá fronta DNES, a diary owned by Andrej Babiš, is gradually occupied by the state in the article Babišův, that people who worked at one of Agrofert's companies, or in those who actively cooperated with the group, acquire deputy posts or sit in supervisory and administrative councils. Now the quote: "The tide of these people is really strong. In the long run, this creates a number of risks. It further increases the concentration of power and influence. There are rules to be finally set," said the director of Transparency International David Ondráčka. According to the Mladá fronta today, the largest purges take place in the resorts controlled by YES. "From the resorts" - I quote again - "the whole team of officials, the senior reporters, are leaving. Nearly five dozen new people have joined the Ministry of Environment alone by then, the Ministry of Transport over 20." So these numbers are the numbers that I took from public sources. They're not my numbers, they're not my fantasy. I asked the Prime Minister what he said about these shifts. I must say on this quote from the Mladá fronta journal TODAY, as I have already said, owned by Andrej Babiš, that renowned and experienced journalists who either left this paper or did not work at all in it, but are part of the journalistic elite of the Czech Republic, say that it is not so important what is written in these newspapers as what is not written in them. That's for a different interpellation. Maybe not even to interpel, but rather to think about how much we are responsible for reducing freedom, free expression in the media in our clubs alone and then in our clubs. Here's what I'd like to say. Andrej Babiš claims that he bought the media to avoid spreading lies about him. I suppose that the Young Front had other information today than that given to the Prime Minister by the ministries, because the Young Front lists figures other than those on movement at the ministries managed by the ANO movements, I obtained from the Prime Minister's reply. That is why I have asked to discuss this interpellation on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, because I believe that it is a phenomenon that was not there, a phenomenon that is an extraordinary and very dangerous conflict of interests which is concentrated both politically and economically and medially. We are facing this conflict of interest and this conflict of interest has been completely avoided by the Prime Minister in his response. I would now like the Prime Minister to explain to me the position he has taken on these answers. In particular, I would like to hear how he perceives the conflict of interest by increasing people from Agrofert into the state sphere. It is true that I wrote this interview at a time when the final negotiation of the Civil Service Act was about to take place. At that time, it was at risk that the preservation of these people would continue to influence Czech politics, no matter who wins any democratic elections. In the meantime, the law was passed, from whose text I am glad that at least the fundamental risks that we feared at the time were removed. However, the conflict of interest persists, and that is the main question I want to ask the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u3	I thank Mrs. Němcová. I am opening the debate to which the Prime Minister is reporting. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u4	Hello, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, fellow Members. I also replied in writing to Mrs Němcová's written interview on 3 July of this year, where I asked her questions about the information I received from the various departments, and I mentioned a list of persons who came to the state administration after the elections and who had previously worked in Agrofert. That means, this is where accurate information is provided about who it specifically concerns. I think it's pointless for me to read my answer here again. If we look at the laws of the Czech Republic, the rules that are laid down in terms of the admission of persons to the state administration, these rules are not in sufficient form for many years, they have not been here for many years at the level that they are, for example, in more advanced Western European countries. I think we've all had a discussion here over the past few months about the Civil Service Act. I am glad that in the end a consensus has been reached and the Civil Service Act will start to apply in the Czech Republic from 1 January next year. I say this because when we were debating the Civil Service Act, we also discussed the issue of so-called throughput of the state administration. We discussed the extent to which the government should be closed, or to what extent the government should also be open to people who had not worked in it before, working in the private sector, for example, and now decide to go to the state administration. I think from this point of view it doesn't matter what company they worked in, but there may be a situation - and we know that entrepreneurs are entering politics, it was in the past, and it will probably also be in the future - that an entrepreneur will enter politics and that there will also be people who have worked in his company before. There may be a conflict of interest here. When we had a debate on the Civil Service Act, social democracy pushed for the administration to be closed to some extent. Closed in the sense that a certain practice in the administration or self-government would be required to hold a higher position in the administration. With that view, we only succeeded in part because we wanted to reach a compromise, and I know that, for example, the Civil Democratic Party has promoted greater openness to the government and has demanded that we apply for such practice for people who, for example, will apply for the position of Director of the Department or Deputy Chief of Professional Affairs, so that we do not require such practice in the state administration. Here I think there's a contradiction between, say, the spirit of your interpelation, what you're really asking for, and what your own political party has advocated in the negotiations on the Civil Service Act, because either there will be general rules that will impose certain restrictions on people's access to the state administration, or there will be no such general rules, and then there will be ad hoc decisions. I'm a follower of general rules like this here. If these rules are here, at least in part, we have managed to enforce criteria either from the point of view of practice or expertise for someone to take the lead in the administration, so of course it will create some obstacles for people from the commercial sphere to go straight to the state administration. It will simply create certain requirements for them to have to meet them and cannot immediately start holding the top management positions in the state administration. I think that this is a good thing, because of course it can occur here - and it cannot be ruled out that different interest groups, groups that have their origins in corporate structures, may have an interest in privatising the state administration in part. We've had these kind of attacks here in the past few years. The state administration was very hard to resist. I'm glad we've had rules since the New Year that could help us at least in part. With regard to the representation of people who come directly from Agrofert, I must say that this is not a very large group of people and that these are not persons who would hold a large number of leadership positions in the state administration, at the level of the Deputys or, for example, at the level of senior state organisations. So I don't see any systemic risk here, I don't see evidence here to suggest that Agrofert may have started controlling some significant part of the government or that he might have tried to privatise a significant part of the government. The circle of persons who have migrated from Agrofert to state administration is not such a scale, and these people do not represent such a significant position as to create a situation that would be at risk to the government from some point of view, or to be a situation that I, as Prime Minister, would have to deal with by putting myself in these personnel decisions, which, of course, belongs to individual ministers, which means that it does not belong directly to the Prime Minister, but belongs to individual members of the government. Therefore, if I can sum up my response to your written intervention, I believe I have provided you with the information you requested as a Member of Parliament. That's one. Secondly, I am convinced that what can help us face any possible risks in the future will be a consistent application of the Civil Service Act that we have approved and which will apply from 1 January next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u5	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Mrs Němcová also signed up for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u6	Thanks again for the word. So, given the Prime Minister's words, I would like to elaborate on my reasons for writing the interpelation. If the Prime Minister says he doesn't see the risks I see, then it is necessary to clarify who we see or who we read, what we compare for information. So, for refills. In your reply, Prime Minister, you did not name all those involved in the administration one way or another previously associated with Agrofert. I have to say that you wrote to me in the reply that you're introducing me to people who are in an immediate relationship. In the immediate. And behind that immediate word, there can be a lot to hide. But you didn't mention, for example, the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař. You did not mention Soňa Křítková, who is now responsible for the Road and Motorway Directorate, and you write to me yourself in this reply, I think that this is the last sentence: "I would like to stress that the coalition government is choosing its candidates in particular with regard to their professional qualities." So I would like to ask what professional quality or competence the former Director of Marketing and Communications of Agrofert can have for managing such a complicated institution as the Road and Motorway Directorate. For additions, there are other persons associated with Agrofert and working both in the Chamber of Deputies, at municipal level, such as Mrs Radmila Kleslová in Prague. But I recognise this problem, it is different, it is wider and it concerns another set of questions that I will direct to you in my interpellation, which you have already answered, but we will discuss it here, and it concerns the situation in the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, and precisely in relation to people like Radmila Kleslová, people from the StB Circuit, about whom interesting materials have now come out, how many people and where they come from Agrofert and where they come from and are coming into the state administration. But I admit that's not how I formulated my question back then, and you didn't have to answer that question, so we're gonna get there. [[9.20 hours]] But another serious fact is that the management of companies with state participation and the occupation of their supervisory councils are also representatives of Agrofert Andrej Babiš. And I must say that some representatives of your party, Prime Minister, as well as your coalition partner KDU-ČSL, who considered the changes organized by Andrej Babiš, particularly in the supervisory board of CEZ, to be ill-advised, unnegotiated. Although the Finance Minister can always criticize everyone, I think the steps he's taking are far more serious than those that have been in the past. And I see it, you don't see it, that's why we're talking about it. I would like to stress that YES's personnel policy is part of a problem that is new in our terms, to which political representation across the spectrum must face. In order to demonstrate a conflict of interest, I have to talk about the last event that took place in the European Parliament. You know that the German MP there had fundamental reservations about the fact that Vice Prime Minister Babiš, the Minister of Finance, on the one hand, from the point of view of the state, is to be the one who controls the subsidies and, on the other, is their very important beneficiary. Madam - I do not know what happened in Berlin, which was attended by the Deputy Prime Minister on a public holiday, and therefore preferred his business to a public holiday - I do not know how it turned out, but the Member states its reservations in a very fundamental way. Perhaps it was about threatening to promote a Union-wide solution, i.e. to the politicians of the Member States involved in the decision-making of subsidies, respectively. they themselves control these systems for subsidies, so that these politicians are not allowed to receive money from European funds at all. I think that was the point, which is why the trip to Berlin was quickly organized at the time of the public holiday. I see the second conflict of interest in the information it brings - it is related to complaints from Brussels, but it was also brought by Czech Television on its programme ČT Reporters, which was looking for the amount of subsidies that Agrofert and all its companies, about 200, or how many are, I don't know, drawing from the state budget from 2007 to today. So what kind of recipient, what amount of money these companies are. Let me just remind you, because it was a crucial source for me, that the subsidies were received from 94 of 153 Czech companies Agrofert, together, according to ČT's Reporters, these companies Andrej from Babiš state and from Brussels almost 4 billion. Crowns. Lawyers and economic journalists are both expressing themselves here, finding a dramatic conflict of interest. I must add that this programme also draws attention to the fact that Babiš Andrej's companies are trading with the state, receiving public contracts from state and also from regional, urban companies, organizations and authorities. The information on this is available on the Internet, on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development, where there are contract data from 2007 until now, it follows that 153 of these companies traded with the state, regions and cities 18, together they obtained contracts for almost 14 billion. Crowns. The chemical company Andrej Babiš Preol is located in North Bohemian Lovosic, processes rape, manufactures fuels and strategic state company Čepro stores and sells oil products. This company falls under the Ministry of Finance, whose boss is the same Andrej Babiš, and Čepro is placing public contracts with Preol. In the last few traceable years, it was a total of 6.76 billion. CZK, and so far the last contract, the authors of the report, received Babišův's company from the state Chepra this April 16th, at a time when Andrej Babiš was already a minister. I am still quoting Miroslav Motejlek, an economic journalist, publisher who says: The relationship between Čepro and Preol is obviously problematic. This is the thing that we will be dealing with all the time that Andrej Babiš will be Minister of Finance, because these cases will be increasing and a lot will be increasing. Public contracts were awarded to companies from Agrofert 61 state, regional and municipal companies, organisations, some of which are now covered by the ANO movement. These are departments of finance, transport, defence and the environment. There's an important point, I spoke about it a little bit at the outset, but I consider it to be quite essential. In democratic countries, it is customary for independent media to monitor policy and economy, which draw attention to conflicts of interest. There is a special situation in the Czech Republic, because Andrej Babiš also dominated this influential media, especially the daily Mladá fronta Dnes, Lidové noviny and important in terms of listening to radio Impulses. Perhaps it is also necessary to mention in this context the diary or server of the Czech Position, which it receives, I think it is 20 mil. Kroner, when he was alone in loss, 20 miles. He receives crowns from Andrej Babiš, which certainly shows that this medium is also under control by Andrej Babiš. I believe that this is a very dangerous situation. That is why I wanted to know your view on conflict of interest, if for example. European politicians regard it as something extraordinary, even saying that such a thing could not exist in any country in Germany. Under such circumstances, the Minister would even be prosecuted. They say that if an African country were to receive such subsidies, they would be stopped immediately. And then just like that, it probably doesn't belong to it, but since I'm more curious, I'm gonna ask. When I looked at all the people that are now connected with politics, before with the business of Andrej Babiš, I was next to those you, Prime Minister, through the President, which you listed to me, so I have to repeat that there is a Vladimír Dolejský, who worked as director of the school farm of Křtiny, and Wotan Forest belonging to Agrofert worked for him. I have no idea who Mr. Vladimír Dolejský is, my question is not directed to him. But I was intrigued by the title. I've known him a long time, but in connection with this interview, I looked at Wikipedia, what does the name Wotan Forest mean, I wanted to know. Of course, I assumed it wouldn't be what was being offered, that is, a connection to the Old Germanic deity. The only answer I found on Wikipedia is this connection. Just for the record, maybe as a sigh, maybe as a question that Mr. Vice Prime Minister would answer to me rather than you, so here I will say what I found out about Wikipedia, by Carl Gustav Jung, an extraordinary, world-renowned psychologist who, in his 1936 essay, described this god as an archetype that dominated the collective mind of the German nation, Jung explaining the rise of Nazism. And he called Nazism the first Wotan experiment, and he assumes there'll be another one. He assumes that the crazy and violent side of this archetype will manifest itself. So just when I've been through all this, I know it might sound funny to somebody, but I'm quite interested in inspiration when Andrej Babiš names some of his companies, if that's supposed to mean something more than what we think right now and what we know now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u7	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Mr President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u8	Good morning, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to address this issue. I want to confirm, the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech today that we have concluded an agreement with regard to the Service Act, and that we have indeed advocated greater openness of government to private sector people, and that does not change anything. Unfortunately, we have not succeeded very much, but that is the result of the government coalition's position, which I fully respect. Although we failed at this point, the agreement was so valuable that we did not block the agreement. [[9.30 hours]] One of the reasons why we wanted to conclude a service law agreement was what happens after each election. Now I'm quoting the numbers we've obtained from individual ministries under Act 106 on Information Providing. It's about 31. This year's 7th. If we remember, January 29th, the government was appointed. We asked what the situation at the ministries was after six months, and after six months we received this information. In those six months, the ministries left - and now we are talking about the people and workers to be covered by the new Service Act - 1 041 people and were accepted to the Ministry and the Office of the Government of 1 163 people, which is certainly not a small amount, a small number, and in the vast majority these are the people in the management positions from department heads to department heads, the head of the departments, the deputy ministers, we did not count on it. At the six ministries headed by the political movement YES, 460 people were taken away in six months, and 462 people were accepted, which is higher than the average, if we just divide the thousand by fifteen, so it's a higher number than the average. The Prime Minister provided such a general answer to my colleague, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, saying that he does not see any problem anywhere. I'm paraphrasing it a little bit. Let me quote from this week's open source. The first is the interview of the Minister of Agriculture on Saturday's Law, where the Minister of Agriculture, that is, a government politician, not a opposition politician, says: I already felt that we had come to the brink of what had already been smitten by certain prose. But I clearly refused that. Question from the journalist: mít mean Mr. Faltýnek, Chairman of the club YES and still member of the board of Agrofert. Has he ever tried to push you? Minister Jurečka answers: Yes. But I did, there was a demand for us to set up a common agricultural policy with regard to Agrofert's activities. But they did, because I told the ANO gentlemen that I clearly reject this debate, that there will be either politics for everyone, or I will not be a minister here. - On Saturday's právo, Prime Minister. But the President of the ANO Club did not, and he answers yesterday on the same diary's website: In principle, it is nothing, but be careful, I would like to draw attention to the decision of the Minister of Agriculture, who - to quote it correctly - changed the rules regarding the subsidy for sugar beet from the originally proposed 100 million to 450 million, and among farmers in general knows why the Minister decided to increase the allocation to the subsidy for this sugar beet from the originally proposed 100 to 450 million. And it suggests that this is for the sake of the family farm of the Minister of Agriculture. That means two - the member of the government and the chairman of the parliamentary club accuse each other that one wanted an advantage for the company in which he works, the other one, the first one, but I didn't, the first one, he wanted an advantage for his family company again. And the Prime Minister doesn't see anything, he doesn't see a problem. And because they often say that we are making up and seeing something where nothing is going on, I just point out that the Minister of Agriculture and the Chairman of the ANO Parliamentary Club has nothing to do with it, it's just a quote from the press. When we had a debate here a few weeks or months ago about the Service Act, I asked the Prime Minister to, if possible, arrange for ministers to behave in the spirit of this law. And the Prime Minister came out correctly and said, yes, I will try to do so. We assume together that this will apply from 1 January 2015, but there is no reason for them not to do so. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister failed. The last example is from last week when, in principle, the Director-General of the Labour Office was recalled for an hour to an hour. And again, an accelerated tender is being made. Why? Well, so the secretary can make it by the end of the year before the service bill starts, otherwise it wouldn't be any different. Here I wanted to document in my speech that the members of the government themselves or the chairman of the MP's club see a potential conflict of interest particularly in agriculture. It is not only an opinion of the opposition but also of government officials. At the same time, I wanted to point out that the ministers, despite the Prime Minister's assurance, will behave in the spirit of the new service law, although I know that it is not effective and will not be effective until 1 January, do not do so and make significant personnel changes a few weeks before the new service law, which, I remind you, we have supported and supported, will become effective. Paradoxically, the dismissal of the CEO from the Labor Office occurred on the day we voted against the President's veto on the ODS, TOP 09 and the government coalition and adopted the Service Act. That same day, the CEO of the Labor Office was called off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u9	Thank you to President Stanjur. He also entered into the general debate with the Prime Minister's request for the floor. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I think we could certainly process statistics here concerning staff changes after each election. I guess so. We could bring them up against each other right now and say, look, you guys are in 2006, when you put together the Topolánkův government, so how many people left. I could be here looking for quotes from the former chairman of the ODS Topolánek. Maybe he didn't say it, maybe his advisor Mr Dalík said it was about the night of the long knives, that it was necessary to make the night of the long knives so those Social Democrats would fall out of those ministries after eight years of coalition rule leading social democracy. We can just do this here right now. I don't think it's any good, and I'm sure it's a good thing we were able to make a deal and there's going to be a Civil Service Act here. And what we probably know safely and what we can agree between the government and the opposition is simply not going to be this dramatic after the next election because the Civil Service Act is going to apply. The government has voluntarily accepted its restrictions during this term. Of course, we could have also dealt with this with cleverness, that we would say fine, the Civil Service Act would be, but it would only apply to the next government. We didn't do this. It is not only a question of our brave approach, but also of the pressure that is, of course, on the part of the European Commission. The pressure has been here for years, because the Czech Republic didn't have the law. So now we've finally done it, and we have to start acting in accordance with this law, and that's how it's going to be from 1 January. And once the next elections are in the Chamber of Deputies and a new government comes, it will have to respect these restrictions on the Civil Service Act. So we can definitely go back to the past, we can blame ourselves for the different numbers, you can also blame this government that came in. I just want to say practically, the problem is also a little caused by the fact that we, as the government of the Czech Republic, did not alternate the standard political government, but we alternated the government of Jiří Rusnok. And believe me, even Jiří Rusnok's government over the eight nine months that it was there has made a great deal of personnel changes, and many of those people have come to the state administration for a very short time. She was very connected with the ministers of Rusnokův's government, and a large part of them also left the government. They just didn't see it - given that the government was actually perceived as temporary, so many of the people who came with the Rusnokův ministers saw the mission as a highly temporary, limited mandate of their minister, and many of them automatically left the state administration themselves when the new government came. Of course, not all of them, but a large number of them. So it's the rotation and the changes are also linked to the fact that the last government is over. Then there was a temporary government, then there were parliamentary elections. Now came the standard political government, which has a clear mandate from the citizens, which was given by the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. I'd be in favour of focusing on a valid legal situation right now, on what's going to happen. When I said that I would like it to be done in accordance with the prepared Civil Service Act, actually, I was thinking about the rewards, because that is a big and lively topic, and I know that people are interested. Of course, this will also be of interest to the opposition, what rewards are distributed in the state administration. I am trying, and this is my practice at the government's office, so that we really, this year, respect the maximum limit on the remuneration foreseen by the Civil Service Act, which will start to apply from next year. This means that I am trying to ensure that the remuneration does not exceed 25 per cent of the annual income of the civil servant concerned, and I would like other members of the government to do so. Where they have the authority to decide on rewards, to provide rewards in accordance with the principles envisaged by the new regulation of the Civil Service Act. So much for this. [[9.40 hours]] About the Agrofert debate. I think it's simply because, and I think it's pointless now that we're going into some difficult political considerations, but somehow the voters decided in those previous elections to the Chamber of Deputies, the ANO movement, or Andrej Babiš ended up second in these elections, got a significant increase in votes. The YES movement has the second largest parliamentary club here, but if we take the situation seriously, Andrej Babiš finished second in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies without having a political party built. Although our Constitution assumes that our political system is based on the free competition of political parties, a movement that did not actually have any structures built at the time ended right here in the second place. At the moment when this movement is fulfilling government responsibility, it is difficult to blame Andrej Babiš for seeking people and using the social contacts that he acquired at the moment when he had a completely different role and had the role of the owner of Agrofert. So he's using the social contacts he's acquired in this role. In the standard political party, we would probably use the social contacts we acquired within the standard political party in personnel policy. So it's a new situation that's happened and, of course, how big Agrofert is, it creates a potential conflict of interest. And what is very important is that the potential conflict of interest does not turn into a latent or some particular conflict of interest that would harm the Czech Republic and harm taxpayers. That is what I think is also the task of the government, I think it is also the task of the coalition parties that are in the government to act in such a way that there will be no conflict of interest that would harm the Czech Republic, which would harm taxpayers. This is how I see this situation, we will act in accordance with the laws in force. If there are any other laws in the future that will regulate the conflict of interest differently, then of course they will need to be adapted to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Stanjura, Mrs Němcová, is also reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u12	I volunteered with the facts, so you can let me talk for two minutes so I don't talk too long. I just wanted to respond, I'd say, quite friendly and with a smile, to the Prime Minister's claim. I didn't want to measure who fired more or less, but I know your argument. The Prime Minister says: "We have voluntarily limited ourselves by approving the service law along with the opposition. " Well, after you switched 1,100 people. So the limitation is not quite so great, I wanted to remind you, this number, so that if I did not completely refute this argument, at least relativize it. If I trade 1,100 people, then I can voluntarily limit myself, because after a year since the election, basically, I don't have to make any big changes except when you change people who haven't proven themselves, so they came with you. And I told you right away, we didn't count the Deputys. That means if they left the Ministry of Deputys who came with the ministers of Rusnokův's government, that's okay. We see it as the people that the Minister brings, and we would certainly be here, how many Deputys have left and how many new Deputys have been created. [[unintelligible]] About the bounty. We meant something else. We didn't mean to keep up with the reward. No offense to what you said, but then, of course, there's a great deal of room for those rewards that are completely inadequate. Remember the CEO of ŘSD, who was there for four months and received 11 salaries for it, 2.2 million in four months. Even the best civil servants in government may dream of doing so, even if they have 25 percent of the annual remuneration. And I say four months. If it was quality service in four years, I wouldn't object. And last of all, that's really amusing. I've already understood the Prime Minister's approach. Andrej Babiš didn't have a political party built, but he had an Agrofert built, so he married those people from Agrofert. I understand, it's quite understandable. We see it a little differently, but that's okay. And I think that not only the government's tasks, the government's coalition, the protection of conflicts of interest, are used by the opposition to ask questions or point to risks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u13	I thank Mr Stanjur. Please, Madame Němcová, for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u14	Thank you again for the floor. So I, too, had to pass with a light smile that remark that if I didn't have a political party, I'd marry the people of the company. That is what I think is cynical about how a democratic country is to be created with free competition from political parties. Then two more notes. The BIS also draws attention to the risk of linking business and politics in its latest report. Quote: "The usual approach was, for example, the acquisition of influence based on relation to previous employers or links from previous activities in the business or non-profit sector," says the secret service report. I must also mention the article of 3 August 2014, which is actually the interview of Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, chairman of the People's Party, who complains about how Bohuslav Sobotka's cabinet does not discuss taking key positions and ministers are pushed to approve people who are not given the opportunity to say anything about. Here is a direct answer to the question: "On Wednesday, you asked the government to set up a monitoring committee for the management of state material reserves, which controls warehouse goods for crises for 40 billion. Crowns. Are you worried that there's a sneaking around?" asks Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek's reporter. And he answers - and I quote: " The control showed that the state's material reserves, where there were, for example, 700 thousand litres of diesel missing, that were supposed to be physically there, are a very lucrative commodity, with which private companies are very happy to trade. You can make huge money at the right time of stocking and removing supplies from reserves." Another question: "You say that there are voices calling attention to the fact that companies from Agrofert Group of Finance Minister Andrej Babiš make significant profits on these stores. Can you be specific?" He answers: "Well, in state reserves you have fuel, grain, meat. Agrofert's in business in all this. That is why I believe that there is a need for a government monitoring committee to create and dispel concerns about conflicts of interest." On the question of who should be on this monitoring committee, the Vice Prime Minister says that it should be the ministers of industry, agriculture and finance, so that the public can see that there is some supervision of a consistently controlling business of an institution with a large commission by the finance minister's company. So here I quote from the interview. I think there might have been a shift in some introductory sentences, but hardly in those answers. And my question is, what's the deal with the government's monitoring committee? I wouldn't call it the administration of state material reserves, but the government's monitoring committee for Agrofert. I'd like to know who's really gonna sit in it, because the idea that it's gonna be the Minister of Industry, Agriculture, finance doesn't exactly match what I imagined. And then one more comment. If the Prime Minister was talking about this, and I understand that every new government brings its administration after the election, that is, is, and will be. When it happens under normal circumstances, in the circumstances that it is a politically democratically functioning party that has a transparent structure, it is traceable who really worked in its ranks and how it worked in it, unlike when it is a company where we can't find anything like that, we only know. And I could quote that, which all the people sat on different ministries and before that, they were at the Prime Minister's firm. Well, I don't think such a shift is normal. If the Prime Minister is operating here in a situation he inherited, I take it that she too, the temporary government of Jiří Rusnok, or, as President Zeman liked to say, the government of experts, that she put people there who then left, I am not so sure about it, because the whole creation of this government was simply the reward of the President to those who pushed him into the presidential chair, and secondly, I just think, I cannot claim it authorityally, but the link with Lukoil and similar companies was in the background of this government, while in the background of Sobotkův's government is the link with Agrofert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u15	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. The Prime Minister has asked for the floor, after which Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek - I'm sorry, Prime Minister, I'm sorry, Mr Schwarz is on the verdict. Please don't be mad. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u16	Hello. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I apologize to the Prime Minister. I've really been logged in. I'd like to finish talking about Agrofert and us. I'm responding to Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Němcová' performance. I'm sorry if I'm gonna say these things, I'm gonna find out. I myself belong to Severočech Bohemia. cz, we've been building a political structure for eight years, we've got it in the county, but we've got it. Yes, it's from 2011. We liked the idea, that's why we got together. Those sitting here, figure out who's really from Agrofert. I guess there'd have to be a lot of vets, a lot of cops like me. Agrofert is the minimum of us here. There are those from YES who entered YES in 2011, who began to build it, and these people voted. Everyone still likes to talk about Mr. Babiš, Agrofert. I'm not Agrofert myself, I just liked the idea of ANO. That's where I work. I'd like to ask you to stop talking about it. I don't bring things up here, I don't want on this soil I know from practice. So do the math, show me specifically who you think is from Agrofert and that he's doing something wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u17	I thank Mr Schwarz. I apologise once again, Prime Minister, for, in the meantime, Mr Stanjura has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u18	Of course, the opposition is pleased to discuss the government coalitions. If you have noticed, Mr Vice-President, we have quoted the speech of the Minister of Agriculture, the President of the Club of Parliament, Mrs Němcová quoted the speech of Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek and the fact that you did not have a political party built, not the opposition, but the Prime Minister of your government. As far as I understand it, it's more like a word to the coalition ranks so coalition MPs and ministers don't talk about it, and then the opposition doesn't quote their comments. I didn't give my opinion about it at all in my speech, I was just talking about the number of people who were released from the ministries who came. I told all the ministries of all coalition parties and responded to the service law and then I quoted only government policies. So the appeal you said, let them take it as their coalition ministers and coalition MPs, and then we won't quote their comments. Because it's very simple to say that the opposition is bringing up the same thing all the time. But it's not true. If you look at today's tape, or when you read the law on Saturday, the law yesterday, an interview with Mr. Vice Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's performance tonight, tell him not to tell him about your movement that you haven't been built. We were just responding to the Prime Minister's words. We didn't bring it into the debate, government politicians brought it in. It's just for the record. I think the debate is quite calm and factual, and the fact that you quote the expression of government policy, you know that the opposition is not sad when one government politician affects another, that he's pro-clienting his business, and the other is resisting that I didn't, that was actually you. You can't blame us all for that. It's not an attack by the opposition, it's the views of individual ministers, members of the government, or the president of the MP's club, as it happens to be yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u19	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now with priority rights, the Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would also like to comment on the subject which Mrs Němcová has opened and concerns the Administration of State Material Reserves. I believe that it is necessary to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the government has made a personnel change in the management of the Material Reserves Administration. The newly appointed chairman of this Material Reserves Administration has begun checks in this administration, i.e. there is an audit of all contracts that have been concluded in the past and concern the protection of assets in the Material Reserves Administration. Unfortunately, the findings, which are not satisfactory from the point of view of the State, that is to say, have been addressed by entities having contracts with the Administration of State Material Reserves, and it has been proposed that the relevant amendments be concluded in order to align the relationship with these companies. Of course, the management of material reserves will require that contracts be corrected to be supplemented. If it doesn't work out, then, of course, there will be a way to get out of potentially disadvantageous contractual relationships. There are no exceptions, so if there are partners in the Administration of Material Reserves of a company belonging to Agrofert, it is also required for these companies to level out their contractual relationships. Unfortunately, I have to say that past governments did not pay enough attention to the situation in the Treasury. If past governments paid their attention, it would not be possible to conclude agreements disadvantageous to the state. If they paid enough attention, there would be no need to cause the administration of state material reserves to deal with, and that is Viktoria Gruppe's question of protecting oil reserves for the state. These are things that are complicated at the moment, however, I want to assure all Members that the new management of the Material Reserves Administration addresses all these cases, and that possible criminal liability is assessed as far as individual contracts are concerned. In the event that the possibility of criminal liability is stated here, they are already being filed and appropriate criminal charges will be filed concerning workers who may have concluded disadvantageous contracts for the State. In any case, it is reprehensible that governments have not responded in recent years. Unfortunately, I must say, they did not respond to the warning of the security forces of the Czech Republic. The warning here in the past proved to exist, and unfortunately, the previous governments either ignored these warnings or did not address them sufficiently, and this has also been signed on to the current state of the Treasury. The state was not triggered by the current government, it is not caused by the fact that there are apparently companies among suppliers belonging to Agrofert, but at the moment the current government wants to resolve this situation radically, to settle contractual relations and to ensure that the state does not lose any funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, Vice Prime Minister, joined the debate. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u22	Mr President, I would only respond. I think that even in 2010 there was quite a hit on the people who worked in the state administration. The fact that some ministries did not find official posts for former ministers, who were relatively competent both in language and professionally, is a sad business card, because it is not a custom abroad. As far as material reserves are concerned, yes, I have initiated the formation of this entity. I wanted the government's monitoring committee to be diverted precisely so that all suspicions and such attacks that were against Agrofert and the ANO movement would be reversed, respectively, to be refuted. And rebuttal is very simple. We have no indication that, in any way, Agrofert would do anything that was immoral or incompatible with the law, but what we know positively that the former government and, above all, the government of Petr Nečas have neglected to deal significantly with the state's material reserves, and the Czech state has enormous problems with that. Perhaps you, too, will then wonder if some people who might be associated with your party may end up where they don't like it very much. My efforts were made by this monitoring government committee, it was set up and intended to serve to openly escalate what was really happening, and to actually clearly disprove suspicion, or to confirm, but so far they have all disproved that something dishonest or unlawful is happening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. Mr President of the ANO membership club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u24	Good morning, colleagues, Mr Vice-President. I apologize for not sitting here in the hall, but I watched closely on the agricultural committee the performance of my colleague, at this moment absent, Mr Stanjura and my colleague Němcová. Since my name came up in the interpellation, I'd like to respond with permission. I would first of all like to apologise, through the President, to Stanjur and Němcová colleagues for the fact that I have essentially taken the liberty of working my entire professional life in agriculture and for the last 15 years in the Agrofert Group. [[10.00 hours]] I'm very sorry about this, colleagues, but unlike you, I've been doing normal work for a living in politics. I apologize to the whole Czech public, that even in the House, whether in the position of Chairman of the ANO movement club or in the position of Chairman of the agricultural committee, I continue to do what I have done my whole life. I did not originally want to respond to the article in Právo, where Minister Jurečka evaluates some of our cooperation. In my opinion, it should stay in that government kitchen, of course you're right that it's not right, appropriate, tactical, political. However, I finally decided to respond because when Minister Jurečka went to school and then started his family farm, I tried to fight for the interests of Czech farmers at that time, and I think I have a little bit of a part in the fact that today the resort is in relatively good condition, showing positive economic results. Even as part of the negotiations on the new common agricultural policy in Brussels, which I had the opportunity to participate actively, we have managed to win relatively decent conditions for Czech farmers in relation to the old 15 that we have come at least a little closer in the area of, in particular, grant policy, how it has worked there for many years. Most of us know that our country has lost its food self-sufficiency thanks to the not very competent policies of past governments, especially right-wing governments. It is a terrible pity that the Czech consumer is especially dependent on animal production, meat, eggs, chickens, etc. imports from Poland and other countries where the previous governments have applied another agricultural policy and have enabled the investment development of these sectors and, above all, employment. So I apologize once again for continuing to defend the interests of Czech farmers both at national and European level. And that's all I can say. I am really sorry that Agrofert is doing business in agriculture, but the share of Agrofert, respectively. its primary production within the Czech agricultural sector is approximately two percent - just for information - in relation to the cultivated area. So let each of our country's citizens assess the great conflict of interest we have. And, of course, when we went to the election, the public knew. She knew about me that I actually lived in this field from school, for 30 years, and I want to continue to do so in the Chamber of Deputies. Well, I'm sorry, but I'm not changing anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u25	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Speaking of apologies, I have two more. Mrs Olga Havlová apologizes today between 9 and 11.30 and Mr Milan Urban apologises today until 11 o'clock. In addition, Mr Petr Bendl made a point of fact. After that, with priority rights, the Minister of the Environment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to respond to the President of the Faltýnek Agricultural Committee because I think he is an agricultural expert and understands things that concern agriculture. However much I disagree with the smile that Agrofert's influence on agriculture would be two percent. Perhaps from the point of view of the amount of land owned by Agrofert. [[Mr. Faltynek's on the bench.]] But given Agrofert's presence in the agricultural sector, he himself knows that this is not true and that we can play with statistics in any way. But it is precisely because I consider the chairman of the agricultural committee to be an agricultural expert that I take extremely seriously what he wrote in his interview, which he published in Právu, where he says that he is very - I will use his own words - suspicious when the Minister of Agriculture raises subsidies for the seeds of diabetes from 100 million to 450 million when his friends - these are the words that have been used - sell and feed on the seeds of diabetes. I think that this is a serious matter and that the Minister of Agriculture should explain it. Although he does not attend our meetings, he does not respond to the interpelations, even yesterday or today at the Chamber of Deputies. Just like last week. In short, he is certainly busy with everything but the work of the Chamber of Deputies and the laws we are discussing. However, I wanted to say this, and I think, Prime Minister, through Mr President, that this too is a matter that should be dealt with by your commission, which, as has been said here, will discuss relations concerning a conflict of interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u27	I thank Mr Bendl. The Minister of Agriculture is excused from today's meeting on a foreign trip, I remind you. Another with priority rights - Mr. Minister of Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u28	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that I usually speak only on my points, or on my colleagues' points, where I work as a universal soldier. I think I'm gonna do it again today. But this time I'm going to make an exception, because first of all, my name was also mentioned here. President Faltýnek apologized, he's very polite. I'm not gonna apologize. I'm not going to apologize for that, and I consider it an honor to have worked for Agrofert for six years. I'll tell you what it taught me. It taught me how to run a big company, to be responsible for hundreds of people. For the fact that the factory will have on wages, that we will manage efficiently, that we will manage in accordance with the law and that we will work, which is not how many companies operate. And it also gave me the experience of running the resort. Because I think that every ministry resort today is a huge company with huge responsibilities, with huge budgets and thousands, or even tens of thousands of people. I have to say, if I didn't have that experience, and I worked for this Babiš, who is one of the most demanding bosses in this state, I dare say from experience. I worked for him really seven days a week, 365 days a year, and there were phones taken at two o'clock in the morning and Sunday. And it's a good experience, ladies and gentlemen. Good real-world experience, good experience, what the world is all about. I dare say it gave me the courage with all humility to even apply for such a resort. Among other things, a resort where in a number of cases I have to clean up the huge pigsty left over from my predecessors. Without this experience, it would be very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u29	Thank you, Minister. And now we have a shrink of factual remarks. First of all, Mr Chalupa, then Mr Laudát. After that, Mr Bendl. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u30	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, esteemed colleagues. This reminds me of a debate about a month after we joined our parliamentary mandates. I'll repeat what I said back then. I'm not an employee of Agrofert. I've never been an employee of Agrofert. As far as the party structure is concerned, I have the honour to be the regional chairman of the ANO movement in the South Moravian Region, and I can assure you that we have a party structure built. I don't know how many percent of the ANO members there are employed in Agrofert, but it will be in the order of units percent possible. As for the terminology or what Mrs Němcová here, through Mr President, mentioned German mythology, so I would like to ask her through Mr President to explain to us here the terminology of the night of long knives, which, if I remember correctly, was used by the former President of the ODS. To explain the convention with Mr. Hitler's workshop and maybe tell us how much it cost people's lives then and so on. If we're gonna have this kind of fun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u31	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. With another factual remark, Mr Laudát. Mr Bendl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 pointed out from the outset that there may be a conflict of interests of unprecedented magnitude. And I don't know what you're wondering. Here we go. It's just logical. Mr. Minister Brabco. Someone's learned something, but what kind of rationality is there today, for example, in the Department of Transport? And the Prime Minister did not consider it necessary for an emergency meeting or for any other occasion here to say how he imagined solving the problems that had been raised there. Not in the past, but now. We were attacking and reminiscent of the current problems that Minister Prachař had created there. But what's important, we can say something here, Babišův's media and other journalists waiting for an opportunity, because not only Babiš's media has changed, but also other media, except for rare exceptions, can talk and fool people they want. But what is more important and what do I think: Prime Minister, what will you do when Brussels is out of patience when we stop our subsidies? Are you able to guarantee here that this will never happen? When we have heard various ambassadors, accounting courts from Brussels or nearby cities, the institutions of the European Union, they often come from quotations in the media. They take that the media aren't as lying as it really is in a lot of cases. We have often been completely fascinated by this, but today the ministers of your government exchange their views. That means it's hard to say, and you're going to reason: they didn't say it. They didn't mean it like that. I'd like you to just get out here and say, yes, I guarantee it works the way that these things can't happen. And then it's not gonna be, if Jurečka's got $450 million on some seed or somebody pushed, bought or didn't buy something over there, then it's gonna be about 600 billion for this programming period. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u33	I thank Mr Laudát. With another factual remark, Mr Petr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. In response to the Minister of the Environment. We've been friends a long time, we've known each other for a long time. And so I wanted to say on the microphone that it's not about the specific staff, it's not about the particular person and his experience. It is about the fact that people who represent an important company sit in the leadership of the state, often almost with a monopoly position that draws European money that has some economic, concrete financial relations with the state itself, and that the opposition simply has to look after these matters. After all, what we are hearing today from individual MEPs of the European Union who are criticizing and noticing this situation in the Czech Republic is that there are people who are in potential conflict of interest and that they do not like it, there are some as sharp statements as they say that if there were a similar conflict of interest in some leadership of a country where humanitarian aid from the European Union is going, they would immediately stop it, because the European Union itself would not allow it, and they too will ensure that there is no abuse of the status of a particular natural person. So it's not about whether someone's a good manager or a bad manager. I almost think that both are dangerous in case something happens that the opposition has to watch over and watch over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u35	I thank Mr Bendl. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Mrs. Němcová. In the debate or in the motion for a resolution? [[Member Nemcová: Let's have a debate.]] For the debate. Please, Mrs Němcová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would probably also fit into a factual point, but I just wanted to respond to what Mr Faltýnek said here. There's no way my interpellation was directed against what you were doing before entering politics. I have to respond to your words, where you said: I lived an honest life. I have to say, we lived an honest life, too. I didn't enter politics from school, and I didn't become a politician. I had a private bookstore before, I tried something on. I'm happy to be able to stand on my own after the fall of the Communist regime and prove that I can or can't stand on them. I'd like you to think too much about the fact that this right-wing side that you pointed to in the bench, ODS, is, for example, a side where people haven't gone through any normal practice, any normal life. Don't apologize to me, I'm pointing out that I didn't ask anyone to apologize. I have asked the Prime Minister's reply to explain to me what conflict of interest we find ourselves in if we are in the state administration - and now I ask that some other colleagues in the YES movement listen to me - I have not spoken about the Chamber of Deputies, I have spoken about the state administration, the ministries that are governed by the YES movement - if the growing of this company Agrofert into the state administration is or is not a risk. I have argued the results from the European Union. I argued with the comments from the newspaper. I also argued with your mutual gunfights, which you shared in the media within the coalition. There's no way I questioned your previous private activity, whether it was in Mr. Babiš's or anyone's resort. I am only starting to deal with this when we are in politics, when politics is to be a free competition between political parties or political movements, but a free competition. And I'm losing sight of this free space especially because the media that are supposed to guard free space here owns the same guy who owns Agrofert, and the same guy who's here to be Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance. That's where I see the risk. Obviously, here, the free competition has different parameters than what I was used to when I joined politics myself, and where those risks did not really exist. That's why I'm talking about them. And there's no way this was going personally against you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u37	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Volný, after which President Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u38	Thank you, Mr President, Government, colleagues. I cannot not respond to the speeches made by my colleague, Mrs Němcová and Mr Stanjura, through Mr President. What are we playing at here? Are you criticizing Mr. Babiš bringing people from Agrofert? You're saying that only political matadors should go to the government and ministries? Wouldn't it also be reasonable to ban people from Agrofert from voting? What kind of caste are you doing here? We want them to be capable, hardworking, honest people. And if they've been in a political party for ten years, or if they're non-partisans, but they're pros, that's what we should be after. I'm completely appalled by what I hear here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u39	Thank you, Mr Volný. Now, Mr. Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, with a factual remark, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u40	Colleagues, colleagues, I didn't intend to go into any personal assaults or attacks. I was merely responding to what was said here by a fellow Němcová and Mr Stanjura. But let me make one more comment on the performance by František Laudát on this Brussels. You know, I don't know which one of you has been going to the Commission or the European Parliament in the last minus two years and in the last five years. You know, I was very sad and ashamed that I was Čech during the debates with my colleagues from the Agricultural Committee, the Committee on the Environment with the top representatives at DG AGRI. [[10.20 hours]] And you know why? Because in those hallways those European Commission officials, the Polák, the Maďar, the Rakušák, the Řek, the Portugalec, who know nothing about agriculture and do it completely wrong, unlike us, said: You are from the country where our subsidies are stolen. You're from the Czech Republic where European money is being stolen... Friends, do you know how I felt? I hope that this situation - even though Agrofert works in some way in Czech politics - will not happen anymore. That, through Mr President, František Laudát, the officials at DG AGRI and DG SANCO will not speak of us. I've been there for myself, and I've been ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u41	I thank Mr Faltýnek. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u42	Thank you for the floor. I don't go to Brussels, so I don't know if I'd be ashamed or ashamed. I don't know how to e.g. Today, people from various NATO Security Committees have said that when it comes to fundamental things - and indeed, if we join some alliance of bent bananas or unbuckled bananas, it's probably wacky, and everyone's kind of trying to rip off their sand, but it's not essential things. You're failing foreign policy on these elementary issues today, i.e. security, protection of freedom, protection of human rights. So that's where I'd fall with shame. And you are destroying what Václav Havel has built here, our credit. I don't know if I should be more embarrassed tonight. This is what I would be ashamed of if we joined an alliance, if we were to rip off the subsidy somewhere else, which I don't question at all is that it may be necessary for some part of the farmers, for some branch of agriculture, for example. Sugar beet, I'm not questioning it because I don't understand and I don't know. If Jurečka's doing it, I guess it's the right thing to do. However, you fail in the more important things. But that's not the point. I just wanted the Prime Minister to come out here and say that from this point of view there is no risk that the Czech Republic could eventually have all the subsidies stifled. Look at the present and the future as well. I don't question it, for example, and I've said it many times here, Prachař, for the past things that were happening on ŘSD. They're supposed to be dealing with something. If you find anything, call the police. But you're fatally failing at things that are up to date. I'm interested in the present, the future. You won't last long if you feed people the past. Start feeding them really the results of the work of the present. That's all I care about. And all the Prime Minister has to say is, yes, I guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u43	I thank Mr Laudát. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If not, I am going to end the debate and allow myself to ask Mrs Miroslava Němcová, as suggested by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the Prime Minister's reply. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u44	Thank you again, Mr Vice-President. So, after the debate that took place, when we touched on a number of headings, I do not feel that the Prime Minister would sufficiently reflect the conflict of interest that I was talking about, I will propose a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic does not agree with the Prime Minister's response to the interpelation - and now there is a number that I do not know in my head - Miroslava Němcová on the issue of conflict of interest - Agrofert. I must assume, of course, as a realist that this resolution will not be adopted. That's a normal vote option. So I want to update, as I have already done in my introductory words, that I will continue this subject with other written interpelations. I hinted at the other circuit, i.e. a circle of people associated with former State Security operating in the ranks of current management deployed by Agrofert. State management, I think. And the next circuit will relate to the exact amount of financial, i.e. the drawing of subsidies and trade with the state, with Agrofert. So we will continue the topic, whatever the House's decision on this interpelation will be. I have tabled my motion for a resolution and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u45	I thank Mrs Němcová and we will vote on the motion for a resolution she has tabled, stating that the House disagrees with the Prime Minister's reply to Mrs Miroslava Němcová's interpelation on personnel change at the ministries administered by the political movement YES according to the House's press number 315. I am opening the vote on this resolution. Who's in? [[Members on the left request a check-out.]] Excuse me, I declare this vote misguided. There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. After the number of persons present has settled, I am opening the vote on the resolution as presented. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 104, 88 Members are registered, for 28, against 54. [[on the board at a time 89]] The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. I thank the Prime Minister and the Member. Another intervention that we will be looking at is the question of interpelling when Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka responded to Mrs Miroslava Němcová's interpelation on leaks of wiretapping and information from investigative files into the media. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 316. The discussion of this reply was suspended last Thursday, and I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Miroslava Němcová has applied. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I knew that there was a contradiction between me and the Prime Minister. We all feel different about this thing. I don't take it fatally, it's natural after all. On the political spectrum, opinions are left to right. I also understand that the Prime Minister is bound by a coalition that does not allow him to act in a way that makes him angry or broken. I understand all that. I would like to say this at the outset of this second interpellation, which concerns the leak of wiretaps - I mean, in particular, the leak of wiretaps to the media. I want to say, at least I have the feeling that in this interview, Mr. Prime Minister and I have a little bit more understanding. I want to thank him for the answer I got. I sent my interpelation on June 2nd, just like the previous one. I received an answer from the President in due time. And we are both dealing with what we consider to be a great risk in terms of justice, the passage of justice in the Czech Republic. Thank you, then, Prime Minister. I am pleased to agree that the illegal disclosure of relevant facts in criminal proceedings is unacceptable, as this is also the case. to question the principle of a fair trial. However, I would still like to get a convincing answer in the sense of what steps you can really take out of your position, or you have already made it impossible for this vice, which I consider to be the poison of contemporary society, to be not completely averted, that will certainly not happen, but in the maximum possible way to limit it. I would like to say that I am dealing with this, whether I want to or not, all the time, because I feel that the whole public discourse, the debate about what politics is and who plays a role in it, is only taking place through criminalization and scandalization. And the most effective method is the use of wiretaps. The Prime Minister himself - and thank you for that, I do not know if he will want to repeat this in his reply - described me very extensively, for example. the number of individual leaks of information, when this was - the Prime Minister writes - a total of 157 cases in 2013. The most cases of leaking information this year were investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic and this was a total of 142 cases. It also distributes figures relating to 2012, where there were a total of 129 cases. Again, the Police of the Czech Republic is important. [[10.30 hours]] I am convinced of what is easy to say, but it works, the road to hell is paved with good intentions and all the simple recipes for radical dealing with negative phenomena in our society, which we must deal with, lead to replacing the bad with even worse. We are living in a rather Orwellian time that has captured not only our country but also many other states. Eavesdropping and other compromising materials are required goods, and their special-purpose publication often serves only for political struggle, and it is incidental when it is discovered that a number of these cases are somehow made for a contract, not supported by sufficient evidence and with a distance of several years there is no final conviction. As I said, I understand that we will not succeed in doing this, even if we have made our best efforts simply to remove it, but, given what you have responded to me, Prime Minister, in particular to the frequency of leaks from the Police of the Czech Republic and from other places, I would also like you to get acquainted with this response from the House, because I believe that this is not a matter that should bother one member of one political party, but that it should concern all of us. Therefore, I would politely ask you to convey your answer to the House, possibly supplementing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u47	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. The Prime Minister is also reporting for the debate. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u48	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Members of Parliament, I believe that in this regime you have the answer that concerns Mrs Němcová's interpelation. In my reply, I really focused on the state's mechanisms, the state administration, to address the issue of leaking wiretapping and information from the investigation files into the media, which was the topic of Mrs Němcová's written interpelation. In my reply, I mentioned in particular the activity of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, which deals with these cases. Indeed, in 2012 the inspection dealt with information leaks in 204 cases in total as regards 2013, where it dealt with information leaks in 157 cases, with a number of cases dealing with own-initiative leaks. The information mentioned here by Mrs Němcová also applies that the largest number of leaks were investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic. Only in 2013 it was 142 cases, before in 2012 it was 180 cases, but unfortunately these cases were also investigated in other security forces. I would like to assure both the Member and the Chamber of Deputies that, from the perspective of the General Inspection of the Security Corps, sufficient attention will continue to be paid to these leaks, with the fact that there is also cooperation with the head of security forces in order to propose and implement such preventive measures to eliminate the possibility of leaking such sensitive information during the investigation. I would simply like to draw attention to the fact that this information is not only available to security forces in the course of the ongoing criminal proceedings, but at some stage other parties to the criminal proceedings, including legal representatives, are also familiar with this information. This means that there is already a significant increase in the number of people who can become familiar with the records that are part of the relevant criminal files, and then it is already a circle of people who are not fully controlled by the State and cannot completely limit and prevent how it is then handled. There is, of course, a question of legislation that deals with the publication of such wiretaps, and there is a question of public interest subject to a permanent discussion, and I know that this is also the subject of a permanent discussion here at the Chamber of Deputies. So, if I sum up the government's approach and the government's approach, I consider this issue serious. Illegal disclosure of relevant facts in criminal proceedings is unacceptable because this is also the case. to question the principles of a fair trial. The government should aim to ensure that every citizen is guaranteed and guaranteed his right to a fair trial. The problem with wiretapping is naturally a serious problem, and I must say that the negatives of breaking laws in this respect are intersecting with the functional period of several last governments without any comprehensive, overall and really effective solutions. So here at the moment, the government is prepared to make a consistent use of existing legislation and I was assured that even the General Inspection of the Security Corps is prepared to work very actively with all the incentives it receives, possibly. with incentives which it obtains in its own activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u49	Thank you to the Prime Minister and I have here the de facto application of Mr. Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u50	Hello. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was about to get off at the last point, but I'm still in control, but now I can't. It doesn't bother me at all that the papers print anything, I'm worried about something else. What bothers me is that such events happen at all, that politicians make deals! If you read a book I'm not going to name now because I could do a promotion that isn't allowed, but it's the Mrázek of Mrázka. This is a matter that has been going on for decades in history that somebody has been leading. So let's not tell the press they're gonna print anything. If there wasn't something to print, they wouldn't have printed it. [[Speech of disapproval.]] I was followed by State Security from 1969 to 1978. I'm counting on my phones being recorded. It's nothing special. We just all have to count on it, because there are services that, of course, can and can. But we all need to act so that we don't give journalists any excuse to write anything. So it doesn't bother me, and on the other hand, I'm glad that we just have journalists among us who write it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u51	Thank you for complying with the time limit and I ask whether - Mrs Němcová - is signing up for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u52	Perhaps first to Mr Štětin. We will certainly not understand each other on this issue, and I absolutely reject your insinuation that, for example, it might bother me that things are being made public that convict people of crime. I am convinced, and so our legal order is conceived, so that none of the citizens of the Czech Republic can complain that he has not received a legal process. [[10.40 hours]] The legal process means that you are not exposed to the media lynch in advance without any evidence that you did or did not do anything. History teaches us how easy this media propaganda lynch is. Just remind the era, perhaps the hardest era after World War II, the 1950s in Czechoslovakia, when the voice of the people called after the execution of Dr. Milada Horáková, because he was processed by the hatred that spread, and he didn't know what she had done or didn't know whether all the screamings that the Attorney General Urválek was screaming at the time of the radio, if it had any real basis at all. Still, people have petitioned races, schools, and I don't know where everywhere to have Dr. Milada Horáková executed. I'm talking about this principle where no one is supposed to spy on our privacy. I refuse your thesis: I am prepared for the fact that I do not know what kind of services they are here for, so they listen to me. I act so as not to give them cause to prosecute me in any way or to have something against me. I'm not ready for this. I am not ready for the Czech state to organise services for taxpayers' money that listen to them, spy on them, map their privacy, after which they have nothing at all. I want to live in a normal free society that rules something out. I've been talking about leaking wiretaps, and the Prime Minister's got a little bit of a heads-up, which, for example, is leaking from the police. Please, colleagues, try to tell me how a fair trial is going, if, at a time when a medium has contacts with the police, the police somehow give it to him for some purpose or just for the police to have it good, he gives information which then deforms the course of justice and completely exclude any person who encounters it from receiving that constitutional right to a fair trial. I'm just not ready for this stalking thing. I don't want us to go back to the time of communism when StB here had all the wires on everyone and spying on everyone. I think that a free, advanced democratic society must defend itself against such practices. And if I was talking about the fact that these facts, the disclosure of these sensitive things, harm anyone's fair trial, I wasn't just talking about politicians. I'm also talking about people who have fallen into this, they don't even know how and they find themselves in the mill of the media world, they're tabloiding their lives, they're destroying their lives, they're suffering from their families, so I just have to reject this principle. I am glad that I feel at least, if I am not mistaken, that in this respect I find some basic agreement with the Prime Minister. And if there is anything else I should recommend to Mr Štětin as reading, if he reads the Mrázek of Mrázka, it is his business, I might recommend to him a question concerning the defence of the freedom of people who have had something to say in the past, and I think their voice in the public space is valid, so let me quote - it will not be the whole article, but it will be some of the stats of the article Bohumil Doležal Central Europe - profiled, narrated. This article was published on Echo 24 on 1 July 2014. I apologize to the author because I will actually choose, but by saying the source, the date, everything, you can look up the text and read the whole text. But yet I quote: In general, since the beginning of the millennium, wiretapping has been massively leaking from police investigations into the media, especially to the Mladá fronta DNES, which is now the flagship of the media fleet of Oligarcha Babiš. This was also the case in Nagyová-Nečas, which led to the collapse of the government and the transformation of the political situation in the Czech Republic and which has since devastated Czech journalism, politics and intervention by the judiciary. The fact that the media control policy and strive for transparency is natural is part of democracy. Unnatural, however, is the mania of eavesdropping, reporting, spying and all sorts of indiscretions that captured not only our region but the entire Western world. Terrible cases are the WikiLeaks affair or the Edward Snowden case. Activities of this type break the boundaries between efforts to ensure transparency and the duty of the state or community of states to take care of the security of citizens. Diplomacy of its nature cannot be transparent and secret services all over the world are sometimes not allowed to be transparent, and efforts to maximize openness easily grow in treason. Freedom and democracy are possible only in the society of certainty - where there is the loyalty of citizens to the country in which they live and to each other. And the basic concept is trust. Freedom and democracy also suffer in the atmosphere of general distrust. All simple recipes for a radical, revolutionary solution to a crisis situation only lead to the replacement of the bad even worse. The transformation of a society of pigs into a society of civilized people is a painful and long-term process and cannot be dealt with by stick, strict laws and strict law enforcement authorities, which is the ideology of many citizens' initiatives of our great anti-corruption revolution. The role of a savior is also very unfortunate: a simple working man, if he is also a billionaire, the better, who comes to overthrow the 23-year-old government of politicians who steal and do not work. Both the organs and the savior want to complement each other. At the threshold of our freedom in 1990, good will was still needed in society for freedom and democracy. Looks like we blew it today. Finally, a free society that also gives citizens a sense of security and security also includes the right to privacy and discretion, for all, including for politicians, because politicians are also people. Today, it seems that man is not safe even in bed or - I will not supply it where. Looks like we're living in a kind of hysterical simulation of impenetrable freedom: under the pressure of fanatical fools pretending to be moral absolutists, a world that can't be lived in, a world that reminds me too much of what we were dirty, torn and bruised out of 25 years ago. So many pieces of text that I consider important on this subject. I apologise to the Prime Minister, because I understand that this is somewhat out of the discourse that we have been conducting with each other through my interpelation, but Mr Štětina has expanded it. And I, without any effort to escalate this debate, must mention that I cannot forget the work of one of the former politicians of the party, of whom Mr Štětina was a member - Public Vít Bárta's things and his great and special interest in activities in the search for people's privacy. I don't understand what you're saying about not being okay with it. Personally, it bothers me very much and I consider it the grave of a democratic and free society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u53	Thank you. I now ask for a microphone with a factual remark from Mr Zlatuška and a Mr Štětina will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u54	Madam President, what Mrs Němcová said here. I think that, on the one hand, in that quoted passage, she made a bit of a mess of the fall of Nečasův' government. Although there was mention that one of the problems was what took place in bed - I would add that it was paid out of public money. But it was linked to the ownership of Mafra. As far as I know, Mafra was bought by Andrej Babiš much later. But the important thing that stays out of the wiretap is if this isn't the interest of those who are involved in the investigation. Their lawyers have access to the files. The moment the wiretap gets out, then you can use absurd analogy with the Milada Horáková trial and suggest that there may be some mass letters that affect our justice based on these published wiretaps. This is public manipulation, this is manipulation by the process that should occur, and this, as a result, harms the citizens of this country, civil society itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u55	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone with the de facto Mr. Štětina.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u56	Thank you again, then. I don't want to escalate the situation, of course, but I have a few things to say for the sake of order. One. I was only on a public matter list, and I wasn't even a member of Public Affairs, and I wasn't. Two. I do not believe that there are so many Members among us who remember the 1950s. I actually remember them. And I remember very well the trial with Milada Horáková, and I also remember my parents saying to me, "Please don't talk about it anywhere, or we'll all be locked up." Of course, I do not wish that this time would come back here again. I think there's an agreement between us. I also agree with the Prime Minister's explanation. I'm fine with what he said. He's right. One last thing. Madam President, I have experienced very well with my own skin what a media lynch is. When I became uncomfortable that I took the liberty of criticizing a major corruption scandal, the Czech TV filmed a show about me that I was supposed to kill a patient because I didn't go from one case to another. It almost messed up my family, it was a trial, an independent court that gave me very mixed feelings and, of course, I lost it. So no one has to tell me what a media lynch is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u57	Thank you. I'm registering two applications. First of all, Mr Plzák, and then Mrs Pilsen, for a proper debate. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u58	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that Němcová wants to live in a democratic free society. That's what we all want to live. But what has been built here in the past few years? There's been something built here that Američan call crony capitalism, crony capitalism. This is because the one who is better, cheaper, better in business is not victorious in a free democratic society, but the one who has the cronies. Companions with the authorities, associates with the political parties, etc. And that's what those people who didn't vote for you afterwards just didn't want. And we don't want that either. So don't tell us you want to go back to that free democratic society that was here before. We don't want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u59	Thank you. Now please get to the microphone of Mrs. Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u60	Thank you. Yes, it's not an easy debate. I understand that we are touching very sensitive and painful things, but in such a case, I would have to tell my predecessor and remind him to stand up, too, when he has seen the Czech Republic here for the past 25 years only as a community of cronies and strange people, to what one of the very popular media people, Ivo Rittig, whom I have never seen in my life, has never spoken to him, but he said so at the address of the chairman of your movement, the owner of Agrofert. The moment Andrej Babiš - perhaps you will find it, please - criticized exactly the corruption according to Andrej Babiš's system of past years, Ivo Rittig said to him a text: But Andrea, you better not talk too much, we know how it was. I would very much appreciate it if you could prove that you already have that forefinger pointed at you permanently and you have dehonested for the past 25 years, if you could also show at least a minimum of self-esteem in that you will also look at yourself and not look for guilt just for the others. As far as Mr Zlatuška is concerned, I have not tampered with anything, but I have made it clear that I am reading a text that is not my text that I am reading an article published by Mr Bohumil Doležal. I totally agree with this article, those thesises are close to me, but it was no manipulation. I ask you to refrain from such statements next time or listen better when someone is speaking before you respond to them. I am simply convinced, perhaps even in connection with the recent state holiday that we celebrated, so I looked at the Steno records from the first Republic, which are in the archives of the Chamber of Deputies, and I was looking at the role of a free and democratic society that Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, who, on 22 December 1918, stood in front of the National Assembly at Prague Castle on 22 December 1918 and as the new president of the newer state, defined the tasks of this state not only in the field of economics, not only in the field of education, not only in the field of foreign, but he said one sentence that is not so often quoted, and it seems to me that it is very well suited to today's debate. He said, "Justice is the mathematics of humanity." I think that this is a sentence that might blink in our heads as a warning beacon, and we should understand when we talk about what both justice and humanity do to our society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u61	Thank you. Now I have two factual points. With the first to the microphone of Mr Plzák and then Mr Zlatuška will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u62	Thank you. That's just gonna be a very short reaction. I mean, a text like that, if I want to make a joke out of someone, everybody writes. You wouldn't believe it. And I'm just talking about democracy. This is where it happened that these people really became ashamed of our free and democratic society that we had here in the last, I don't know, ten years. The fact that we had somewhere - that our kids wanted to live here - it wasn't because we made it up. Whoever hangs out with these younger people, let them be my colleagues at work, they really told you that they just don't want to live here. That they don't want to live here and that they'd rather go abroad because they were ashamed of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u63	Thank you. Now, please get to Mr. Zlatuška' microphone. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u64	Madam President, if there is any way of explaining to Mrs Němcová that it is correct to say that she is also manipulating it when she quotes the manipulative text of the commentator and identifies with it. Otherwise, about the other thing she said, the same dictum she chose, I could say that one of the bookstore owners here quoted from a text message from Mr. Rittig, who she tried to pretend to have never seen, plus text messages are in the mailing secret mode. What can I say?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u65	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Novotný's action, and then Mrs Němcová will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u66	Good morning. I'll try to be brief. I didn't want to enter the debate at all. In my political party in recent years, in many cases, I have fought very often in a competitive fight against people who have symbolized for me what this political party should not look like. I've had a lot of fights like this. Sometimes I lose in them, sometimes I win in them. These people, who symbolized for me how this political party should not look, often boasted of their business contacts. They named all sorts of names. The name Andrej Babiš was never missing between these names. It was always a name that was part of that gray zone of these people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u67	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with the de facto Mrs Němcová. Mr. Plzák will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u68	It's so easy here. Mr Zlatuška believes that I am very familiar with Ivo Rittig. I repeat, I didn't see Ivo Rittig, I didn't talk to him, I never met him personally. If I've seen him, it's a picture in the paper. To me, Mr Pilsen, through Madam President, Ivo Rittig cannot send a text as much as anyone can send a joke text to everyone. He can't because he doesn't have a phone on me for years and he doesn't have me in his database of useful contacts. He just can't send me a text like that. And I will not be offended by you here, because in order to cover up what I was talking about in my first interview, i.e. the criminal disruption of the Czech Republic through the influence of the media, economic and political, the gigantic conflict of interest, you are here trying to challenge a person who has faithfully sought the values of democracy and freedom throughout his political process. And I'm not gonna get out of it. I am also confirmed by voters who have given me five confidences again and sent me to the Chamber of Deputies with an increasing number of votes. That's what I wanted to say to margo this for me a completely pathetic discussion on the part of two of my previous speakers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u69	Thank you. Since the eleventh hour struck, I'm interrupting this interpellation. Not a minute. It's 11:00 p.m., we're shutting down the interpellation for this day. I'm interrupting this interpelation and we're going to deal with it at the next hearing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, after the written interventions, we already have a fixed item 70, and then we would continue with other points according to the approved agenda for this meeting. Please note that we have a fixed election block for 12.30 hours, points 102, 103, 104 and 105. I'm still asking if anyone is applying for an amendment to the approved programme of the 19th meeting. I have Mr. Sklenák's application here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to propose some amendments to today's agenda. As I announced to the presidents of the MPs yesterday, I propose that we discuss four ratifications in the following order now, before we get to that one fixed point. First paragraph 89, House printing 285, which is the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Serbia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, and then three second readings, paragraph 73, House printing 138, ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the population and birth numbers section, paragraph 74, House printing 139, Protocol on the prevention, repression and punishment of trafficking in human beings, and paragraph 75, House printing 140, Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in the fight against crime. Then it would be followed by a point that we have already firmly ranked. The second proposal relates to today's programme after the end of oral interventions, when we would include three more points in the Gesture of Minister Marksová, on the one hand, paragraph 71, press 136, which is ratification of the Supplementary Treaty amending the Treaty on Social Security between the Czech Republic and the United States of America. Point 52, House press 296, Government proposal for the Employment Act, and paragraph 49, House press 277, draft law amending the Act on salaries and other formalities relating to the exercise of the office of State officials. So many of my suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u71	Yes, thank you. The next envoy is Mr Herman, Mr Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u72	Thank you, Madam President. As a draftsman, I propose to withdraw the item by selecting the members of the Council of the State Fund of Culture of the Czech Republic because there is no danger of delay and I found that there are some communication noises that need to be clarified. So I suggest we withdraw this item from the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u73	Thank you. I also register Mr Klán's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u74	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to make two proposals here to amend the approved agenda. The first proposal is the elimination of Election Point 104, the election of the Head of Parliament's Permanent Delegation to the Central European Initiative, because of the interruption of this item in the Election Commission. The second proposal is the inclusion of a new electoral point, which bears the name of the Proposal for the election of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the examination of serious errors which occurred during the construction of the D47 motorway. I propose to put this point firmly on this Friday, 31. 10th, press 82/7, item 3 of our program, which is the president of the Children's Group Act. First, however, at 11:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u75	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is applying to the program. It's not like that. Before we proceed to the vote on the proposals, I will ask for peace in the House. Before we proceed to the vote, I will ask Mr Klán to reiterate his proposal, especially the new point, so that we know exactly where you want to put it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u76	It'd be after point three tomorrow, but it's got to be at 11:30 first. [[Question from the Bureau off the microphone.]] No, the third point of the meeting, after the President's veto, for that point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u77	Okay. For the President's veto, but at 11:30 at the earliest. Please, Mr Stanjura, who is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u78	I would like to ask Mr Klán not to be so messy about this. Just say 11:30. Not after the third point, but first at 11:30. The vote is 11.30, it's simple and no matter how many points we do before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u79	Well, I ask Mr Klán if he wants to correct his proposal. Please be kind enough to load it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u80	I will comply with Mr Stanjur - to include him firmly tomorrow at 11.30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u81	Thank you, so I'm sure it'll be easier. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal for the program. This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote on the basis of individual proposals. First of all, Mr Sklenák's proposals, that is to say, the inclusion of points 89, 73, 74, 75 before the already fixed point, which is before item 70. I ask whether we can vote on all these proposals at the same time. I don't see any objection here. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 105, to which 147 are registered, for 130. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will now consider Mr Sklenák's second proposal, and that is the inclusion of paragraphs 71, 52 and 49 at today's oral interview. I ask if we can vote on all proposals at once. I don't see an objection. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 106, to which 149 are registered, for 102, against 16. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will now consider the proposal by Minister Herman to withdraw the vote of Members of the State Fund for Culture. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 107, to which 150 are registered, for 125, against 10. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. [[11.10 hours]] We will now consider Mr Klán's proposal. - I'm sorry. The first proposal is to remove the item from the already approved programme and it is item 104. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of eliminating this point. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 108, to which 150 are registered, for 124, against one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will now consider the proposal for the inclusion of a new point, which is called - please, Mr Klánek, to check me - it is the proposal for the election of members to the committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic D47. He's asking for a solid assignment for tomorrow, Friday 31. 10:00, 11:30. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 109, to which 150 are registered, for 137. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-30-ps2013-019-06-001-132.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We'll continue as we approved the program. The first point I open is
