ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 146/2002 Coll., on the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended /German press 86/ - second reading The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government will also be presented here by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, my dear fellow Member, to present this proposal to this House press. It is a government bill amending Act No. 146/2002 Coll., on State Agricultural and Food Inspection and amending certain related laws, as amended. The purpose of the proposed legislation is to respond to experience with the application of Act No. 146/2002 Sb. and some problems in the food market. The proposed changes are intended to increase the efficiency of the performance of consumer control and protection by introducing new types of measures, such as the introduction of a new form of measures of a general nature, which should in particular give rise to the possibility of a rapid response to cases requiring immediate intervention. At the same time, changes are made in connection with the adoption of the new Act No. 255/2012 Coll., on control, which became effective on 1 January 2014. The proposed proposal contains in particular a new effective system of measures imposed by the State Agricultural and Food Inspections in the event of deficiencies. These are the following measures: classical measures notified in control and effective in relation to a controlled person within the territorial scope of the inspectorate, the inspector of which has issued the measure. Measures with effects exceeding the territorial scope of the inspectorate in the event that there is reasonable suspicion that a breach of the legislation by a controlled person has occurred outside the territorial scope of the controlling inspectorate, for example in the case of dangerous foodstuffs placed on the market within a single chain of trade. A measure of a general nature under the Administrative Code with effects exceeding the territorial scope of the inspectorate, which obliges not only a controlled person but also an unspecified group of other persons, for example, in the case of dangerous foods placed on the market by a larger number of entities. By increasing the effectiveness of the exercise of control and adapting legislation to the new rules of control, the authorisation of inspectors to access controlled premises shall be introduced. A new measure is hereby introduced in order to prohibit the use of premises, unless a controlled person allows the inspector to enter land, buildings or other premises. The authorisation of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority is hereby established to obtain data from the basic registers to the extent necessary. The Government's bill was discussed at its 6th meeting on 16 April 2014 by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies for approval. No amendments have been tabled in the context of the discussion of the Government's draft law by the Agricultural Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u3	I thank the Minister for his clear report. I ask now that the rapporteur of the Committee of the Agricultural Member Petr Bendl take the floor. The proposal was directed to the Agricultural Committee and the Committee's resolution was delivered to you as House prints 86/1 and 2. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal still comes from Petr Nečas's workshop. This legislative regulation responded to the methyl alcohol case that took place in the Czech Republic and which required some clarification precisely in the powers of inspectors, which this standard takes place, as the Minister said here. I am convinced that it would be worthwhile for the standard to be amended by the obligation to liquidate - if it comes to marooned wine so that such a product is disposed of so that its subsequent technical processing cannot occur elsewhere. So that no one tries to get away with it that if he gets away with it, he can process alcohol somewhere else. Otherwise, I think this amendment is well-worked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which I am registering the application of Mr Josef Vozdecký. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government. [[President: One member of the Government.]] Two. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Bendl has already said to the rapporteur of this press, I have prepared amendments to this press which concern the issue of wine. It is related to the adaptation of the new legislation provided for in Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The 17th December of last year's 1308/2013 and the point is to incorporate this issue into the present law. Pursuant to this Regulation, the obligation to dispose of vine products which cannot be placed on the market under national supervision pursuant to this Article has been newly laid down. I dare to say on this occasion that for centuries the agricultural production of Moravian but also the Czech countryside has been an integral part of winery and that in the last 15 years, thanks to the continuous work of Czech and Moravian winemakers, it has had a great boom and an increase in quality. That's very gratifying. But recently, a new type of fraud has become more widespread in our country, namely the falsifying of the geographical origin of wine. These are cases where a dishonest winemaker or seller falsely declares foreign wine as originating in Bohemia or originating in Moravia, whether it is the production of wine from cheaper imported grapes from abroad or imported wine from abroad to Bohemia and Moravia. In both cases, however, it is consumer deception, and we can call it the black market for quiet wines. Such wines are usually of lower quality, but they are sold at a price as Czech or Moravian, i.e. at a price higher, at a price comparable to the prices of real domestic wines, and the consumer then buys wine at a price which does not correspond to the quality declared on the label. [[12.10 hours]] The consequences on the market are clear. These are tax evasions from the state budget, the decline in the image of Czech and Moravian wine, the loss of consumer confidence, the loss of competitiveness of domestic wines and, of course, the economic loss and damage of Czech and Moravian winemakers. This problem is also evidenced by a higher number of findings of the State Agricultural and Food Inspections in controlled wines and their producers. And for honest and Czech and Moravian winemakers who represent these unfair practices by dishonest importers of foreign grapes and wines, an economic problem. The winemakers themselves already consider this situation to be serious. Moreover, when we were analyzing whether there was a government institution in the Czech Republic to deal with this type of fraud, we found that there were not enough tools to combat effectively for this form of black market. The second problem is a greater number of detected cases of dilution of quiet wines with water associated with artificial increase in the percentage of alcohol in a beverage and other unauthorized technological modifications. I am glad that Czech and Moravian winemakers support the new legislation laid down in the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union number 1308 last year and their insertion into the current law and uncompromising its implementation in the conditions of the Czech Republic. It is practically the authority of an inspector who may issue measures to which a controlled person, in the case of products which cannot be placed on the market under the Article of the Regulation, is required to completely dispose of, under national supervision, the cargo of a controlled person, i.e. to destroy, wine products such as wine, liqueur wine, sparkling wine, partial fermented grape must, which we call a burger, provided that they have undergone oenological practices which are not authorised or authorised at national level in the Union. They simply do not comply with the rules set out in the Annex to the regulation in question. I can give an example of such a non-compliant product of wine where the addition of water, sugar supplement, addition of alcohol, synthetic dye is found where it is not acceptable, or addition of glycerin, or wine which has been produced by the processing or addition of grapes or grape must from third countries and declared as wine originating in the Czech Republic. State agricultural and food inspection as the supervisory authority in the wine sector needs appropriate authorisation for inspectors to fulfil this obligation, and it is therefore necessary for the category of vine products within the meaning of Regulation No 1308/2013 to be added to Section 5 in the present legislation. Without this authorisation, this new European legislation could not be implemented at the level of national oversight. The next amendment is the amendment to Section 7 - supplementing the start of the check. This is the case in the case of import control, which is a specific type of control initiated by the customs authority at the moment it informs the inspection that it suspended the release of certain imported foodstuffs. The inspector shall, on the basis of the results of the inspection carried out, issue a binding opinion on agricultural products, foodstuffs or tobacco products whose release has been suspended by the customs authority within three working days of the date of notification by the customs authorities of the suspension of their release. Where the outcome of the check is not known within that period, the inspectorate shall inform the competent customs office of the inspection bows carried out and shall issue a binding opinion without delay following the completion of the inspection report. Nevertheless, official controls within the meaning of Chapter 5 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 on official controls should be carried out and specific arrangements should therefore be laid down for the start of checks for this type of inspection by the start of the check on the day on which the inspection receives the notification of suspension from the customs authority. Thus, in the law of Section 7 it is inserted that the first check is initiated by the delivery of a notification to the customs authority of suspension of inspections. Dear colleagues, all these amendments were discussed at the joint meeting of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Association of Winemakers of the Czech Republic with the participation of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and were agreed with them. So, Mr President, I am now signing up for a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u7	I thank the Member of Vozdecký for his speech. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. I do not see such a request, so I am ending the general debate and I am opening the debate in detail, in which Mr Vozdecký has already announced his application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed debate, I refer to the amendment under the number of House document 741, as it was entered into the system under this number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u9	I thank the Member of Vozdecký. The rapporteur is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also introduce you briefly and formally to the motion for a resolution of the Agricultural Committee from its 6th meeting on 16 April 2014, when the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Agriculture J Šnejdrla, the report by Petr Bendl and after the debate, first of all, Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Government bill amending Act No. 146/2002 Coll., on State Agricultural and Food Inspection and amending certain related laws, as amended, House Press 86, approve, and instructs the Chair of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-05-07-ps2013-008-04-003-005.u11	I thank the rapporteur for getting to know the resolution of the agricultural committee. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If this is not the case, I am ending with a detailed debate asking the Minister or the rapporteur if they are interested in the final word. They're not interested. That concludes the second reading of this proposal. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. We should now move on to the next point and this is the interrupted point of the Government Report on the development of a critical unemployment situation in the Czech Republic. I don't see the Prime Minister here who should probably be present at the atom point. In addition, at 12.30, I warn my honourable colleagues that we have firmly placed the electoral points to which we will have to deal. However, we still have 12 minutes until then, so let's continue at the point
