ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u1	25. Proposal of Members of Roman Sklenák, jeroný Tejc and others to issue a law amending Act No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other employees in administrative offices (service law) /German press 71/ - third reading I ask that Mr Roman Sklenák and Mr Jan Chvojka, the rapporteur of the constitutional law committee, take his place at the rapporteur's table. I also note that the amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 71/9. I am opening a debate in which I have one application for the priority right of President Tomio Okamura. I note that we can start the debate, and I ask the Member to take the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly summarize what has happened here in my view over the past days and weeks. When we talk about the Civil Service Act, it may be good to recall again why we want it, virtually. why our country really needs it and why no government has wanted it since 1993 when it was anchored in the Constitution. Professionalism is the key concept of public service. Mr President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u3	Mr President, I'm going to ask you to interrupt your interpretation for a moment, and I will ask the other colleagues to remain calm. If you have a subject to discuss other than the service law to bring this discussion into the foyer and allow those who have already signed up for three to speak in peace on this law, which has been discussed in this House for 12 years, although in different versions. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u4	When we talk about the Civil Service Act, it is good to remember why we want it, virtually. why our country needs it and why no government has wanted it since 1993 when it was enshrined in the Constitution. From our point of view, the key concept of public service is professionalism. Admission to the public service, career process, remuneration of officials should be governed only by professional considerations. The Service Act should lay down the basic principles for the civil service - impartiality, integrity, objective choice of service and service procedure - based on the criterion of competence and responsibility. The selection of civil servants should be based on an open competition which would result in the most capable workers and, last but not least, personnel depoliticisation of the public service is necessary; State authorities may not be tobacco shops for parties. But, of course, when a public service has to be a public service, it also has to work for the administration. For example, when the minister says "take these taxes this way," the government must comply with this political assignment. What is already clear today is that the existing government mutation of the law directly contradicts the model of an independent professional state service. On the contrary, in principle, it is already anchoring its dependence on the political leadership of the country, thanks to the principle that the head of the state administration is essentially appointed by the Prime Minister. It is clear from the amendments to the law that other colleagues in the House, across the political spectrum, are aware of this fact, and therefore propose to remove one or the office or the head of office or certain workers from the scope of this law, with a justification for maintaining their independence. In other words, many of us are aware that this law, in this form, does not make state administration independent and depolitical. This, however, directly contradicts the demands of the European Commission, which the Minister, Mr Dienstbier, had recently pathetically and lyingly chased around. On the contrary, it turns out that he did not deliberately lie for the first time, because the European Commission wants the exact opposite of Prime Minister Sobotka's coalition government. For one thing, the European Commission stresses that the legal scope should fall as far as possible, and I quote 'all public service bodies regardless of their legal status', and of course adds that - once again, I quote'speed should never be at the expense of the quality of the regulation'. Then why did Prime Minister Sobotka and Human Rights Minister Dienstbier and others lie to us? Why did they say we'd lose 500 billion if we didn't accept their law? Because they wanted to put pressure on us to accept the pasquil, which would allow Mr Sobotka to concrete his cross-traders to the highest positions in the state administration. That is why the appellants changed the section on the appointment of the Director-General of State Service, under the authority of the President, and gave this authority to Mr Sobotek. This is something that, of course, grossly contradicts the very meaning of the law and what we need, both we and what the European Union expects from us. I dare say that we would reap greater criticism of the Union for the approval of the prosobotka version than when the law is still under discussion for some time. Of course, the bill has many more mistakes that have already been mentioned and will certainly mention other speakers. However, I would like to emphasise for us that the basic principle must be the staffing of the state administration from the ruling politicians. The principle is that the head of state administration is not appointed Prime Minister, but a president who is directly elected and is a counterweight party government in the House. I therefore ask you once again to support this amendment of ours. The current version of the Úsvit Act cannot be supported. Of course, we will continue to have a constructive discussion in order to get together versions acceptable across the House. However, the discussion here in the House seems endless and it is clear that it is time to find sufficient time for a consensus across the political spectrum. Therefore, in accordance with Section 95 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I propose and make a motion to return this law to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u5	Thank you, Mr Tomie Okamur, and since only those who do not have preferential rights are on the board, I will first repeat the procedure. Now Minister Dienstbier will speak, then with priority rights for the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club František Laudát, then the President of the club and the plaintiff Roman Sklenák, then the President of the Fiala Club, and then I have a duly registered colleague Adamec and Černoch. That's the order of entry so far. I will now ask Minister Jiří Dienstbier to take the floor in the third reading. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to comment on the current course of the law, as well as on certain requirements that have been raised not only here in the House, but especially on the part of the right-wing opposition, the ODS and the TOP 09, as well as at the press conference and in other ways. We have tried to present here, I think, very good reasons why the proposal we are discussing here is well worked out, although, as I have pointed out, such a proposal will always be the subject of some compromise and will never be 100% satisfied with the result. However, it sets out the prerequisites for us to have independent, professional and stable government in the future, including meeting the conditions imposed on us by membership of the European Union, what we have committed ourselves to with our membership and voluntarily committed ourselves to. Now, then, to the four demands raised by the right-wing opposition. I would like to stress that the way they were presented, and I would also stress that these are absolutely fundamental conceptual moments in the bill, I have also said here that the method is blackmailing. It is not possible to be blackmailed in style: "You will either approve what we want or nothing will be." This is what opposition representatives have explicitly said, namely Miroslav Kalousek at the end of the second reading, when he made it very clear that either we realize that there will be no Directorate-General or there will be no law. Besides being a blackmailer, he's stupid. I'll explain for what reason. At present, Law No. 211/2002. This law happened to be postponed by the previous government, on the proposal of the then Minister of Labour, Mr Drábek, by three years with effect from 1 January 2015. In other words, if the opposition leads obstruction here and prevents the amendment from being adopted, on 1 January the service law will become effective in its original version. And now let's look at this in terms of four requirements. The first requirement is the release of the General Directorate of State Service, because it is said to be some kind of super office. The Directorate-General of State Services is not a super office, because both the Director-General and the State Secretaries at the various ministries will essentially address the personnel issues of the state service in a slightly wider sense, but basically personalism. If the current version of the law becomes effective, then we will actually have a hint of a super-office here, because the Director General will be appointed as President on a proposal from the Government, i.e. purely politically, and not on the basis of a selection procedure, but on the basis of the free reflection of the Government and the President, because now in the submitted draft amendment to the Service Act, the selection procedure for candidates for the Director-General must be passed, as well as, in its up-to-date version, the State Secretary-General shall appoint, on a proposal from the Minister, the Director-General of the Civil Service. So the Director General of State Services appoints all state secretaries and these state secretaries will not be strengthened by personalists, these state secretaries will be in charge of individual ministries, because they will be senior directors of sections at individual ministries and the minister will communicate with the whole office through the State Secretary. In other words, on this matter, the right-wing opposition will achieve the opposite. He will have a much stronger Directorate-General and he will have a state secretary who will be in charge of the office in a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u7	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House again for peace. Please transfer any calls to the foyer and let the Minister speak in peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u8	I've been in worse situations, so far it's screaming. [[Okay, go ahead.]] As regards the second requirement for the Deputys to remain in the current regime while at the same time being the level of governance in the civil service. Not to mention that this is a politicisation of the state administration, because we think that at the level of section directors there should be officials who will have an independent status, as we propose, and again, if the opposition succeeds in building up the adoption of this amendment and the valid version of the 2002 Service Act becomes effective, the Deputys will not be at all the level of management, and they will not even be able to manage the individual sections, because, as I have already said, this section will be managed even by the Minister, as we propose, respectively, giving instructions to the directors of the sections, but the Director of the sections will be tasked by the Secretary of State, because he will be in charge of the Office. So, once again, it is a completely stupid approach, because the opposition will achieve the complete opposite - strengthening the State Secretary in the substantive management of individual ministries. Let us look at the third demand of the right-wing opposition, and this is a greater penetration of the public service. Not only from self-government, but also from academic environment and business. If we look at what we are proposing here now and at the amendments that we have promised to support, the transparency of this proposal is quite large. In addition to the recognition of the special competence test, which is composed by local authorities, we propose to recognise the practice in self-government. We propose that practice should also be recognised in international organisations and in an academic environment. And if the opposition succeeds and blocks the discussion of this amendment and the original law applies, then zero penetration will not only be from business, not only from academic backgrounds, but also from self-government, because the valid version of the Service Act contains a completely closed career system without any penetration. Once again, a completely stupid move by the opposition, when it reaches the opposite of what it declares. And let us look at the last requirement that the supposed protection of civil servants should not be granted to these officials until four years later. The opposition probably misread the bill because the amendment that we are discussing does not contain any tenure for civil servants, so it is not clear what rights should be passed on to them after four years and what would be the four years. They'd be in some completely outlawed position. Once again, if the opposition succeeds in blocking the discussion of this amendment, what it will achieve. It will have all current civil servants transferred to the service, with tenure, with a retainer, with a 25% contribution to the civil service. Officials will be happy because they will do very good on salary, but the opposition will achieve exactly the opposite of what it declares. So we're getting back to the summary. Apart from the fact that the procedure is blackmailing, it is still stupid, because on all four points the legislation will be the opposite of what the opposition declares as its goal. So it is unclear to me what ODS and TOP 09 want to achieve by trying to reconstruct and block the adoption of the proposed amendment. It's really stupid. I don't know how else to judge. Now one more comment on the alleged lies, as the European Commission wants us to do or does not really want us to do. We argued here in second reading on January 1st as the last date of the law's effectiveness. From the point of view of European funds, the European Commission's demand is even stricter, even worse for the Czech Republic. The European Commission is not sufficient for the effectiveness of 1 January 2015, but even requires the law to be passed before it comes to the approval and signing of individual operational programmes on the basis of which more than 500 billions are to be drawn. [[12.10 hours]] We are counting on operational programmes to be approved this autumn. In other words, delays in drawing or blocking, if the law is not approved, will start this autumn and not until 1 January 2015. Even before we acted in Brussels, the situation was even worse. The European Commission even made it conditional on the approval of the Act on the conclusion of the Partnership Agreement, which is a prior step up to the approval of operational programmes. If we had not convinced them that our intention to approve a law that would ensure a professional, stable and independent civil service, it is not serious that we will really do everything we can to ensure that such state service legislation in the Czech Republic applies, we would not be able to conclude a partnership agreement either. And for the record, we're counting on closing it because the text is already done in August. So in August, we wouldn't have a partnership agreement. We still do not have operational programmes in the autumn if the service law is not passed and, of course, it still applies and it is in the Partnership Agreement as our commitment on the basis of negotiations with the European Commission that we must have the effectiveness of the Service Act from 1 January 2015. As regards the comments from the European Commission, which were read here at the meeting last week at second reading, we have expressed our views on all these comments, they are actually included in the Service Act. In the vast majority of these comments are the subject of explanation, because in the law it usually is. In the amendment that was loaded at second reading, you will find an extension of the service promise, which is a response to the European Commission's demand that the values of the public service be better described in the law, so we have made it even the subject of the promise. And in terms of content, we came out of staff regulations, which is actually a service law for officials of the European Commission. In other words, we have gone to the level that the European Commission itself requires of its officials. I think it will be difficult for the European Commission to object that we would fail to meet its demands in this case. And, of course, we have our own space to fulfill the civil service while respecting the basic parameters, which are also based on country-specific recommendations, which the European Commission gives each country on the basis of an evaluation of the so-called. The European Semester, and we believe that we will enter into these limits with the proposal and that we are able to defend this proposal before the European Commission. Perhaps one last remark, and it concerns the reconstruction of the state. On the part of the right-wing opposition, there was an argument about how the State's reconstruction criticizes the bill. You probably managed to scare the State's reconstruction in such a way, including the four demands I mentioned here that it had no choice but to issue a press release the next day after the second reading, that if the four demands of the right-wing opposition were met, the Civil Service Act would become virtually unnecessary, completely empty, because it would not have led to the fulfilment of the objectives pursued at all. So much for the debate that has taken place here and the opposition's demands. I hope that in light of these arguments and the opposition, respectively. The part of the opposition that wants to lead obstruction will reconsider its position. We are willing to discuss some of the amendments. As I said, we are able to strengthen the passability of the public service not only from self-government but also from the academic environment. Yes, let us discuss concrete amendments, let us stop blackmailing ourselves here, on the one hand, with ultimative demands, and by not discussing the law at all, unless the right-wing opposition is fully complied with in these key matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u9	I thank the Minister and now Mr František Laudát will speak, Mr Roman Sklenák will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think Minister Jiří Dienstbier has started in the worst way he could have started. I knew your father as the great gentleman I took off from, and I'm sorry you're so different. I think the words blackmail, nonsense, stupidity after Friday's extempora should be used to a very limited extent. We, together with the ODS, have come up with some conditions or demands, with the fact that we expect you and Prime Minister Sobotka, in particular, to withdraw from this absolutely harsh position that you are presenting in the media, and you will actually act. This law, and I repeat, has fallen a thousand times here, simply beyond the horizon of one electoral term, can fundamentally prevent the ideas of always winning party or coalition, as you want, how to manage this country, and therefore what you have called us to do in the past, that consensus must be reached on pension reform, but at the same time you have said no to all proposals, there have been different groups, negotiating teams, so you are doing this brutally. I've recorded signals that you're really alone in this. It has also been said from its own social democracy that some of the demands are for discussion. The only way to enforce this key law is to find it absolutely unbelievable and extremely unhappy. The President will tell the winner of the election that at least something has to be passed through the first reading, the Members here, rushed through the first reading of utter nonsense, something completely different will happen in the second reading. I don't think so - the rapporteurs and the authors of the material who signed it obviously wrote it. I can't believe they sat down and were able to write such a complex legal amendment on their own. In the weird discussion, no one even said what basis amendments are being loaded on, which can again be - of course, factually, it can be traced whether it was to the law that was presented at first reading or in second - however, for such an important standard another possible legislative problem, even if it can be overcome. What is supposedly the blackmail of ODS and TOP 09: the abolition of the Institute of Directorate General. The highest official at each office shall be the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State is appointed and dismissed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister. The Office of the Government grants accreditation to universities for administrative examinations and education. I don't personally consider this blackmail. Of course, we will be fundamentally different. 2. Openness of state service at all levels for self-government officials as well as representatives of the academic and private sphere, subject to the provision of an administrative examination and appropriate practice in the field. 3. Maintaining the Deputys as Head of the Service Office. Cancellation of the function of deputy officers for the management of the section and leaving one type of deputy, which will not be covered by the Service Act, but will have managerial powers. 4. Ensuring human continuity and stability. The protection provided by the law will apply to officials who have worked in public administration for more than four years. I believe that whoever has experienced at any level, whether it was at the level of the community, the region or the Republic, the behaviour of officials - some, I note - the government must be seen in these requirements. We are not building these demands as an ultimatum, but as a basis for the negotiations of all the political parties in the House, so that their leaders try to find a compromise solution. Maybe they won't find him. Then, of course, it will be a power act, but you have almost a constitutional majority, so show yourself. However, we call on you to negotiate with this proposal. [[12.20 hours]] About what has been said here from the European Union. Either you want to fulfill the ideals of the European Union de facto, then act accordingly, or de iure - you make empty gestures, as is the case with fiscal responsibility, fiscal compact and so on, or fill them. The European Union is clearly saying that it prefers quality to quantity, which we have been told before Minister Dientsbier, I think. Since the Minister is telling us again that the demands for quick approval are harder... We didn't get a single piece of paper on the table. Isn't it really worth giving out opinions, whether in the original or in the translation here on the table, when you say: we don't negotiate, we don't have time, we don't know how? I do not know what proposal the European Union has made in advance, their demands, their recommendations, their opinion does not in any way lead to blackmail. Since they have not been responded to here - the general claim that everything has been incorporated there, I do not accept it, because if it had been incorporated, it would not have been expressed with comments. Or do you, Minister - although he should fight for this law here, defending it, Minister of the Interior, not Minister Dientsbier, I am deeply convinced of that, because the Home Office is responsible for the administration of the state. I'm gonna read them here one more time anyway. 1. Scope 1.1. Article 1 defines the public authorities and employees covered by the law. [[all employees, administrative units of the State under other legislation and other staff]] Article 2 defines staff excluded from the scope of this Act. The principle should be such that all public service bodies, irrespective of their legal status, should fall within the scope of the law, all possible exceptions should be justified. In order to increase transparency, the list of bodies and staff excluded from the scope of the law should be published. Does this look like blackmail to you? Point 1.2. However, we understand that many administrative bodies are not formally administrative components of the state, in any case they are budget or contribution half-budgetary organisations, legal persons of the state authority, usually ministries. These authorities should fall within the scope of the law. For example, the Centre for Regional Development does not seem to apply to the current bills. Again. You voted for the implementing law here at first reading. Which of you is certain of the consequences of the cuts that will do this - this has been said here from Mr Benda - to institutions that need independence? Landscape conservation organisations, funds and so on. 1.3. The independence of the institutions should not be a priori justification for not applying the law. In this sense, the current situation, where only the Labour Code applies to part of the employees, does not seem sufficient and satisfactory. 1.4. In the draft law there is a provision - Article 11 - that both categories of employees - see comment 1.1. - comply with the same provisions of service issued by the Directorate-General of State Services - not yet established - which should ensure the essential consistency between these two categories, only with regard to the organisational aspect. As far as the content of the service regulations cannot be evaluated at this point, since they are only to be adopted, it is recommended that the second category should cover not only organisational aspects but also other important aspects referred to in Article 1 - service relationship, remuneration, evaluation, etc. 1.5. Moreover, even in government bodies, the second category of employees is not clearly defined - see Article 2, point (j). It should be noted that although they are not de jure civil servants, they de facto perform the functions of state or regional administration. 1.6. The law excludes not only political representatives but also those who work for them, i.e. persons working for political representatives. This means exempting a significant proportion of public service officials. No more detailed information is provided on the rules applicable to these officials, i.e. the recommended structure of the minimum/maximum number of Deputys or their collaborators, so that the wide range of exceptions cannot be assessed. In any event, the number of such officials should be limited to what is strictly necessary. 1.7. The Regional Councils are excluded by reference to the allegations of legislative restrictions, the solution of incompatibility, the conflict between Regional Officials Act No. 332/2002 Coll. and the Civil Service Act is not introduced. 1.8. Article 79 lays down the obligations of officials with regard to ethics and personal integrity. It would also be appropriate to include an explicit reference to the basic principles and values of the civil service, such as integrity, impartiality, objectivity, respect for the rule of law, efficiency; that is to say, a situation where a civil servant receives an order which he considers to be incorrect or likely leading to serious difficulties. I consider this comment to be one of the key points. If you do not want to bind the code of ethics or is underlawed, then how do you want to resolve the conflict between civil servants and politicians who will push officials into a corner and demand on them things that conflict with the code of ethics, with their internal conviction, with the laws of this country? You have heard here not from the mouth of the right-wing opposition something about coughing at standards or regulations. I don't know what that sounded like last week. 1.9. It is unclear why only some areas such as research, civil protection are specifically mentioned in Article 5, while many others are not - employment, education, the environment. In addition, more detailed specifications of these areas should be defined by a sub-law without any indication of the date of entry into force. 1.10. The legislation on the protection of informants, whistleblowers, seems inadequate. Measures to prevent conflicts of interest should also be developed and divorced in more detail. [[12.30 hours]] Group of comments second - Implementation, implementation plan, transitional period. 2.1. The planned entry into force on 1 January 2015 is generally welcome. However, the Commission has always stressed that speed should never be at the expense of the quality of regulations. Moreover, given more than a two-year transitional period, it is clear that some parts of the legislation will only enter into force after the law itself. I'd like to stop by a little bit after all. Here is a clear contradiction between what is in this position or in the preliminary opinion, with what you have heard here from the mouth of Minister Jiří Dienstbier. I really think that all Members from left to right have the right to the truth. This means the documented truth as to whether the European Union has already made a binding statement on this and, therefore, whether what the Minister says or what is in this preliminary view applies. I personally experienced a situation where the Ministry of Regional Development...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u11	Yes, I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask again for peace and debate on another subject, and I would ask them to bring their debates into the foyer. I would also ask that the rapporteurs keep an eye on the debate so that we do not neglect anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have seen Jiří Paroubek Věra Jourová on the monitoring committee of European projects by the then Deputy Minister for Regional Development Jiří Paroubek Věra Jourová, as always on - about once a quarter of a year - evaluation meetings with representatives of the European Union repeatedly fell: we are really concerned about the substance of the matter. You guys put together a complicated, complicated manual to get involved in. Make the rules clear, all right. And if I paraphrase it, don't let anyone manipulate anything, don't let it steal, make sure the money and the projects are well prepared, let healthy common sense reign there. The way you have prepared your rules is an almost positive strike, the kind of civil servants who, for example, have a forbidden strike in Germany are on strike. This means that they follow all the rules in the letter, written rules, regulations, directives, so in fact on the days when civil servants operate this way, the government will de facto stop. So this is what I consider necessary for Minister Dienstbier, or rather the legislators, to say clearly, or one of the other ministers dealing with European funds, to negotiate the next programming period. As for the same part, the Implementation, Implementation plan for the transitional period - point 2.2. Key parts of the law, such as remuneration, education systematics, state service tests, need to be developed through other specific implementing regulations, such as service regulations, decrees or methodologies. A detailed timetable should be drawn up and communicated to those planned implementing rules, which are now only available at work level. You know how good ideas end up in this country. In connection with the service law, I received several e-mails asking me how it is possible that a law is valid, but that it is not effective. So I explained that as far as complex standards are concerned, as was and is a new civil code and so on, so state, lawyers, the legal chamber and others, and, after all, citizens need to be prepared for such essential things first of all. So there's a different deadline. Unfortunately, for some of the laws that I believe should have been or should have been made clear, that is, the laws that serve citizens in particular and would simplify the lives of citizens of this country, such as a single collection point, the time lag between validity and effectiveness was used to make this law, which would fundamentally simplify life to virtually all citizens, or a substantial part of the citizens of the Czech Republic disappearing in fog, irrecoverable. Group three. Rewards. 3.1. We note that the regulation plans to use the existing remuneration system, in which different types of national supplementary payments and bonuses representing a flexible part of income form a relatively large proportion of the entire salary, leaving the contractual wage system. However, since a completely new and transparent system will be prepared during the two-year transitional period, this area cannot be fully assessed at the current stage. Moreover, it appears that the change in the remuneration system will be implemented not by law, but by decree. Despite the fact that this amendment should be prepared by the end of 2014, we recommend setting the principle of transparency more clearly in the law. You have won - I speak to the coalition - the election to promise citizens transparency, the definition of the system, predictability. So please start filling this in the law. 3.2. The remuneration system should be designed in such a way as to preserve the attractiveness of the public administration for young people. This would require some flexibility with regard to the level of recruitment fees for new recruits. See also the comments on point No below. 4. 4. Get in or out of service. [[4.1.]] At this point, I don't think we have all the grades, all the civil servants. As mushrooms arose after the rain in the Czech Republic high schools focusing on public service, public law, the public sector. And by this law, instead of throwing away historical burdens, and not revolutions after 20 or more years, but in an evolutionary, but fair way, people who link their careers with it, their status in life, their ideas of life, are actually threatening, according to your suggestions, that on the contrary, you will be saying to young people "go for a living" even though the lack of quality of some officials, with whom someone then hardly moves, will be obvious. 4.2. It is unclear why the Director-General of the Civil Service and his representative can only be selected from among existing officials. This is similar in the case of external experts in higher managerial positions. New officials may only be admitted to the heads of departments. [[12.40 hours]] Again. It's exactly where our number one point is headed. You really want to bridge the period when the citizens of this country will have other ideas, which political parties, who people are supposed to lead this country and with what ideas about solving specific problems. Today, although you have great preferences as a coalition after half a year, we all know that there will be months when you will blame everything on previous governments, you will not last the previous two or three periods. People's memory is short in this. People want changes in the short term, and now and surprisingly, statistical research from around the world shows that they are not too interested in them and that the long-term direction of which country or those issues is not essential to them. So I suppose, and a survey has been conducted in the Czech Republic, that you should bear this in mind. Moreover, the country's responsible government is not guided by immediate moods, but it is guided by vision, or promotes what it is actually convinced is right for this country. Point 4.3. Some additional qualifications requirements should also be laid down for senior management outside the requirement regarding the number of years spent in the civil service. The selection is expected to be carried out by a commission nominated and appointed only by the government. However, the advisory role of other independent bodies may be assumed as necessary. Clear rules for selection committees should be defined. Again. Does this seem like blackmail to you, Minister Dienstbier? As far as I know, this government, I don't know if any of the previous ones, I don't know, but you've set up some sort of inter-resurrection selection committee to fill seats so far, mostly in companies and companies with state participation. I don't know what position this intergovernmental commission, or inter-review committee, gave, I'm sorry, I don't know exactly what you call it, to fill the position of director of ŘSD four months ago, which she gave yesterday or Monday, as she gave an opinion on today's former management of Thermal Hotel in Karlovy Vary and others. No one can see into anyone, and if they are... [[unintelligible]] It's management positions here. You can say, well, that's where we can exchange them, which the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport did. Anyway. After all, this will take place in pale blue, I apologize to the ODS, if I insult it as far as colour is concerned, but this is a slogan, in pale blue it will take place with the selection of civil servants. It doesn't make a difference if you're choosing a company manager or a civil servant. You can put in qualifications, you can put in and check it out, you can chase in some quick information, or maybe more thorough, but you don't have to get them all, you can wait to cross over like it was, even if I don't know the details, in the case of ŘSD. It is not normal for a fifth change to take place in this highly important organization in the last year only at the level of the Director or the Director-General. There are other personnel purges, removals, firing, return, etc. I don't know how many people do it, and this institution with every other change, I feel it works worse and worse and worse. You can do the same at the level of the state administration. Therefore, I warn against it and completely understand it, not as blackmail, from Brussels. 4.4. The choice of all managers is the authority of the CEO, who is appointed politically by the government. It appoints all state secretaries, § 53 para. 2 and they subsequently appoint the rest of the management of state bodies, § 55 para. 2. So the question of political influence in public administration is not addressed by law, but by cascade effect. Even how to really depoliticize the administration, on this point, we would like to have a substantive and detailed debate on how to work this into the law, so that it is clear and safe. 4.5. The requirements for the release of managers should be clearly defined and include cases of serious misconduct, § 61. What are you going to do with officials who are in doubt? Repeatedly here today, former fellow MEP Polčák, Petr Gazdík, in the past period, I also signed a draft law on the liability of civil servants for damages. The point here is that they can do damage not only through their decisions, but even knowingly reduce citizens to their rights. I was once very skeptical of the establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute, but as a longtime member of the petition committee today I know how really "quality" state administration at different levels, starting with and ending with municipalities in some cases, is. In some cases, especially as regards building law, property rights, environmental protection, citizens are denied completely incomprehensible fundamental rights, officials do not want to decide, they are lazy to decide in a number of cases, they overshoot unpleasant decisions from one to another, no one wants to have a problem. So, please, how are you going to deal with this? I don't consider this point 4.5 blackmail either. 4.6. The recruitment mechanism for officials shall be carried out in two stages: first the recruitment of a civil servant shall take place and then during the specified period an official examination shall be held. It is unclear why these two procedures cannot be merged into one recruitment procedure consisting of a written and oral examination in order to properly assess the applicant's analytical and logical capabilities. The fact that a written test is not mandatory, Article 27, could in certain circumstances constitute an infringement of the principle of equal treatment. Since no detailed information is known for any part of the administrative examination, the evaluation cannot be completed and concluded. [[the speaker thanks for the water served]] Article 4.7. The vacancies shall be notified only on the official record of the Office concerned without giving any time limit for the submission of applications. In order to comply with the principle of transparency, the law should provide that a publicly available resource on vacancies and specifying the deadline for submission of applications should be set together with specific selection criteria. [[12.50 hours]] You know how it is used, abused by public notice boards or public announcement sites, for example, for the purpose of posting plans for public consultation of buildings. In some cases, responsible people, who are concerned with Prague having a road circuit, to finally build the D8, B3 motorway and so on, have even turned to the police in some cases to investigate whether anyone deliberately tampered with public records. [[D3?]] Again, it should be clearly and cleverly modified, and I do not think that only on the public boards should all these offers hang, and the law should lay down clearly, cleaner and less questionable than, for example, today in the construction law, where it is all clear, but then it is unclear to me why it is not respected. 4.8. As regards existing employees, see Article 188, they would be transferred to the civil service regime if they so requested and met the basic criteria, i.e. three years of service. They won't have to undergo any further testing of their qualifications. At least an assessment of their performance should be taken into account in this process. 4.9. Certain minimum conditions should be laid down for staff recruited for a fixed-term contract. 5. Systemization. - I'm getting close to the end. 5.1. As with remuneration and other areas, the evaluation cannot be carried out, given that the detailed arrangements will only be laid down in subsequent implementing regulations. We expect the relevant implementing regulation to establish the model structure of the administrative body - the Ministry, the Agency - including the maximum number of political representatives and their collaborators who are excluded from the scope of the law, etc., which should be based on a sound audit/analysis of the public administration. Nor do I consider this last point that I have read here from the comments from Brussels to be blackmail. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to abuse priority rights. However, the speech of Minister Dienstbier, who has not changed since second reading, and the use of words such as senseless, blackmail and the like, led me to pull out and repeat them from the documents I have on the bench. I assume that, with the exception of Mr Dienstbier, you are all prepared to encourage us to sit at the negotiating table and try to discuss some compromise solutions on those points that I read here at the beginning and at least narrow down the range of points where there is no consensus. Instead of factual criticism, because Minister Dienstbier here said that he received an email from Brussels at 10:30 or 11:30 - so why didn't we get him on the table like all the MPs, whether in the original or in the translation, with an explanation, with an analysis, with references to the relevant points where we are wrong, or Brusel is wrong that it is already being incorporated, or that the processors in question didn't have any other material that the situation had moved in the meantime? Instead of insults, coercion, demagogy. Let me say here, given that the law in which you are trying to push it through can pose a fundamental threat to the independence of certain institutions that have been established here since 1990 in the democratisation process, fundamental problems with the future quality of government, a fundamental threat to the democratic election of citizens, say that we will endure and do everything we can to enforce at least some of these requirements. If you choose for reasons of your other priorities, and I am sorry at this point not for politicians, we are paid from this, but for the staff of Parliament and others who have to endure our negotiations here, for reasons of their other priorities, to interrupt the House's negotiations without sitting immediately at the negotiating table and discussing our demands and requests and wishes, we are also prepared to seek signatures and request an extraordinary meeting on this issue. To everyone who thinks this is nothing, and who remembers the conditions before 1989, I would just remind you that perhaps you remember how hopeless the situation was, how enviously we looked through the Iron Curtain, how we hunted furiously in the ether with the drunken shredders of stones and other noises of any word that meant a different opinion than what was then written in the dimensional law of Red and subordinate slices. Again, Prime Minister, gentlemen of processors, I call on you to sit down with all the parliamentary parties at the negotiating table at the latest next week and try to deal with the stalemate. We are prepared for a long-term discussion of this law. Thank you for your attention. And I apologise for reading the European Union's demands. If it hadn't been for Minister Dienstbier's performance, I wouldn't have read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u13	I thank Mr František Laudát. Before Mr. Roman Sklenák comes forward, I'll quote apologies. He apologizes from 13:00 Ladislav Šincl, from 12:30 he apologized on time, before 12:30 p.m., Minister Milan Chovanec. Mr Pavel Blažek also apologized for his work and Mr Daniel Korte for his personal reasons. I'm going to ask my colleague Marek Černoch to come forward in the electronic system, because I may have already reported him among those without prior rights, but unfortunately - not with fact, my colleague, but in the electronic system, because then we wouldn't have a chance if we hadn't gotten some results today, so we'd have it on record properly. Because two colleagues have outrun him, and I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mr Roman Sklenák with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u14	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will therefore follow up on my colleague František Laudát. His last words were "we are ready for negotiations, long-term negotiations," and I think that at this point, although I do not want to delay, and as we have said here many times, there should be no long discussions at third reading, so I must probably recapitulate what has been going on since the parliamentary motion was tabled. Because here he repeatedly, and even in his second reading, constantly points to some unwillingness of the government coalition to deal with the opposition and to incorporate some of their observations, and that is simply not true. So, for the record, the MP's proposal for social democracy was introduced into the system on 27 December last year. By the way, if he's asking questions here about who wrote this and what kind of proposal it is, it's the same proposal that the Social Democrats have tabled in the last parliamentary term. So it is a proposal that the last House did not have time to discuss, and we, as we met here after the elections, have tabled the law again for this reason - December 27th! [[13.00 hours]] A public seminar on service law took place here in the Chamber of Deputies on 23 January. On 14 February, the opposition was consulted at a meeting of representatives of the MPs, the President and representatives of the Constitutional Committee and representatives of the Public Administration Committee. On 26 February a public meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee took place. On 27 February another public seminar on the Service Law took place in the Chamber of Deputies. On 16 April a seminar and consultations were held within the Public Administration Committee at a joint meeting of the Committee and its counterpart from Slovakia. On 27 May all relevant and up-to-date information was published on the website of the public service www.statnisluzba.cz. On 29 May, a comprehensive amendment was submitted to the Constitutional and Public Administration Committee and was also published on that website. On May 30th, the day after that, he was presented at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. It is therefore not true what is also being said over and over again that the opposition did not receive this comprehensive amendment until the end of June. She got it eight weeks ago. I could go on with what happened on June 12th, June 17th, etc. This discussion of this press is clearly above-standard; access to the opposition is also above-standard, also to the professional public. Even the fact that a special website for this press has been launched does not compare with that in the Chamber of Deputies, and we have not noticed the resistance that the opposition is now showing in these last days, as Mr Laudát has dramatically spoken here. Of course, if someone imagines working with the opposition in a way that gives us an assignment here, even those ideas that don't incarnate in the amendment and says, "Write it down and return it to second reading," then, of course, that's not how we imagine cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u15	[[From the diaper.]] There's no government here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u16	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Madame, please don't yell at me, I have, of course, been discussing this, and at the moment we have agreed on how we will propose a solution. At this point, I'm going to interrupt the meeting for five minutes, I'm going to ask the president of the MPs to come to me, so we can work out how we're going to proceed. The ministers are here, but I've interrupted the meeting for five minutes, which means at 1:08 p.m. we'll continue the negotiations. [[The sitting is suspended at 13.03 hours to 5 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a 13.08 p.m. break, we have the ministers here, we can continue the negotiations. Mr. Ambassador, you may proceed with your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u17	So thank you for your word. Before the break, I was talking about those amendments that the opposition did not submit in the sense that they were mentioned. Of course, the ones put forward are in the negotiations and we are ready to vote for some of them in the third reading. I must also say that a number of opposition proposals have been incorporated into the comprehensive amendment tabled by the coalition here, for example. in relation to the transparency of the public administration. So much for dealing with the opposition. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Another repeated false statement here from this place was that there was no explanatory memorandum drawn up on this complex amendment. That is not true, the explanatory report was, of course, processed, has 24 pages and has been published at the same time as the comprehensive amendment. Of course, it is not part of this House press 71/8, which is a resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, that is, of course, okay, and it is also in line with common practice. I am very sorry, Mr President, but the noise is really very unpleasant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u18	Yes, I'll ask you, colleagues, if you have anything urgent to discuss, please go to the lobby so we can hear each other. Thank you for mutual respect and tolerance. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u19	Thank you, too. So the questions raised here by colleague Stanjura and others, and they are looking for information as to why the paragraph is written just as it is written, so I would refer them to the explanatory report on a comprehensive amendment, where they would undoubtedly find a number of answers. Nevertheless, I would like to say a few things briefly here. In the second reading there was also quite pronounced amazement over the used terminology. In this context, I therefore reiterate that this is not a new law, but an amendment to the law and, of course, it accepts the terminology used in the original law. There were comments on the design of the saleable. I would like to say that the application of the Vendor Institute should be rather exceptional in practice, after the period for which the civil servant was placed outside the service for organisational reasons has expired in vain. Moreover, the level of sales is graduated according to the duration of the service, and by the way, it is one of the last so-called benefits remaining in the bill. In the event of termination of the service for organisational reasons, the civil servant will therefore be placed out of service. The purpose of this institute is to enable civil servants to be used in the near future for a different position in the civil service and not to lose a qualified employee. The coalition amendment tabled at second reading reduces the period to six months and increases the remuneration to 80 per cent of the salary. Let's face it, sometimes today the abolition of a systemized place is just a tool to get rid of uncomfortable officials. Following the adoption of the Service Act, civil servants who do not achieve good work results or break work discipline or professional discipline may be affected in the framework of a service evaluation or in the context of disciplinary proceedings, and thus much easier than is the case today under the Labour Code. Then there were many comments on the Deputys for the management of the section and the so-called political deputy ministers. The Civil Service Act does not restrict politics or policies, it merely creates a clear line between political nominees and civil servants. Of course, the presence of politicians in the position of deputys is legitimate and, at the same time, necessary in terms of policy implementation and task assignment in accordance with the Government's programming declaration. By the way, even the Constitution assumes representation of the Minister by the Deputy Minister, Deputy Minister. The so-called section heads are the highest state employees in the section, they are not political nominees and all these positions will have to undergo a selection procedure within a year, i.e. under legal conditions. Next thing. The number of executives, i.e. the leaders, will not increase, rather shrink. There will be a unified structure everywhere, i.e. the head of section management, department director and department head. Of course, just because the vice-president's word is used in multiple positions does not mean that the number of senior positions will increase. As far as official examinations are concerned, they will be carried out before the Commission at individual ministries and administrative offices. The general part shall be carried out electronically. Other comments were made on the control of service relations carried out by the Director-General. In this case, it is certainly not an interference in the proceedings in kind and in kind decisions of the Minister, it is only a check of the legality of the procedure under the Service Act. Typically, it may be a check of the legality of the decision issued, whether they are provided with all the requirements, whether they are legal in accordance with the administrative rules, whether complaints are handled and the like. It will therefore be a systematic long-term control. Article 17 (2) (a) 5 which provides that the remuneration of civil servants under an approved system may not be used for a purpose other than that provided for. This is not an inconspicuous paragraph, as was said here at second reading, but rather a very important provision negotiated with the ministries and with the social partners, which makes it impossible for the salaries to be used in a different way. This is not the end of savings, but the end of perversion and violation of the right to a fair remuneration of civil servants. So much from me to what was said here today and partly in second reading. As I have already said, I also recommend your attention to the explanatory report on the comprehensive amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have some factual points here. The first, with a factual point, is Mr Stanjura. Mr Stanjura is also logged in electronically. So I'm going to say how you're logged in, in what order, with a factual remark. The first is Mr Stanjura, then Mrs Černochová, then Mr Martin Lank and then Mr Laudát. If there is no further factual point, we will proceed in the debate according to the duly registered ones. So at this moment, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u21	Thank you for the floor. It's really factual. I'll perform with content when it's my turn. I don't know if it's ignorance, misunderstood or good faith of President Sklenák, but what he did here, on the one hand, in the answers, and I'm glad that in the 14 days that I've asked the questions, they've worked them out, and my three words "unknowability, misunderstanding, good faith" exactly correspond to the style of answers. I would almost laugh at deadlines and acquiescence with the opposition. The material has been distributed 3. 7:00 p.m., 1:58 p.m. It's on psp.cz. If you look at the current meeting, today's program, you'll get it. That is the resolution of the CIP. I am not saying that the members of the IDA did not receive any changeling at the time of 30 May, but it is the same argument as if I were to say when we were discussing excise duty today that the proposals to the Committee on Budgets were handed out on 21 June, three days before the discussion of this press in the Committee on Budgets. Yes, members of the CIP got it, you never know how it's gonna turn out, what shape it's gonna be. And we got the shape that came from the I.P.A. on July 3rd. 14 days ago, we asked you for a meeting, there was no meeting tonight. You just keep going to the mic and saying, "We'd like to act." So are we. Well, call it in, Mr. Chairman, you promised last week, you promise this week. We are indeed ready to act. Our aim is not to prevent the adoption of the law, we want to prevent the wrong law and, unfortunately, this is how it is in this shape. Reasonable message. I don't know where he is. It's not on the House's website. You have other priority information, at least according to the press we don't have. You're saying that you have an analysis and that it's going to involve 65,000 people. We'd like to know how you got that number, and we'd like to get that analysis as an opposition, too, so that we can build on the same data that you have at your disposal. Of course, you didn't give us anything like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u22	Thank you. Before we continue our negotiations, I have a note here. Mr Josef Novotný apologizes for the rest of the day and for the next meeting of this week. The next one entered with a factual remark is Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must say that the words of the chairman of the club ČSSD Sklenák in me really give me a smile on my face. After all, what the last week of social democracy is doing here brings out smiles on the faces of colleagues in the coalition, not just with opposition MPs like me. I would like to quote to President Sklenák during his heated debate about how the opposition is blocking something here and how the coalition is actually ready to cooperate and communicate, so I would like to read the passage from the Rules of Procedure, from the House of Deputies resolution, which states that "the Prime Minister or his authorized member of the government will attend the entire meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The relevant members of the Government shall participate in the discussion of the individual items of the programme under their responsibility.' [[13.20 hours]] I want to ask, where is the Minister without a job, Mr. Dienstbier? Where's Minister Chovanec, Home Secretary? Where is Prime Minister Sobotka? [[Very emotional:]] You can't be serious! What you're doing here is mocking the opposition, not calling for us to work together! You are completely ignoring the fact that this Chamber of Deputies is meeting in extraordinary time, and your colleagues, especially the ministers behind the ČSSD - there are ministers from other political parties here, I thank them for this, and I appreciate the fact that they are sitting here - and the Minister for the ČSSD is not the only one here, so call them to come down here kindly and listen to what is going on here before you moralize, through the President, Mr Sklenák!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u24	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Martin Lank. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u25	Thank you for the floor. I wish you a lovely afternoon, dear colleagues. I, despite all the respect I have for most of you, will not abandon the following remark. I've been thinking about this for a long time, and I'm gonna say it out loud. When we recapitulate what was happening here about the law: The law was passed because the government needed it in a hurry and approved it in a hurry. Then it turned out that the law was completely useless and that it needed to be redesigned, so we had a comprehensive amendment, which was basically a brand-new law! And yet, I have looked at it now, there are some 90 amendments, some of which are also tabled by government MPs. I'd just like you to think about it when you're blaming us for presenting under-dues or pampering because we're missing a dot somewhere! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u26	Thank you and another factual point - Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u27	I would just tell the rapporteur that I couldn't find the answers in the material. Mr. Dienstbier here didn't answer them, he attacked us instead. And I'm going to ask a pretty rhetorical question: who else knows the law? In some kind of explanatory report, or whatever it is, I read from some material: To Article III. Given the repeated displacement of the effectiveness of the Service Act, its inconsistent amendment - I read as it was written, he probably meant the legislation to be inconsistent, including the number of references to the footnotes and the number of amendments, the authorisation to declare the full text of the Service Act in order to ensure clarity and clarity of the Law for its addressees is regulated. [[101 amendment points]] I would ask the authors of this law or his amendment: And the Members are not worth giving us here the full text of what should apply? I mean, here, with certainty or probability equal to certainty, we're gonna approve a series of nonsense that can lead the Republic into a series of lawsuits when you want to get rid of someone and they're gonna wave some sentence into a series of arbitrations, and I can't even imagine the consequences of paralyzing institutions. You know what two or three of them meant, even at one point, police presidents. So I didn't get the answers. And the standard material is processed so that somewhere there is a complete text and there are marked changes in order to read it at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u28	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely making a brief remark to the rapporteur. The evidence they're preparing for you isn't correct and true. To pretend that this is an amendment to the law, when part of this so-called. The amendment to the law is the repeal of the old law, it is enough to really look to the side, to tell you exactly, seventy-six, of the repeal clause, which says that the repeal of Act No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other servants in administrative offices, the Service Act. So this law is repealed, which please is not being amended. I have also pointed out to the government legislation, even to you as a plaintiff repeatedly, that, in my view, this is not a possible legislative procedure at all. You're ignoring it. Of course, it's possible to ignore it, but if something is a really brutal label, it's to pretend that the law I wanted to amend, cancel, and accept a completely different one instead. But please don't say here again that we're amending the old law when you're abolishing it yourself in the proposal!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u30	Thank you. I don't see any factual comment, so we'll proceed... Mr Sklenák with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u31	I just made a few quick remarks about what was said here. Of course, if I was talking about the amendment, I was talking about the terminology and structure of the original law being used. As for Mrs Černochová's outrage, I don't know why she felt that I was moralizing here. I summarized the facts, he stated, because if it was said that the complex amendment was received by opposition Members up to 3. 7. which was mentioned here, so I pointed out that they had received it already on May 30. That's just the truth. And that the comprehensive amendment in the press does not contain an explanatory report, that is, of course, correct and logical, because the comprehensive amendment is a resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee and it is not customary for a explanatory report to be included in the committee resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u32	Thank you. We will therefore proceed to the debates duly signed up for, and the first is Mr Ivan Adamec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I confess when I listened to some of the posts here that I thought he would not get to the proper applications at all, however he did, and I am glad and I would like to share some of the information about this so-called third reading with you. Service law. And the goal of my performance is definitely to consider returning it to second reading. I think it's necessary because there were words that were conceptual. So, after today's debate, I don't know if anyone believes that the bill is conceptual. I, from what I've heard, am imagining something completely different under the word conceptual. It was also said that the opposition was being stupid or that it was a stupid opposition. I would like to warn against this opinion and even about this feeling, because everyone will be needed in opposition someday, but the opposition, after all, is free advice. That's old wisdom. And sometimes they say they're good advice for free, so I wouldn't gamble with that, and I certainly wouldn't talk like that. I was lucky enough to be in Slovakia this weekend, I was in Záhorí, Senica, and we happened to be talking about topics that bothered the Czech political scene, and of course there was a service law. And I asked how it was in Slovakia, what happened there and how they were going to deal with it. But I still have to say that I have prepared an overview of the countries - don't worry, I won't delay, I won't read them - where they deal with it in different ways within Europe, and it is definitely not an objective in these countries and it was not the aim of creating some new general office, Directorate-General. This is being dealt with in different ways, and I think that some necessary parliamentary supervision is needed. The classic example is Great Britain. Perhaps you have read how the system works in the UK, where the Minister of State was abolished more or less in 1968. By the way, he was a politician in charge of the administration. His position has been combined with the President of Parliament, and it is more or less that although we certainly know all the British sitcom, the series Sure, Minister, that they too have some problems with it and say de facto when you translate it, that the current Czech proposal goes against what they feel as a need that officials have begun to behave very specifically, that they have a sense of irreplaceability and that they simply do not have to follow the orders of ministers, because nothing will happen to them for it. [[13.30 hours]] David Cameron, I think, started a public administration reform in 2001. I think that even though they have parliamentary supervision there, they are thinking that it is necessary to alleviate, I would say, the so-called depoliticalisation of the service law. However, I will return to Slovakia. Úrad pre štátnu služby was introduced in Slovakia with the Civil Service Act. This measure was justified by the need for an independent authority to appoint officials on the basis of qualification requirements. Government of Mikuláš However, Dzurindy later annulled this office, stating that the Authority could not effectively select officials, taking into account local specifics. We have officially learned from our partners from Slovakia that in practice there were problems when officials were selected in all regions in Bratislava. However, the general qualification requirements did not take into account local specifics and the newly selected officials were not always positively accepted into the local collectives. This paralyzed some authorities and instead of working, they fought for influence over the leadership of the office. That's interesting information, but it's a little different in Slovakia than in our country. We have another specific against the Slovák. The Slovák have consistently separated the government from the authorities. We have never done that, we have a mixed model today, and we have officials who perform government and will not fall under the regime of this system. So they have it very simple. Even, to tell you the truth, some circles are thinking again about setting up this general office. However, when I asked people who are specifically involved in politics... I don't speak Slovak, I was told in Czech that the office was for two things: for nothing and I am politely raised, I will not continue. Here too, it must be perceived that we are creating a certain caste of officials, civil servants, and that other officials who perform this service for the State are excluded from this law. I don't think it's good either, because it's certainly not gonna make for a good mood in society in some way. I have to say, there's one more thing that's stopped me. I say this every time I get to the microphone, and I have to say it today: I beg you, I beg the ministers not to rely on the statement of the State's reconstruction. As has already been said here, it is one of the many lobbyist organizations that pursue their interests without investing anything themselves in these interests, turning to us, to Members, and in various ways demanding that we behave in some way according to their interests. I don't think it belongs here, and I certainly wish we had always taken the same position with lobbyists, at least not publicly speaking about them here. I have to say, if anyone thinks that after the martyrias that's happened here, this bill is conceptual, that it's really well prepared - and you know what's irritating me the most at the end? That the minister who has this law in his mind isn't here at all. He hasn't said a word to him yet. If you're asking who the minister is, it's Minister Chovanec. Ladies and gentlemen, I think - let's go back to second reading, let's act. Because the purpose is not to apply the original Civil Service Act. The purpose is to create a good new law on civil service in order to meet our conditions while at the same time fulfilling the conditions of the European Commission. Thank you for your attention and I apologize for being a little longer this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u34	Thank you. I have one factual comment from Mr Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u35	Mr President, if you could just give Mr Adamc a little comment. When he declared here how good they are in Slovakia, that they have a divided government and government, I would remind you that in the time of the opposition agreement, it was the request of the ODS ruling in a quiet coalition with social democracy, which, in the time of the opposition agreement, used the combined model in the government of Miloš Zeman and then Deputy Strecková, who had it under the Ministry of the Interior. So the person responsible is the ODS, or her cooperation with social democracy at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u36	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Ivan Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to inform my colleague Zlatušek by your means that I did not say it was wrong. I said it was just a different model. Of course, if I wanted to evaluate a decision that had been made years ago, as you say, by ODS and social democracy and by a large coalition, or by an opposition treaty, to be more precise, I still consider that decision to be very good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u38	Thank you. Minister Dienstbier applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u39	It is rather a factual point, because there have been repeated words about competences, that the Minister of the Interior should be here to defend this bill. This is not entirely accurate because, of course, the Minister of the Interior has a sense for the whole area of public administration, but in the case of public service it is a little different. For one thing, the Directorate-General is already established according to the effective part of the Staff Act in force, and this Directorate-General does not really exist yet, because it was scattered under Nečasův' government, or the rest of what was left of it, and at this time, according to the Government's decision, I am responsible for preparing it. The Civil Service Department, a kind of embryo from which the Directorate-General should be formed, is a department in the legislative section at the Office of the Government, which falls under me. So much for explaining some of the sayings that fall here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u40	Thank you. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond quickly to what Minister Dientsbier has said here. Perhaps it is a pity that Minister Chovanec is not in charge of this, perhaps we could see at least some action and yet a little more sensible attitude on this matter. Minister Dientsbier, I listened to what you said in your opening act, and I'm really not surprised. You're accusing the opposition of threatening that we're stupid and I don't know what everything is. Sometimes I feel like we speak different languages. That the government might only understand if we spoke Chinese or Russian, and you probably wouldn't understand it at all. Once again, we don't build here because we don't want any service law. All we ask for is what we want to talk about this service bill. And don't be mad at me, I didn't see any action. Last week, I had a completely different deal with Prime Minister Sobotka. Prime Minister Sobotka told me: next week, when we start discussing this, President Sklenák will convene a meeting at the level of club presidents. It's been a week, we're discussing it, there's no meeting at club president level, or at least I don't know anything about it. So you're not dealing with us, you're not listening to what we're saying, you're just constantly accusing us of obstruction and extortion. There's been no obstructions so far. The third week of this meeting, thanks to the attitude of the government coalition and your clumsyness in negotiating other laws, we have only just come to discuss the service law. Well, now, and I agree, if we don't act, we're going to have enough time to discuss very thoroughly both this law and all the historical matters related to it. [[13.40 hours]] However, I would like to say once again in a friendly and friendly manner that we have been taking a very constructive position since the beginning of this meeting on this subject, several times we have presented some of our proposals for the necessary amendments to the Service Act, we have stressed and I stress again that we do not want to block negotiations, but we want to approve a good law for citizens. We are prepared to participate in this despite the fact that we are discussing this law in a non-standard way, and yet we are offering cooperation and we are still saying: come negotiate with us. And the answer is silence or some sort of autistic attitude where I don't understand what you're talking about. There has not been a negotiation, no one is discussing our demands with us, no one is discussing, the answer to our requests is just silence and repetition of our own truths. But that's just not how we get to the good Civil Service Act. The difference between us as right-wing opposition and left-wing government is that we want a good law, even at the price of the compromise we are prepared for, but the government wants to win at all costs. It's either our bad proposal or nothing! And that's a dangerous attitude. Dangerous to the Czech Republic because it will bring us bad service law. And it's not a trivial thing! The law will affect, as the Prime Minister also admitted, 65,000 civil servants, but will have an impact on all citizens of the Czech Republic as a result. I will repeat once again: The Civil Democratic Party is ready to support the service law if four essential requirements are accepted, agreed with the TOP 09 - I would not even call it a requirement, but an improvement in the service law - which is a necessary condition for the service law to function well. That one condition is the abolition of the Institute of Directorate-General. We're not interrupting the concept of state secretaries. On the contrary! The Supreme Officer at each office will be the Secretary of State, who would be appointed and dismissed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister, but we simply would not have another unnecessary office. The second condition is the openness of the public service at all levels for self-government officials, representatives of the academic sphere, private sphere. We consider this extremely important. And, of course, these people wouldn't just come back, but they would have to pass the administrative exam under certain conditions, they would have to have the right practice, but simply closing the state administration to these experts is absolutely wrong. Our third requirement is to maintain the Deputys as a management officer of the Service Office. We can't even imagine the concept of two Deputys. So we want the Deputy Director's position to be cancelled and one type of deputy is left. And then it's a proposal, fourthly, to ensure human continuity and stability, that protection will apply to civil servants who have worked in public administration for more than four years. I think that from our proposals, if you really listen to them without prejudice, it must be clear to you that our sole objective is for the Civil Service Act to be of good quality and for the civil service to be able to provide quality service to our citizens. The government's response, as I have already said, is neither on our terms nor on a flat-rate refusal, but it certainly is not that we sit behind the negotiating table and discuss arguments for one proposal after another and really say what is acceptable to the government, what is not acceptable. Prime Minister Sobotka here claims that unless his version of the Service Act is approved, the 2002 original proposal will become effective. Zemanův's law, and when Prime Minister Sobotka says so, I must say he's right. And if the Prime Minister is threatening anyone, it's really no big threat to us. This version, i.e. the original law, meets three of our four conditions, and from this point of view, it is to some extent a better result for us than what we now have on the table. But, of course, I agree that this is a state-of-the-art law, that it is a law that was obsolete at the time of its creation, and that we should agree on a better one. But if we don't agree on a better one, then the original version has an impact on citizens and the state is identical, or even milder than what you've put forward here. I also don't know if the government, when they talk about how much the original version would cost, comes from good numbers. Those are some data and numbers that are 12 years old. We don't have a new impact analysis or a new version of the Service Act or the original one, so I don't know what the government's talking about. Until there's some serious analysis, we won't even know. I would also like to repeat some arguments here for those who might not have heard it right away or could not have understood why we are fighting for a better service law and why we do not like the current proposal. Firstly, the current proposal will create confusion in the system and paralyze the vast majority of the state authorities for a time. Secondly, it will bring more bureaucracy, it will bring more administration, it will bring more authority to officials, which is not what we all want. And thirdly, of course, it will bring benefits to the government's current nominees and collaborators, but it will bring nothing, really nothing, to high-quality officials who work for our state in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a law that will simplify and speed up the operation of the authorities and reduce bureaucracy, but, on the contrary, a new super-office will be added, new commissions will be selected and evaluated by officials and selected and evaluated according to completely unclear criteria, new quasi-positions, new functions, newly named functions will be added. It's not a law that offers a career perspective to civil servants. He doesn't define their careers! There is no new definition of career path. There is no offer of attractive education for civil servants, there is no change in salary, so what will this law offer high-quality civil servants at the middle stage of the proceedings? It is not even a quality law or a law that would improve the state administration, which will ensure a better perspective for employees. It's basically just a law for the law so someone can check out a comma. It is not even a law that protects us from corruption, because it creates a new potentially corrupt environment by introducing an irrevocable system of supporting officials who can control the civil service for practically life. It is not even a law that will bring depoliticisation of the state administration, because the current government will only concrete its representatives there, which it has been able to replace at the ministries in the meantime. And it is not even a law that brings high-quality officials, because the administrative exams will be passed in front of other officials, at the new office at the Office of the Government, only officials will evaluate them again, instead of being composed on the neutral ground of universities, which, of course, would mean a much better education for our officials. So this proposal that we have here on the table, although it looks like it has a lot of good intentions, so when I look at its design, there's one thing that's clear. Its main goal is to concrete hundreds of people close to social democracy and the ANO movement. There will be a strong union of irrevocable, mutually selected and supportive officials, but not of quality, but of the nominees of the current government. Maybe some of you in the wrong section, maybe some of you haven't even read the law, and if you've read it, maybe you can't imagine what the suggestions there will mean. Well, I'll tell you on a sporting example. [[13.50 hours]] Let's imagine the first-ever football team. You all know that. With this team, the coach would once appoint a captain for seven years: you'll be captain for seven years. He would have chosen the player himself, the captain, for seven years. If someone got hurt, someone on the bench would replace him, where the players would also be put in the captain's seat, but for life. No one would be allowed to transfer from nowhere, the team would always play with the same players regardless of their form. Coach should say something about tactics sometimes, but since the captain decides about the players, no one would listen to him much anyway. Do you think such a team would play well? Do you think anyone would watch that? You don't think a team like that would come down right away? If you understand football a little, it must be clear to you that something like this could never work. And we're proposing it here for the state administration. For seven years of concrete, officials decide on officials, another seven years, is chosen only from the chosen. Ladies and gentlemen, this system can't work, and anyone who thinks about it with common sense, you must know that. It is not a law that will improve the administration's functioning, but it will block it. And I don't remind you of any of the things that are completely absurd to anyone who's ever met the Ministry's operation. This is to say that the law defines two types of deputies who have different defined competences or rather do not have them defined. One of them runs the section, the other one doesn't drive anything. This will only lead to the paralysis of ministries and it will not work well. If anyone thinks that the new super office, whether it's 40, 60, 80 or three employees, will somehow improve the functioning of the state administration, they're very wrong. What is this office going to do? He's gonna run civil servants, decide on their jobs, coordinate administrative exams and other things. But that's what personnel services can do at individual ministries. That's why we don't have to set up a new super office. This is not a law that serves the Czech Republic and its citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, this time in conclusion, let me say that the opposition, the Civil Democratic Party really doesn't want to obsess and we're not talking about the service law here because it's holiday time and we want someone to notice us on vacation. On the contrary, I fear that it is Sobotkův's government, who is trying to use some of the public's holiday inattention towards politics, to enforce a law here that will change the main authorities for many years and change the exercise of state power. The password that Sobotkův's government is going with is simple, and I'm not surprised that it's governed by a government controlled by the left. When I look at the law, the password under which everything is created is: All power to our bureaucrats. But ladies and gentlemen, the officials are not here to be here. Officials are here for us, for citizens, to provide good service to citizens, and if we adopt this law, we will close bureaucracy into a protected area, thereby alienating citizens even more. I, for the Civil Democratic Party, say that we will not, therefore, secede on this, we will not help the government in this. It's irresponsible, and it's up to all of us not to let that happen. But I'm not ending my performance with any threats, no threats, no stupid remarks. I'm ending my show with what I started. A new offer to negotiate. And I really call on the government coalition to start dealing with us. Ladies and gentlemen, let's find a good compromise, let's prepare a good service law. It's the responsibility of all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u42	Thank you. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a law designed to push the functioning of public administration and public administration a long way from what has been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Czech Republic in the past. I am thinking, in particular, of the experience I have personally, and that is the design of a system of functioning public administration and reform of public administration, if you like, at regional level. I would like to point out precisely in this case that there are a number of similarities to the service law that we are discussing today. For example, in the case of the provisions of the regions and regional arrangements in the Czech Republic, which we were also given in the Czech Constitution since 1992 or 1993, and the arguments at that time in the Chamber of Deputies were "to be fulfilled" and I heard it today from the mouth of a number of my previous speakers that they said we must move on because we have it in the Constitution, and we should look for some optimal solution to this bill. Just as today, it was also true that we are building a system that is supposed to work not one but more parliamentary periods. Which must also take note of the fact that coalitions and coalition arrangements will change in individual regions and so on and must work with the public administration downstairs, in towns and villages, must respect the fact that some articles of public administration will be disrupted or others will be created. This, too, has an ongoing reform of the public administration in the past very similar to what we are trying to do here now, which means fulfilling the so-called. Service law, fulfill the constitutionality of the Czech Republic and also fulfil the conditions of the European Union so that we have a law here that will not be necessary to change again in the next or next parliamentary term, because it will prove to be inoperable, that it simply slows down the functioning of the Czech Republic as a whole. In the past, the normal rule was not the fact that the Home Secretary would apologize twice from the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations on such a serious matter as the Service Act, and it certainly did not apply that he did not say a word. Nor did it apply that there were non-standard forms of discussion in the Chamber of Deputies precisely for the seriousness of the matter. And I must remind the opposition that it was then Prime Minister Miloš Zeman, who insisted that this be a law that will be more electoral periods, that simply the opposition must agree with the coalition and find some solution that may have some errors but will have a longer duration. It was quite standard that the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the environment, which was then merged, was one committee, yet this committee found sufficient time to agree on the various sections of the coalition and opposition, and if you look at the vote, the final vote on public administration reform was passed by a significant majority of such laws. There's no reason for anything similar to this law to happen. Political culture has changed significantly compared to the past, and it is a great pity. I already said that at second reading that I could disagree with Miloš Zeman, the Prime Minister at the time, but it was political culture. We have agreed on something that works, and I do not see any fundamental contradictions today at the level of political discussions as to whether the public administration is to function one way or another. [[14.00 hours]] I can imagine it better, I said that even then in the Chamber of Deputies that I would rather than the regional authorities correct the functioning of the district offices, instead of regional councils, it would be enough for the then district assembly to basically embrace as a territorial electoral unit and to stand up to self-government in the district offices, to fill us with what we had in the Constitution, not cost us so much money, and we would not have such an imbalance in the functioning of state administration and public administration in the Czech Republic, such as taking the size of individual regions and so on. However, on this point I want to demonstrate the fact that we have simply been able to find compromises in the interests of the stability and ability of the Czech Republic - to fulfil, on the one hand, the obligations arising from the Constitution and the obligations arising from the legislation of the European Union. It's really touching when you're listening to Dienstbier, or if you don't want a ministry, he says, "Please give me some work, we've already agreed that in the future these things will be under me." And the Home Secretary, who's in charge of these things - the law of competence clearly states who's in charge - will apologize for the second time, chew and leave. I would very much like this to be said again here, the fact that the people in charge are not involved in this whole thing. I'd like to say one of my own experiences about what we're actually preparing here. I have been through the functions of municipal policy and regional policy. I even sat in one bench with the absent environmental minister Richard Brabc here at the moment, when we were defending the emergence of a new industrial zone under the ODS, and we needed all civil servants to use their working time and working time to ensure that such an industrial zone could arise before this industrial zone arose. So that they don't use those 30-day periods to express themselves, or to appeal to 60 days etc., simply to refrain from doing things that must pass in full compliance with the law. Thanks to this, a large industrial zone employing thousands of people today is important in Kladensko. And it wasn't about breaking bread or breaking the hands of state officials. There was simply a chance and an effort of self-government and a chance to react quickly in the competition of incoming investors in Europe and the Czech Republic, so that we could respond and offer to those who brought jobs and wanted to invest in the Czech Republic the chance that they could soon build a factory, that they could soon employ people. We did not need another strong law to separate the functioning, I will say, legally, legitimately elected representatives, whether Parliament or the self-government of cities and municipalities or the region from civil servants. Because that is what we are trying to prevent from discussing this law at the moment. At the level of the county, my experience was similar. I was aware that the essential condition for attracting foreign investors and the essential condition for the competitiveness of the Czech Republic was that we were able to guarantee not only the legal process of building such a factory or the investment itself, but also sufficient speed and flexibility, the ability to respond to the conditions of the investor coming. And I know how we have been a thorn in the eye in the European Union in a number of countries, and you may have some experience with that in the vast majority, that when an investor comes, he says, "I will go to the Czech Republic or Hungary or Poland or Slovakia," and one of the things that decides is, of course, the term of being able to enforce such a construction. A term of competence for the functioning of the public administration as a whole. Mr. Secretary without a job, Dienstbier here says he wants to, or that we need to ensure the independence of an official. Independence on who? Or what? Independence on - I'll say - the organs chosen? Independence on your minister? Do you really think that if there is a minister in the Ministry without the ability to motivate people to work flexibly, quickly and often beyond time, because that is what the Czech Republic needs, that the Czech Republic will move somewhere if we separate this? The minister is here to run the ministry well and motivate the state authority to also implement the electoral program with which he went to the elections and that people were promised something. Someone wins the election, the government gets together, and this government should implement its electoral agenda. The electoral programme should be promoted through its ministers. And you reject the bill well enough to be deputys because you say "that's too much politics, that's enough for the minister, no more politics in there, please don't let those officials know what the country needs." But you can feel the contradiction in the fact that the clerk didn't go through the election martyria, he didn't promise those people, and he didn't ask them on the streets what they wanted to happen. And he wants peace of mind, I say, a clerk, from the one who motivates him to do something. And that's not the independence we want! When the law of public administration reform was discussed, the regional law dealt with similar dilemmas. Deputy Minister Strecková, who was mentioned here by a fellow Member, came up with the idea that we must have a State Secretary at regional level, that the Secretary of State will be part of the Regional Council, will have his office to ensure the independence of the functioning of the civil servant within the regional institution, and that, in this way and only possible, and that is what the European Union wants, because we still have to ensure the independence of the functioning of the state administration within the regions. Finally, after the debate, without having to take the non-standard steps that are unfortunately taking place here in this Chamber of Deputies, we solved the problem so that there was no office within the district office, the State Secretary's office, or a civil servant who would personally manage the operation of the office. Because it would just not work, and everyone knows it, everyone feels it, and it would also be much more expensive. The situation has been resolved by the fact that today the director of the regional office is not only appointed by the Council, he is not under, I say, political pressure absolutely, the competence of the Minister of the Interior is incorporated in this, and we have fulfilled the conditions that the European Union wanted us to do. The same way we can use in the construction of the Service Act in a debate that the opposition is trying to do in vain at this moment, which is promised to us from here, but nothing is really happening. And we, with reference to the past - you don't have to believe or you wouldn't believe that we mean it, that we want to talk about the law if you didn't have at least - I'm turning to social democracy now - the same experience from the past that we were able to build a law together that didn't bring significantly greater costs to run the administration, met the conditions of the European Union and fulfilled the Constitution. I have one more important point. If the Director-General of all civil servants and his Directorate-General, which at first will look inconspicuous - "it is only a few people," we have heard here that it is actually nothing, and will only deal with such unimportant things as the personalistics of individual ministries and ministers, aside from the fact that they have put the interests of employees in the wine of unions that discuss the terms and conditions of tripartite negotiations with the government on a regular basis, I will say, the functioning of employees and the conditions of employees in general, not only in the state administration, so now they will probably only discuss it for the future with the Director-General of all civil servants. They will then submit proposals to ministers who will have no competence to do anything about it. We're going to get into a vicious circle that's basically not going to break up. [[14.10 hours]] I don't know if the unions have agreed to something like this, they may imagine it's going to be a lot easier, but we're going to make the situation more complicated in general. Because there will be another partner that needs to be taken seriously, and which, believe me, the coalition can now think that no one can believe that when they are appointed, they will be loyal to the government coalition. Maybe a few individuals who directly influence whether it's Špidla or not, or if it's someone like him, maybe it'll work for a while based on friendships, but it won't be an independent function, it won't be an independent civil servant. He will be very sure for seven years, and under him, he will be almost certain that one of them, the Deputy Director General of the Supreme Civil Officer, will then also become the Director General of all civil servants for seven years. You have to feel that this can't work, virtually. that this cannot be something we need for the Czech Republic, and that this cannot even be a condition of the European Union, although I believe that any bureaucrat in the European Union would want the Czech Republic to lose any of its dynamics, any of its competitiveness, to be handicapped by arguing with legally and legitimately elected political representations, you will all have to go to the Director-General of all civil servants, then ask any deputy - here in Prague, I note. Because it was also the right note that the system of state administration is actually spread out across the whole territory of the Czech Republic. But where will decide who will actually be what employee, whether he will be punished or not, because that was not mentioned here either. But let me remind you, for example. for the first Republic, and it was a very decent and solidly developed bureaucratic system to punish a civil servant when he committed something. Because it's gonna have to be done by the Directorate-General. And the Directorate-General will need some lawyers and some other companies to assess whether the employee in question in Dolní Lhota has really committed something illegal and whether he will be punished one way or another. Whether he's gonna bring him in for trial or whether he's gonna put him in court or not. This, of course, will not make the performance of the state administration and the functioning of the Czech Republic as a whole more flexible. I would very much like you to look into the law that worked in 1937 and look at all its parts, because it also applied there, and it is necessary to tell our public administration that the approval of this bill will divide civil servants into civil servants sitting on the municipalities and on the borders and officials who will be better off not only financially but existentially, while talking to them about what they should or should not do. That it is not true that we are talking about equal conditions for all civil servants, it is also necessary to say strongly here. It is not that all civil servants have their state tenure and that they will all be taken care of and that they will all receive severance payments or the golden parachutes proposed by the Minister without a job. We just need the civil servants to know there's gonna be other castes. There will be those who are sure for seven years that everyone will start to ask what they think about it, and if they don't throw out that civil servant over there because I'm sick of it, or if they don't throw out this one, or vice versa, this is gonna be a nice guy because we went to school together, that's what we need to leave there, and it's got to be done best in Prague, or I don't know where we're gonna put it, it's basically one thing, it's just always gonna run from somewhere. This is what it takes for the mayors to know that their officials will be in a different category than the officials here in Prague, the ministers. By the way, when discussing this bill in the Public Administration Committee, representatives of state institutions came to lobby, whether the law could eventually be different etc. I don't blame them because he wasn't talking to them. Such an important bill did not go through a proper reminder procedure. This was in the past, because the government submitted the proposal for a reform of the public administration, even though we then made a comprehensive changeling, in agreement with the government, but the basis went through a commentary procedure. They have developed the subtleties of the functioning of the public administration so that the matter can work. We have forgotten this, and so logically a number of state institutions, which we have hundreds, maybe thousands that no one has ever really heard of, about a few employees etc., suddenly opened their eyes and say: we either want to be part of that service law, we want to have the advantages of having a couple of chosen, and try to see if the MPs would do anything about it, etc. This draft service law also leads to such divisions, because it simply bypassed a system to which individual ministers could comment or, if you like, ministries. Although from the way I see it here, the Home Secretary, I've already said he's sorry because he doesn't care. For the second time. I'm making a comment -- twice. That's no longer a coincidence. That's more of a relationship statement: "Then discuss it, we'll agree anyway. I don't really care if the public administration works one way or another. I won't be here after that." But there will be those citizens who will have to get along with the state administration somehow. And there will be another power center on behalf of the Directorate-General. Or we decide whether or not the Directorate-General of all civil servants will be here. I very much ask that from these words and promises that they want to deal seriously with the opposition to specific individual paragraphs, action should take place. Whether the Prime Minister or Chairman of the Social Democracy and the Yes movement and others and say yes, let's make a team of experts about a few people. Because they just apply Parkinsonův's laws. It is true that at the moment when more than seven people meet, so that one should be heard and perceived, they must stand up, and to stand up, they must say a speech, and the speech can no longer be just: good day, friends and goodbye, but it must be somehow long and structured, and we simply will not achieve anything. [[14.20 hours]] If we want and if we are serious about this, I think that we are like opposition and citizens' democrats, and I believe that others, too, are prepared to discuss individual proposals without supermedia attention, but really in detail. We have said our amendments here. The minimum we have defined here is really the minimum, because one could come up with dozens of amendments, but we want to convince you that these four changelings, or these four things that we have talked about, are absolutely essential to us, but there are a number of things that I believe would not be against the fur of a number of Members working in the Chamber of Deputies who have experience in the functioning of public or state administration, and we would eventually find consensus that would not force the future Chamber of Deputies to change a dysfunctional law that will stop the Czech Republic for a real number of years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u44	Thank you. I have here with priority the right to join Mr Chvojka's discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm lucky, or maybe someone would say bad luck that I'm the rapporteur of this Civil Service Act. Some colleagues laugh at me, some feel sorry for me, but it is a big task, and the task is that I have to sit here most of the time, unless, for example, I go to the bathroom or to coffee, and listen to speeches. But I'm saying it's part of it. I have listened with interest to the speech by my colleague Bendl, whom I respect not as much as politics, but as a folklore. I remember his text, "I don't want to sleep, I feel like pressing a wire." However, I'm a little offended by one thing, and that's that you're saying about Minister Dienstbier, it's been living here for the last two weeks, the Minister without a job. I think he's got a job. After all, there's been a lot of work done in the service bill. I was thinking through Mr President, when my colleague Bendl talks about someone like that, he must be a good stachanist, and I looked at his House website and found out he had some 50 percent attendance. So I would ask that we not insult colleagues by being unemployed ministers, because I could also say that there is a Member who has a job, for example, but does not do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u46	Thank you. I have an actual comment here. Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u47	Thank you for the floor. I can't not react. I am so glad that even coalition MPs are learning the lyrics of my songs. I hope it's not the only one you remember if you didn't read it a while ago on the Internet to show that you had nothing to say. It's not fair to judge a job based on whether someone's arrived or not, and you know it. It is about what you will do in committee, whether you are able to make a proposal or not, and also sometimes that it is not always possible to vote in favour of the bills that you are proposing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u48	Thank you. Another with a factual remark, Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u49	I'd like to respond. Of course I know more lyrics, not just this one, almost the best, but then "hours do tick so, tick so." That's how it is. However, you said something that Mr. Dienstbier actually does. He is a minister, and he has passed a service law through the House. It's some kind of proposal that, of course, you might not like, and I understand it as a representative of the coalition, but that's what you're talking about. I just reacted to the fact that I don't think it's polite about the minister of this government, and I admit that I may be biased because I am a member of this coalition that forms the government to say that the minister is out of work. I think he has a job that we're discussing right now because that's a proposal, and we all know that, the Human Rights Department, and that's why I don't think it's polite to react that way that someone isn't working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u50	Thank you. I have three Members registered here with a factual remark. The first is Mr Stanjura, then Mr Petr Bendl, followed by Mr Milan Adamec. First Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u51	They always admit that it is a government proposal, not a parliamentary one, as government MPs allow themselves to be torn down by discussions. It's a parliamentary proposal, so don't say it's the Minister's work. Or the other way around. I don't know, but it doesn't really matter, and I don't want to criticize anyone. But I want to say responsibly that for some people, and for the last two weeks, Minister Dienstbier has convinced me of this, it is better that they do nothing. Indeed, it is better, and the outcome is much more sensible than when it tries to engage in public administration. I think we are right to criticise the long-term absence and the absolute disinterest of the Home Secretary on this issue. It doesn't matter that some department of the future Directorate General is being formed at the Office of the Government. Clearly, the entire public administration belongs to the Home Secretary. And look at first, second and third readings, as this key man of social democracy today perceives this issue. He doesn't care!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u52	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Schwarzenberg, one factual point from Mr Bendl. You're letting go, okay. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u53	Mr President, honourable Members, it is rather sad to listen to this debate, because I feel that many do not realise that this is one of the most important laws that the Chamber of Deputies will be dealing with this year. It is very important that its alleged purpose stabilises the circumstances of our officials. Unfortunately, it's going to miss completely. Why does it miss? Because it's a law that one party or one coalition wants to enforce what stands according to the only model that recognizes right. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, is the art of compromise. And if we want to stabilise the state of our bureaucracy, it will be necessary to make a law that will persist in this legislative period, and not that everyone who is in opposition today will be assigned the first task as soon as this government leaves, on the next occasion to repeal this law again, because it has been enforced unilaterally. I don't want to repeat arguments that have been used several times. But it is quite clear that if only one opinion is made, because the plaintiffs are often politicians convinced of their holy truth or vanity, or for party reasons, it is not so important, it is important that we have a law here that is one-sided, and which therefore will not survive this legislative period. Ladies and gentlemen, consider whether this is the purpose of this law. I am very much asking you to sit down at the negotiating table and create a compromise. That's the most important thing at this point. Please. There is one thing I, as former Foreign Minister, would like to point out in this law. There is such an inconspicuous paragraph that says that former ministers and MPs can take office without a test. It is an extraordinary outrage of the political class, and it is a disparagement of the work of diplomats, officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I know that Czech pubs and cafes are full of people who can't tell you how to make shoes or how to turn the shaft and what chemical compound is hidden in this, but they will certainly advise me on how to deal with the Ukrainian crisis, have a strong opinion on how to solve the Middle East conflict and all the world's problems in that café or pub are perfectly easy to solve. This attitude may be in a pub or cafe, and I have often listened to these conversations amusedly. [[14.30 hours]] However, if we think that anyone who has once been a minister and an MP can be able to represent the Czech Republic without taking the appropriate exams, it is not only an impertinence, but, above all, it is the humiliation of our diplomats, the humiliation of all the foreign ministry employees who have been working on various offices for many years, trying to do their job and then, if they could reach the summit, they will be seated overnight by some former MP or other politician who will be ambassador there. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine a college law where there is a paragraph in which it says that a professor without habilitation can become anyone who was previously an MP or a minister. You would certainly reject such a law. But what is our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our foreign policy so unimportant that we can afford this impertinence? Ladies and gentlemen, please think about it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u54	Thank you. Before we continue our discussion, I have a note here. She apologises from 14.01. to 15.00 for working reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová. I have three factual points here. The first is Mr Bendl, followed by Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek and then Mr Jandák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u55	I wanted to stress in my speech that it is simply crucial that the Minister of the Interior participates in this debate. It's legal. I would expect legislative support from the Minister for Legislation, but not that he will be here - and I note this, it is not the government bill that you have spoken about, Mr colleague, through the President, but the parliamentary bill that is defended here, and therefore I would expect the Minister of the Interior to comment on it. For example, I would expect from the Minister for Legislation and Human Rights, we have not yet seen a solution, such as the situation of Czech children in Norway, from which the Minister for Human Rights has publicly distanced itself. And here he deals with the service law, which is a pasquila, instead of focusing on protecting the interests of the Czech people in other countries!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u56	Thank you. Now, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u57	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to respond to the words of President Schwarzenberg. I basically agree with his words, I just want to remind you that not all things in the last parliamentary term have been transmitted consensually. I think that, for example, pension reform is also worth a wider debate and should be adopted consensually. The pension reform that you adopted, or some things in social matters, did not end happily. So I just welcome it, and I'm sure we're ready to have a debate on the Service Act for us. As far as the remark is concerned - in the current text, Members cannot directly enter diplomacy, or this passage is not there. And on the other hand, we will remember that when you were Minister of Foreign Affairs, there was no room in diplomacy for former foreign ministers, so it's also strange.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u58	Thank you. Mr Jandák's point of order now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u59	I will be very brief, Mr President. Thank you. I'm always brief! I, ladies and gentlemen, wanted to get off, and it would probably be my first time to agree with my previous speaker, Mr. Schwarzenberg. Half of his speech, what he said, I'm gonna sign, not the other one, of course, because when I think about how Kosovo, for example, was discussed here, and today he's just raising the flag of truth, it makes me a little sick, but that's not what we're here for. We're here to discuss the amendment to the Service Act. When I see the House dying and I see the desire, sometimes spoken, sometimes unspoken, about having to revisit this and in quotation marks the quality material and recapture something that suits this country, not our vanity, so please, let's sit down, let's not torture ourselves here! I mean, this is useless what we're doing here! [[Let's hear it.]] You guys are babbling to pay the time, and we're bored and we're like, "Jesus Christ, let him talk so we don't accept this crap!" That's the truth! [[Fun and applause on the right.]] And I don't care because I'm 67 years old. There are no more posts for me. That is why I have and will behave according to the Constitution, I will speak according to my conscience! The law is not good! We all know that. The 2002 Law - and I love President Zeman - is stupid too! He's got this law, you know, every law has some kind of diction, and he's got a ghost in particular. And we, as legislators, should look at both these parts of the law - philosophy, the spirit of the law, and then the diction. But all we're doing is getting the EU to tell us, and we're gonna do a stupid diction without a ghost! And that's wrong! Let's think about the spirit of the law. That law basically hinders democracy in this country! Here elected representatives of the people will not rule, here noble people will rule determined by someone noble! And that's wrong. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] But unfortunately, or thank God, I don't know, we're part of the EU, there's more positive, and that's what I'm standing on -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u60	Your time, Mr. Ambassador! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u61	I'll finish it. It is only about fulfilling what we have, and the EU does not say: The law will sound like this. Create a law, Čech, Moravan and Slezan. Okay, let's make it, but we're not gonna make a stupid law!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u62	Mr. Ambassador, there are only two minutes to make a point of fact. If you want to have a longer speech, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u63	Have I been talking that long? Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u64	Sign up properly for the debate. Thank you. I will now ask Mr Šarapatka's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am far from as good a speaker as Mr Jandák, but I must respond to the words of President Schwarzenberg. During his work 300 employees were removed from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of which 150 career diplomats, and were replaced by diplomatic children. So his argument is completely odd. I also want to comment on the law. The law is undoubtedly wrong, and although I may have three pages of comments on it, however, since 2002 we have been trying to bring it into force. Bad law is always better than none. [[Speech of disapproval in the right side of the hall.]] It is!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u66	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Stanjura has a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u67	I really have to say the opposite. No law is better than bad law! [[Let's hear it from the right.]] And while I'm at the microphone and I have a hundred seconds left, today we heard again that the European Commission wants to. And I ask which one? The one that's ending or the one that's coming, and now the commissioners are gonna run around the national factions and say, "Give us the vote, I'll be a good commissioner, give us the vote." Which one? Then deal with the new ones! Here's our candidate for the Euro Commissioner. Is she threatening to take away $500 billion from us? I don't think so! Then let's not be scared. And let us not concern ourselves with the leaving European Commission at all. After all, three or four commissioners are MEPs, now we have three new Euro Commissioners who nobody knows, so let us not be appalled at all! Let's talk about passing a good law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u68	Thank you. With a factual remark, I do not report anybody, in which case duly logged in to the debate. The first is Mr Leoš Heger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon again. Let me also speak on the subject of the Civil Service Act, even though the TOP 09 and the Mayors have already spoken officially on that law repeatedly. So here I quote a statement that was absolutely clear. We said that stability and impartial professionalism of the state administration should undoubtedly be one of the objectives of this law. In recent months, however, the government coalition has behaved completely contrary to this principle and has implemented an unprecedented, unqualified personnel purge in hundreds of cases at central offices. It is certainly not in the interests of the Czech Republic, and in no way does the European Union require us to preserve a state in which the coalition will be unqualifiedly deployed to the leaders of the state administration of hundreds of politically or personally friendly people. The TOP 09 therefore fundamentally disagrees with the way in which the selection procedure is opened, with the Institute of the Director General, with the centralisation of personnel powers at the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, and with the way in which state secretaries and their subordinate executives are appointed. However, this opinion does not mean that TOP 09 does not want the Civil Service Act. I would say for myself that the most important thing our public service needs is professionalism. When I joined the Ministry of Health, we have been discussing the payment system for health care providers for 15 or more years, the payment system, which comes from public health insurance, the system called. DRG, or diagnosis payments. In the surrounding countries, the diagnosis payment was introduced in the range of two to five years and then started to be used and gradually adjusted. We have been discussing this payment for 15 years and by the time I joined the Minister of Health, the Ministry's Public Health Insurance Department was not the only person who understood the system. Not a person who would be able to cultivate him as a civil servant, design his changes, design procedures to implement the system quickly, but there wasn't a person who understood him at all. In every hospital, from small to large, there were economists who dealt with this issue and did not have the opportunity to influence the state and the Ministry of Health to implement this methodology. And it is a methodology that has proven itself well in all the countries that use it. The introduction continued to stagnate only because there were no people in the Ministry who were able to read about this methodology, ask abroad, ask users of this system, ask what needs to be done, learn it and start implementing the system. I could give a similar example of health care management here for an hour, but I won't bother you with health care. I just wanted to say this as a reason why I personally consider the introduction of a civil service to be very necessary under a reasonable law. I remember the period at the beginning of the current millennium around 2000, when there was much discussion about the quality of government, when there was discussion about the transformation of public administration, about the creation of a regional arrangement. It was discussed on the basis of the facts repeatedly brought to us by people from abroad, namely the fact that if some of the different levels of public service are weakest, it is the level of public service at government level. It is sad and, in my opinion, it is one of the reasons why this country is not prospering. Again, I am saying this to encourage hope and your faith in the fact that even the opposition today wants the law to come into existence, but it has been created in a form that will benefit this country and will not only benefit some political parties that will be occupied by the government. I have prepared a longer material based on the research that I conducted in our press and in the Internet media about how difficult it was to prepare what started in 2000, meaning the approval of the State Administration Act, which never came into effect, how difficult efforts were to implement the law or to launch it. I have divided my message into several chapters. Let me begin by summing up the logic of my argument against the version of the Civil Service Act, which is currently proposed. I want to present the facts here and clarify the circumstances and explain why the procedure should be followed to return the whole proposal to second reading, which should renegotiate the problems I will be discussing, and where at least a partial coalition agreement that seeks to push through should be implemented, an agreement with the opposition. I will gradually go through materials relating to issues in law and material that show that not only attempts by previous governments but also existing versions did not provide a problem-free view of the issue during preparation. I will gradually discuss in the media how the preparation of the law for Rusnokův's governments was commented on what the views were when the current proposal began to be born, in the area of structures that are close to the State Reconstruction, Transparency International, close to today's coalition. I will repeat what has already been mentioned here, what was the latest position of the members of the State Reconstruction Platform, although my previous speakers from the opposition said it was a lobbyist platform that should not be mentioned here. I think that lobbyism is not an indecent word, that it belongs to the games and techniques in which the laws are formed, and it should be worked with and argued not only positively with lobbyists, but it should also be argued openly against them, so that the whole debate has some meaning and some juice. Finally, I will mention an interesting observation from one of the last coalition negotiations, which also demonstrates how it looks with a look at the government's removal. [[14.50 hours]] First of all, let me mention something from the press regarding the preparation of the Civil Service Act or its amendment version and the Rusnokův Government. I will quote from the material that is accessible on the Internet, the material structure which calls itself the Czech Position, the material that was created around November 2013. The material says about the following: Many political party leaders promised the adoption of the Service Law in the pre-election debates. The standard to regulate the status of civil servants has become one of the key electoral topics. While negotiations between potential coalition partners on what form this law should take are still under way, says the material, Rusnokův's government is already holding and preparing its own version of the key law, which is to reform the state administration in a fundamental way. And the author asks: Does Rusnokův's cabinet rely on the proposal to eventually push through? So why is this fundamental law supposed to be, why are we talking about the service law as a fundamental law at all? The law is designed to increase the quality and efficiency of government administration, ensure its professionalisation, depoliticalisation and stabilisation. Moreover, according to Rusnokův's government, his acceptance was that one of the conditions for drawing European subsidies from the beginning of next year would therefore be conditional on the approval of the law, because the Czech Republic is the only country of the European Union which does not have effective legislation on the status of civil servants, although it was one of the accession conditions. Let us add that such a standard is also mentioned in the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Article 79 states: The legal situation of civil servants in ministries and other administrative offices is governed by the law. Rusnokův's government in demise, even though she knew her mandate was limited in time, embarked on its own version of the bill. There was already a version from the previous government, from the Nečasův government. Three options were discussed in the government and only the third variant was passed and the opposition then called it a pasquil. So it's clear that Rusnokův's government was interested in doing the idea of doing it on its own, and the law was to return it to where it originally wanted to be when the law was created. Even in the programme statement, Rusnokův's government had that it was aware of the need to adopt the Act on Officials as EU conditions for drawing European funds, and it would therefore promote the continuation of the process of approving the draft legislation for the status of civil servants that had already existed here. Unlike Nečasův's government, Jiří Rusnok's cabinet has decided to give priority to private law. This amendment is based on the 2002 Service Act, which, as we know, is valid, but its effectiveness has been postponed indefinitely, and also, as has been said here, to the beginning of 2015. At all, the private law, the public law was much discussed in the preparations, so let's review what was written about it. Private law, based on the bill from the time of Nečasův' government, governs the relationship between equal participants. The law gives officials almost the same status as other employees. On the contrary, the 2002 service law is based on public law, i.e. that the State and the state authorities act as superiors to subordinates. Typical is, for example, the career order, the possibility of disciplinary punishment, guarantees special protection, such as tenure or difficult conditions for appeals. However, it may require more from officials, for example, to waive the right to strike. Ruskonův's government's work at all was greatly influenced by the European Commission's idea of pressure. That is why the government, in demise, embarked on the preparation of such a serious standard as the service law, and was criticised for this. In view of the pressure of the European Commission to adopt and implement the law governing the legal status of officials in relation to the future use of European funds, the government considered that there was not much room for waiting with its hands in its lap and that there was a real possibility of winding up the legislatures, a political consensus on the version prepared by the current government. The Parliament of the Czech Republic will decide on the adoption of the law in its current composition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u70	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Even if we have four minutes until the end of our negotiations, I'll ask you, colleagues, to keep our voices down, so we can stick with our attention until the end. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u71	Thank you. I'm sure I won't be able to make my speech in four minutes, but at least in peace I'll try to set up some logical end to this part. So Rusnokův's government argued that eventually Parliament will decide on the adoption of the law in the Czech Republic in the composition in which it was in the existence of Rusnokův's government, and it will therefore be up to Parliament whether it will accept or amend the variant that Rusnokův's government has prepared. The problem was, therefore, that the government, in a demise without de facto legitimacy, prepared a key law, which constitutes a fundamental reform of state administration and the execution of political decisions. Its impact on the functioning of the state and complexity is similar to agendas such as the preparation of the Czech Republic's accession to the European Union or NATO. Work on the draft standard took place behind closed doors without any professional and public discussion of their parameters. So we see that history keeps repeating itself. The 2002 law was supposed to be the basis, but how much the upcoming version would be followed was not clear. Rusnokův's cabinet relied on potential coalition partners who were born back then to end up failing to agree and to push their own bill through. At least that's how the previous press speculated. Let's remember one more thing. Maybe I can make it in two minutes. What was the position of the Reconstruction of the State, a platform that has been mentioned many times here. The reconstruction of the state considered that the majority of the newly elected 160 Members, who had signed up to enforce the amendment of the service law of 2000, and that these Members also agreed with the parameters of the administrative standard as proposed by the reconstruction project of the state, but the reconstruction of the state somehow assumed that this was a denial of what its ideas looked like. Moreover, it was clear that the law was not enough just to push through and that the law would need to work with it in addition to the adoption of some other changes in the long term, because the misconception is that the very adoption of the law will resolve the depoliticisation of the state administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u72	Mr Member, I am sorry, but since we voted in the morning that the third reading will take place within 15 hours, including the debate, and the 15th hour has now come to an end, I will ask you, because I will have to interrupt the meeting so that you can finish your speech on Friday first after the debate. Is that acceptable to you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u73	Thank you. I'll continue Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-30-ps2013-012-06-003-025.u74	Thank you. Because we voted to discuss the third reading by three o'clock in the afternoon, which is now, I thank you, colleagues, for your time. I'm interrupting our negotiations, and we'll continue Friday at 9:00 in the morning. Have a nice summer days, see you Friday.
