ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u1	United debate on paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 I am opening a general debate on all three points, i.e. paragraphs 19, 20 and 21. The President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura has been the first to sign up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Then I'm registering the applicant's application and then the other applications. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, although after expressing the rapporteur, it seems almost unnecessary, but still a few words. For these three bills, we have essentially two options as the Chamber of Deputies. Either we have a serious debate about what the spending rule is supposed to be, what mechanisms and when the debt brake is triggered, how we want it, or whether we do not want to limit the management of self-government, whether it is the correct percentage of total income or other, or whether we take a purely political aspect, prestigious, and reject it. [[unintelligible]] I see that the latter won the government coalition, but I want to say for us that we could support it and pretend that it was our idea ten years ago, which is true, or 12 years ago. Many laughed at us and said: what is this fiction, these are mostly those who follow the European Union blindly. So when the European Union's main mainstream adopted it, they say: we must accept it - and I say: it is good. I would like to quote from the forthcoming government statement that we have from public sources - I note that it is a proposal and I am aware that it may not be in the final version after all. However, in Chapter 3/16 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government's Office, the sentence is: "As an expression of responsible fiscal policy, the government will join the fiscal pact and, given the close link between the Czech financial sector and the European sector, will actively defend its interests in the emerging banking union, including preparation for accession." [[Treaty on stability, cooperation, governance in economic and monetary union]] I remember the expert debate in the working group that Mr Kalousek spoke about when we invented this bonmot for the position of the Czech Social Democratic Party, which I am happy to share with you, because in my view their position at the time and today exactly corresponds to the tactics that the Czech Republic is voting for: we are in favour of signing the fiscal pact, which really means that we will not have to do it, because those who are a little bit interested in it know that it is binding on the countries that have the euro as their currency, so we will sign it, because there is no danger that anyone would enforce it, we have to follow it, it is such a pro-European one, it sounds good, and at the same time we can have the expenditure framework that we want. And then they said, "That's why we don't want a financial institution." On the other hand, when I speak for the ODS and not for the TOP 09, we said: We are opposed to signing a fiscal compact, including because it does not concern us at this time, and because we are not holding anyone back, we do not need the approval of the Czech Republic, we have sufficient ratification of the 12 countries that pay the euro, and because we do not pay the euro, we do not prevent any of our partners in the European Union from happiness and in the common policy, but we think that we should accept this because of the situation in the Czech Republic, and we want us to push through those clear rules of responsible management as soon as possible, and we are ready to debate with the opposition on the parameters of this solution. And I think that's true. I can want to apply those rules or I don't have to. The debate about whether we should adopt a fiscal compact is - and now we can ask if it's five, six, seven years premature. This will be up to date at the moment when either the government or, as we propose, the citizens in the referendum decide whether to adopt the euro. [[18.50 hours]] The moment we adopt the euro, I think that the logical co-step is that, as the Czech Republic, when we decide to have the euro, we approve the fiscal pact. If, of course, they do not change several times by then, because at a time when the more passionate supporters of the Treaty of Lisbon convinced us of the benefits of this Treaty, we said, that is very advantageous, because it guarantees that one state will not guarantee the debts of another state. And that was in 2008 or 2009. Let us just see how the situation has changed in three, four or five years in European politics. I want to say that, of course, we are in favour of the next reading, and that we are in favour of having a debate both professional and political, because this material is also intended to influence self-government. And it is not an entirely simple decision, and many of us sitting in this House have experience with self-government, we know what the constitutional principles of self-government are, and I think it belongs to the whole public budget sector. However, I think the debate must be detailed. By rejecting it, and proudly announce here next Tuesday that you want the fiscal pact, the problem will not move one millimeter forward. I'd like to hear it, but you don't have to answer me today, but if you want to tonight, what doesn't match the draft of these blocks of laws to the fiscal pact you want to sign? What makes them so different, what goes against. I do not think we will find the relevant answers to these questions. So what we say will apply. You want to sign it, but you don't want to follow it, and we want to follow it. That's what the vote's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u3	Thank you, honourable Member. Now with another priority right, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and the Mayor, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u4	I do not now wish to raise a proxy dispute with my previous speaker on the suitability or unsuitability of accession to the fiscal compact and whether or not to accept the euro by referendum. I am of the opposite opinion, but this is not the subject of the materials under discussion. This is the subject of a draft constitutional law and two related laws. And I have heard basically the only objection from the rapporteur, which would normally be relevant, that it is legislation, and it is a code of such magnitude that, indeed, after serious discussion with local authorities, with health insurance companies and with other segments of public budgets, the government should present it. If it really were so that, until then, there was no political or professional discussion about it, if we were just to say after the elections: they are arguing with each other, both social democracy and then the coalition, three months before blinding some government, what we are going to do in the meantime, we will write a fiscal constitution depending on how it comes to us, so the objection would certainly be relevant. But it's not like that, folks. There's three years of hard work behind us. I agree that not this government, but three years of hard work at government level, with government legislation, with other political clubs, with local authorities, with municipalities, with the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I stress that health insurance companies were difficult to discuss, because health insurance companies are, of course, an important segment of public budgets, and after this discussion for more than three years we have on the table this material, which logically originated at government level. I really don't think that if you're taking this seriously and you want to accept something like this and you insist that the government put it forward that you can get out of government level if you follow the interest to approve the constitutional law, get to the diametrically different texts. Because, of course, we had to work with this in order to obtain, if possible, and we complied with everything there to obtain the consent of social democracy, otherwise we could not achieve a constitutional majority. And even you, however strong, powerful and majority, do not have the constitutional majority either. That means, if you're serious, you have to conduct this discussion so that we can reach the constitutional majority. I am here declaring that there will be particularly new colleagues who have not participated in the two to three years of work on this material, I am declaring that there is an absolute willingness to the amendments that we will be able to agree on. I declare that we can extend the negotiation period to 120 days so that we can be sure that we can discuss this properly. But just throw away those three years of work and say, we'll do better... I don't think you believe it yourself. Because even at the technical level, of course, it will be written by the same people who wrote it to us. That's all you have. If you reject it on the basis of this objection and this argument, it is of course your right, I will respect it, but then I will necessarily think that you do not want it any different and better. That you just don't want it at all and you're looking for some substitute reason for it, just like before the election, our partners were looking for opposition when they didn't want it at all and they were making up new and new reasons. And then even, and I respect that, then they couldn't even say it on the floor of the MP's club. They just left it to the highest leadership of their party, where the Party Bureau sat down and said, "No. Our party won't take the deal. But that was the opposition party. Now it's the strongest government party, and it has the same responsibility that we have. And I think we share the responsibility for public budgets. Let's give it a try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u5	Thank you, honourable Member. Another party to the general debate is Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u6	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. It must be said, first of all, that the draft constitutional law was presented last term as a government proposal. It was submitted without an implementing law. Yes. We wanted it to go, implementing law. However, it was not merely a lack that the implementing law was not attached to it. I took part in a commission that Mr Kalousek remembered, a commission that he initiated when he was Minister of Finance. I must say that we have made a number of comments, but also a number of comments have not been accepted in the final version. We've always said, let's join the fiscal compact, that's also our condition. Yes. Through Mr President, Mr Stanjur. However, it must be said honestly that Minister Kalousek at the time was inclined to sign the fiscalcompact. That's true. Unfortunately, he probably couldn't get it through the government, or he just said that without really wanting it. But I'm sure he knows that best. It is also not the first time that the idea of regulating budgetary policy has been born in Czech politics. There was a mention of that. In the 1990s, the ODS submitted such a bill on an eternally balanced state budget, if I remember correctly. She wanted to introduce it, of course, by law, by law. But it was also rejected at the time. First of all, I would like to stress that it has been quite clear that social democracy considers the real correction of public finances and their long-term sustainability in addition to the absolutely necessary support for economic growth, and I stress this as one of the fundamental tasks of the economic policy of the state. However, we have fundamental reservations about the policy of previous right-wing governments, which, under the banner of the correction of public finances, have actually made the situation worse. [[19.00 hours]] Colleagues, you've had seven years to come up with a law like that. You've come to the end of the last term, you might say. I guess you knew why you were presenting it back then. And I think Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, I'm sorry, he knows why he's putting this on now. Secondly, we believe that the draft constitutional law cannot be enforced on its own, without clear and clear anchoring in the current reality of the development of public finances and sovereign debt. In a reality that you brought the Czech Republic to. Not social democracy. Not the current coalition, because the other two parties weren't here at the time. So it was you who brought us into this state that had to be dealt with in some way. And the situation is very bad. After the completion of seven years of government budgetaryly responsible, in quotation marks, right-wing coalitions reached the state debt of the Czech Republic almost twice the starting value. We're at 1.7 beats today. Crowns. That means you, my friends, doubled him, the debt. You doubled it! In the area of public finances, the right has done only one thing. We're gonna run out of budget reserves. That was 180 billion. You've managed to exhaust them, too. You got these in wine from previous governments in which social democracy was involved. The fact that the budgetary procedure in the Czech Republic has been and is poorly managed, planned and also controlled is becoming increasingly apparent. It establishes increasingly effective budgets based on more fictional income. You, colleagues, were also involved in this. Instead of a conceptual long-term budgetary policy, the public finances of the Czech Republic were managed on an ad hoc day by some budget packages combined with ongoing cuts on the expenditure side of the state budget. They are also referred to by the presented so-called ones. a financial institution. Cutbacks that mean nothing but a significant increase in hidden debts. These are marked by the entire infrastructure of the Czech state, defence and security, starting with health, education, culture, environmental protection and transport, for example. However, debts are also created at the living level of most Czech citizens. Public finances are corrected in the slim suppression of all-embracing corruption and in the apparently poor planning and management of public finance processes, especially in the key state budget, again, in quotation marks, in the easiest way, by reducing the standard of living of Czech citizens, employees mainly from the budgetary and contribution sphere, pensioners, unemployed, sick, low-income socially needed families. In order for two governments of right-wing coalitions to prove their true interest in correcting public finances, establishing order, and spending and income sides of public budgets to have enough time. That's what I said. You had seven years. They had plenty of time to intervene fundamentally against rampant tax evasion, corruption, work black, money laundering, and other negative phenomena. They also had enough time to remove from our tax system privileges for various interest groups and individuals, privileges to be taxed less than others. They also had enough time to carry out detailed audits of public budgets, public spending, and to establish elementary rules of effectiveness in public spending. In some parts, even merely order. This also applies to wage expenditure paid from public sources, including an audit of the adequacy of the remuneration of certain officials. For any of these, we believe that the government did not need such a financial institution or such a budgetary national council. And three. With the knowledge of developments in public budgets and knowledge of the fundamental contradiction between the declared objectives of previous coalitions and reality, the question of what purpose the financial constitution is supposed to serve is necessarily raised. Isn't this just some kind of a flimsy game? Doesn't the holy struggle for a financial institution have the purpose of convincing the population again that they're just right-wing parties who mean well with public finances when they couldn't convince them with real success anymore? If even with their suggestions on so-called. The financial institution will not agree with the emerging government, so is it against the consolidation of public budgets? Definitely not. Isn't it rather that the exponents of the previous failed economic policy of the state, which led the Czech economy into a long crisis, a prolonged social and economic crisis, are preparing for only using a kind of stick on coalition from opposition benches through compliance with the constitution? I don't think it's funny. The question, which is very sensitive, is the proposed regulation of the management of local authorities. We've been talking about this. It's a very sensitive matter. This regulation may even be on the verge of constitutionality. It can restrict certain sovereignty of self-governing bodies. If public finances are in trouble, local authorities will be forced into balanced management, which, of course, can cause a number of problems. And we really need to discuss these things properly with the Association of Regions, with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, just to have a wide discussion with these stakeholders. We also criticised the creation of the National Budget Board. As it is in the proposal, it is simply unacceptable for us. There is an effort to create a kind of supersupervision, or better said, a curate over the decision-making of the government, indirectly, and Parliament. And that doesn't change the fact that Parliament should also vote for this council. Who will the National Budget Board be responsible for anyway? Parliament? Will it bear any consequences for its erroneous decision-making, or will it just be here to declare that the share of debt in GDP is xy? There is simply an institute of some infallible judges, anointed heads, who know everything and order those downstairs what to do. It is simply not possible to get rid of the feeling that the parties, which were part of the previous two failed right-wing coalitions, as I said, are really trying to create a certain stick on the newly formed coalition. I would like to make it clear that social democracy is really interested, and this is also included in the coalition agreement, so that our country does not exceed the 60% debt limit in the coming years, relative to gross domestic product. That's what we've always declared, we've declared it in the coalition treaty, and it will certainly be in the government statement, this commitment. We simply want to be budgetaryly responsible, we are ready to look for substantive, sensible solutions. However, not to approach proposals that do not reflect the current reality, the reality that you, my friends, have caused, and which are meant to serve, and I repeat this once again, as a stick to the current political Garniture. The current government declares accession to the European budget treaty, to the fiscal pact. It's been discussed here. It also obliges the countries of the European Union to have more stringent budgetary discipline, low budget deficits, to reduce government debt if it is greater than 60 per cent of gross domestic product. And I think that if the government accedes to this pact, that it will also be based on this pact, even though we are not currently in the euro area. I want to remind you that the last Nečasův government vehemently resisted joining the fiscal pact, and so we were such exotics in the European Union, when together with the Great Britain, we were the only ones who did not join this fiscal compact. And I think that it is impossible to build outside the European integration current. One breath to speak, perhaps not the Civil Democratic Party, but to talk about wanting to go in this current, and on the other hand to do everything against the current. I don't think that's possible at all. [[19.10 hours]] So let's conclude. By accession to the fiscal pact, the government declares - the government will come out after accession to the fiscal pact from the conditions that are there, and I think the government will also prepare its draft measures to consolidate public budgets. I declare as a social democracy that we will join in rejecting this parliamentary proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I wanted to ask you if it would be possible to ensure adequate working conditions in this hall for us to do our job. There's so much noise here that my colleague, the chairman of the budget committee, who read the whole report, the report was long - it really hurts my head, my ears hurt. I want to read from the SZU website that it has a different solution. Maybe we can get headphones. It's recommended here as a precaution. Targeted prevention is the use of personal protective equipment against noise. Hearing protectors must be used if the sound pressure level A exceeds 85 decibels. Their waterfall should be such that noise levels below 85 decibels behind hearing protectors in the ear canal. When exposure to noise to 10 decibels is exceeded, it is recommended to insert the stopper protectors into the sound duct. During exposure over 95 decibels headphone protectors are recommended and over 100 decibels are usually fitted with noise helmets that also limit the bone conduction of sound. The use of hearing protectors can lead to a reduction - friends - of work safety and can reduce its productivity. If the use of hearing protectors is necessary, it is necessary to allow workers to choose from more than one type so as not to limit work comfort, e.g. excessive pressure by the head buckle or by sweating the ear. I really want to ask you very nicely, either whether we get the headphones, part of our expert can go for it, or whether the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies in this hall will actually ensure conditions that are in accordance with the Labour Code at such a workplace. Really, you can't hear it. And we've been here for a few hours, and I don't think it's over tonight, so please make sure the conditions for the House's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u9	Thank you, Madame. I take it this is a very interesting subject for the House's leadership, and I'm sure we'll look into it. On the contrary, I would like to say for us deaf that we are quite comfortable with this level, and then we hear it. Thank you. With another factual remark, the President of the Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u10	I'll try to get back to my colleague. Where the power of the argument is lacking, the power of the voice begins. That's pretty common. I don't have a stick. Note: I have no stick that I would like to beat you or anyone else in any way, as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets is very concerned. I didn't even design the law, but I have to give you some data. The government before last, last time, you like to forget about your Rusnokův, it started in 2011. Not in November 2013. Since 2012, you and the other representatives have been with me on that committee, and at that time we still had 118 votes in the House, then 115. If you really want this approved, like in your version, you're gonna need the votes of some opposition party. Whether you like it or not, whether you scream loudly or not, you're gonna have to hide your stick for a while. Or it turns out you don't really want it, and I don't think you want it. You're knowingly saying things that you either don't understand or confusing people who haven't dealt with it in the long run and don't have accurate information. Try, Mr President of the Committee on Budgets, through the Vice-President, to tell me what the proposal contradicts fiscal compact. That's the one you've been riding for. You like that one. In our opinion, the proposal - thank you for the heads-up, but I only scream sometimes, not all the time. Our proposal matches the fiscal compact. The fact that we said that the signature of the Czech Republic is formal, that it does not concern us, that we do not pay the euro is true. [[unintelligible]] And we will defend the interests of Czech citizens. You say, I must laugh, we will fight for lower energy prices - while your MEPs vote to increase energy prices. [[Attention on time.]] So you have to choose: either one or the other. They both don't work together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u11	I thank the President for his point of view. With another factual remark, the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u12	Since President Stanjura was also admonished from the benches not to shout, I would like to stand up for Mr Votava and Mr Stanjura. The gentlemen spoke only strongly. Wait till it's started by the Zaorálek. He used to go to 120 decibels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u13	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u14	Good evening. I would just like to invite Mrs Černochová here, through Mr President, to the Paskov mine, among the miners who are being announced that she will lose her job! So come in and you'll need earphones, ears, helmets, and I don't know what yet. Come to Paskov, that's where the miners will be happy to meet you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Stanislav Polčák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. After this performance, I'm almost embarrassed to perform. I did not assume that I could say anything specific about this law, because experts are different, but my colleague Černochová's speech provoked me a little, because I think that we are simply responsible for the level of noise ourselves to some extent. I'm sorry, but sometimes it just screams so loud that the noise level is so set in my opinion that the performance isn't even heard, and it looks like it's in the pavilion of monkeys, but sometimes it's just quiet, like now, and then when someone's talking, it sounds like they're yelling. But I don't think it's the House's leadership or the House's apparatus. I think it's a problem in us, and if we all listened to each other, it wouldn't ever seem like someone was yelling, or it would never seem like we couldn't hear each other at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u17	I thank the honourable Member for the recognition that it was so quiet that President Votava seemed to be screaming. With another proper application, Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, if we have solved the problem of decibels, if you don't mind, I would return to the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I think that's a really serious problem. I would like to give my opinion not only my opinion but also the whole KSČM faction, because we believe that this amendment to the Constitution is serious, and at times it seemed like we are just overreacting, whether we are going to make cuts in European blue or whether the cuts will be in Czech tricolore. And that's not what this is about. We want to create an effective, functional macroeconomic framework so that our economy can develop, so that at some point it can brake, but also at some point it can start. This is to be served by a certain instrument. These instruments, and they can be different, are discussed for at least 15 years in Europe. And if Mr. Emeritus Minister Kalousek feels that he is at the top of this evolutionary chain, that means that his proposal is so perfect that he can't be any better, and that there is nothing left but to slightly improve it and accept it, that means that we may add a drop of social democracy tar to the constitutional right-wing barrel of honey and we can move on happily, I don't think so. This is not just a controversy between the current government and now the right-wing opposition. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is also a leftist opposition, which is not entirely without some weight, in terms of the number of mandates, but I believe that even in terms of the number of comments and, say, conceptual considerations that you will either take into account or not. But it is not true that the constitutional majority must only form towards the right wall. [[19.20 hours]] As for the mainstream, or if you want the evolutionary chain of debates on how to deal with public finances in Europe, the ODS is right when it reminded us that it was not just the TOP 09 proposal and the Minister of Finance in the previous period, which came in 2011, but that the ODS also took some of the initiative, in particular, by conservatively liberal parts of the political spectrum in Europe and tried to cover the matter constitutionally. I remember a former colleague, Kocourek, who I think sometimes in 1998 wanted to smuggle one sentence into the Constitution. This one sentence wouldn't help anything, but at least it was the ODS's creed, and I think that the ODS is still holding on to this creed. The question is, is the credo reasonable? In 2002, the ODS proposed a more structured text to the Constitution at the time of the standing majority. It was very similar, it was a long way from the current version of the financial constitution, but it was all about the fact that the budget should actually be balanced, the budget should be watched by an independent authority, and politicians shouldn't have much to play with it, because whatever politics do, they basically screw up. Well, that's a conceptual question. Are we looking at some formal rules that either work or do not work, or do we want to completely depolitize fiscal policy? Because what the macroeconomic framework is supposed to look like is being discussed, of course, also the problem of, say, pollution concept by different partial, i.e. political interests. And it has already happened that monetary monetary monetary policy has been removed from the macroeconomic framework by gradually spreading central bank laws by increasing central bank independence, not on the political stage, but even on the executive stage. It's a certain trend, I agree. We can talk about central banks another time. Undoubtedly, recent monetary adjustment or intervention will give a whole range of interesting incentives. But today we are talking about fiscal policy, and the question is whether we want to bring this depoliticalization of fiscal policy to the end, where not only the expenditure framework, not only deficits, but the very content, that is, the fiscal policy structure was gradually pushed out of Parliament's decision-making. I think that this is a top policy and that, as far as the structure of the budget is concerned, the use of the fiscal instrument either as a brake or as a gas for economic policy should be maintained. The fact is that if we have created a common economic area by creating the European Union as a Union not only political but also economic, we have created a problem with how to treat it at macroeconomic level. And because we often miss a train in fiscal policy, some five years after the Maastricht Treaty, the concept of the Stability Pact emerged. Because the Maastricht Treaty laid down the Maastricht criteria, and they were largely ignored when I simplify it, the Stability Pact was sometimes created around the Treaty of Amsterdam, and it was thought that this document would sort things out. As is customary in the European Union, paper can bear anything, reality goes its way. So, in fact, an order has been made to improve, change, transmut the European Stability Pact to, for example, the Stability and Growth Pact, to give instruments that should really be either Brussels authority or national governments in their hands and have the opportunity to do these things in a way that corresponds to some developmental idea of the European Economic Area. So, if a fiscal compact has emerged, it is a reaction to the fact that ideas around the European Union's pact have more or less failed. But let's see if anything's changed since the fiscal compact was ratified. If the current data is not lying, and I do not think so, the entire southern wing of the eurozone and the European Union as such is still in the same, I would even say worse problems. That's right. So the question is whether this instrument is adequate, whether it is an effective brake, and if there is a yellow-star blue car besides the brake missing for the future into another economic situation, now we are hardly getting out of recession, if there is also a gas pedal missing. So that's one comment on the completion of conceptual ideas that we should do on our own, not under the dictation that what's already here, we have to accept, because otherwise it's not possible. The second factor in the game was the economic crisis factor itself. The crisis has strengthened this weakness in the management of individual national economic policies, but also in their coordination at European level, which is why the principle of debt brakes has been adopted, which has not only been incorporated at fiscal compact level, but has been incorporated in individual national constitutional rules. In Germany, I believe it was in 2009, when it was enacted. The UK first approved the Budget Supervisory Authority to adopt the budgetary rules as well. I could go on like this. So it was 2009, 2010. A time of crisis. And we can learn from experience. This means to what extent it helps or does not help. Unfortunately, the reality shows that even this instrument is far from perfect and that by combining the roof of fiscal compact with national instruments, it is certainly not the end of the evolutionary chain, that it is not simply perfect. The specific situation may then occur in so-called post-transformation countries, although it has been a quarter of a century since we have undergone certain changes, but the fact is that the eastern half of the European Union is rather the more backward one, which tends to solve problems from borrowed money. For example, when we look at Poland or Slovakia, which has already gone this way, first of all experience is contradictory. Each country is in a different economic situation, and if we look at the experience of Slovakia, then there, apart from constitutional regulations, is the institute that proposes this proposal, which is kind of an independent bureaucratic authority over the budget, now I can't remember exactly what it's called in Slovakia, a little bit different from ours, but the function is the same, so they found that this institute is basically for the cat, that it doesn't help the way it is set. Of course, the debt brakes are also in other countries, but there the experience for us is less portable. If they have invented something in Switzerland, it is similar to when Switzerland deals with immigration policy. That is what I think is not exactly usable for us, as well as the experience of solving these problems on the ground of the United States. So, as far as we're concerned, finding a tool complex, and I'm saying a complex, and I'm talking about both a European solution and a national one, it's not about a duel between a delayed ratification of fiscal compact. It is true that in 2012 the then Prime Minister Nečas disagreed with the then Deputy Prime Minister Kalousek and that we did not sign it, and unlike the UK, it was difficult to look for arguments because, of course, the UK is a country of another caliber, especially with regard to the position of its financial sector, but simply that fiscal compact is not just a softer version of the Czech solution, but that it should be a complement, but nowhere is it determined that the complement should look exactly as it is in the proposal of colleagues from TOP 09. [[19.30 hours]] For example, there is no obligation of the budgetary board, the question of the instruments used. There really is a difference between you turning only to public debt, no matter how you push it away. That means the 60 is the upper limit. And if current or future governments don't want to get into some kind of political trap, it's logical that they're trying to shift the boundaries a little bit. Clearly, we should talk about the structure of setting such a thing. The problems are already on the ground, and not that they can be debugged in a simple way in second reading. What I'm saying already suggests where I want to go. It's not a prestigious thing for us. If we are those who declare that we are in the European current or those who win by making the Czech solution better than the European one, we do not have this prestigious problem. We want it to work. And that is why we think that not only does it have to be left to the government to renegotiate it and to think about whether it is enough to pass through the ratification process on the recommendation from the Castle, albeit with a delay of two years, a fiscal compact, and whether it is mandatory - optional, like - she does not like in what form the Czech debt brake. But that it is a matter of all of us, and therefore it would not be good to kill the initiative that is here. But it will be hard to look for understanding over the proposal. So if ever a year, perhaps even later, a government version appears, if the versions of fellow Members from the TOP 09 remain in circulation, and we play with time and prolong it and prolong it, as we sometimes do with opposition proposals, we will not get a happy ending. So, it's not a hobby, it's not an attempt to find a third way, but rather to create political, factual, professional conditions for us to find the penetration. This means that I would suggest that the draft constitutional law be returned to my colleagues for recasting. Because there's a merged debate on three prints, so in the logic that the prints are connected, I'd make it conditional on the other prints. That is, if in the first case the rejection wins, there's nothing to deal with, it's no use for any prints to move around like a vicious boulder, and we adapt to it. But if there was a possibility of a return in the first press, I would recommend it to the rest of the press on this condition. If, of course, you ask what we want to bring into this discussion, so that I do not delay, because it is late and we really are not going to precise these things here today, is the first reading, and it seems that we will be deciding between survival, rejection and rethinking, I would sum up the reservations that we made last February at the first reading of the government proposal, and I think they have not lost their momentum even today. So you can also see the approach - we were also suggesting that the government be redesigned at the time. So even the approach is continuous and consistent. One of the reservations was the position and competence of the National Budget Board, so that it would simply not be some irresponsible newsstand that reduces the importance of political decision-making over public budgets. I remind you that this institute is getting beyond what the European standard, a fiscal compact, would impose on us. Another, perhaps an even more important element, is that the government should have the possibility of certain fiscal impulses in the future. I know that we don't have to conceptually agree here that the fiscal policy functions of the right and left are different. I am also not a bigoted Keynesian, but I think that fiscal impulses are simply not only in the setting of budgetary rules, e.g. tax, but that a certain expansion of public expenditure in the area of investment can be considered. And this isn't where we're gonna set up a dam that we can't use in the future. And then I have to touch the so-called question. segments of the entire public finance pie. Mr. Minister... former Minister... last term bad habit. So the former minister here said that the segments couldn't be removed because it wouldn't work. I guess he's got a point there. But it must also be seen that the individual segments have a very specific role, a specific legal position. And, by the way, even for that reason in the proposal at the time, and I suspect that this is also the case, those segments were not definitively, but temporarily excluded in the sense that the effectiveness of this law in relation to local authorities was postponed by four years at the time. So in a way, it's also possible to think about it, and we need to look for modes for those specific segments. I'm going to touch another segment, which we also picked up at the time, and they asked for a slightly different solution, and these are the health insurance companies. Of course, the 200 billion that revolve in public health insurance are significant money. But health insurance companies, especially public health insurance companies, perform certain specific constitutional functions. And the fact that somebody's gotten too involved with public money doesn't mean that public insurance companies are going to fall into one, I'd say, an emergency regime, and in this country, they're going to stop being treated, they're going to pay off county hospitals, and so on. Now, I may have overestimated it with a little hyperbole, but the risk of the non-specific regime's impact on this segment of public finances is undoubtedly here. So there's something to talk about, there's something to talk about conceptually, there's something to talk about in business and across the political spectrum. This leads me to the conclusion that I would reiterate that our approach is not to avoid constitutional budgetary responsibility. Our approach is to set the rules so that they do not harm, so that only those who can least defend themselves do not have to pay, i.e. a client of public finances and public services, and to think that the economy is not only in recession, but that it sometimes needs to be kicked into the conjunctural phase. Therefore, we would like these proposals to be renegotiated in order to agree on what platform to discuss, so that we do not play too much for the time, who has bigger shoulders and breasts daddy our all-knowing, but to agree on, perhaps, those working committees where I hope, this time, even experts from the strongest opposition club might not be missing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Antonín Seďa joined the discussion next. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I can understand the reasons for which the opposition has tabled a draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, because neither I nor any of us like debt. I merely recall that the same proposal was made by the right-wing Nečasův government during the previous term of office, and I pointed out that it was one of the worst proposals put forward by the then government coalition, particularly from the point of view of enforcement, control of its application and interference with the powers of self-government. The explanatory memorandum states that the constitutional law should improve the overall economy of the Czech Republic, enhance transparency and efficiency of public finances and, as a result, promote the competitiveness of the Czech economy. Please, there's no law, no constitutional law, there's no way he can do that. And it really seems strange to me that the parties who claim right-wing ideas do. All these objectives can be achieved only by a competitive economy, quality and efficient state and public administration, and especially by qualified, responsible and educated citizens of our country. In its opinion, honourable Members, Prime Minister Rusnok's Government expressed a number of specific reservations, whether in terms of the complexity of implementing and amending laws, problematic provisions in relation to constitutionality, after the fundamental legislative technical flaws of the bill. I would add that the bill only estimates the costs of setting up the National Budget Board of CZK 50 million per year. I ask: Where is the draft law evaluating the impact of regulation on public budgets and the impact assessment on corruption? If we intend to be budgetaryly responsible, these assessments need to be required for all laws. [[19.40 hours]] I personally believe that the proposed law is not fully in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and, on the contrary, I believe that it is this constitutional law that violates our Constitution. First of all, it significantly limits the powers and competences of not only the Chamber of Deputies and the Government, but, in particular, the self-government of local authorities and public bodies. I ask: Why should we create another office when we have the Czech Statistical Office and Eurostat to collect statistical data? What good is such a law when the Czech Republic is a member of the EU with a long-term goal of joining the European Economic and Monetary Union? The convergence criteria clearly define the limit for the general government deficit or the non-transferability of the general government debt. Dear colleagues, in my opinion, the bill on budgetary responsibility is not only contrary to the Constitution, but also contrary to the promise that we have made as Members. The sanctions for breach of budgetary discipline are proposed as collective and do not judge individual guilt, which is once again contrary to the laws in force in our country. I am not going to support a law that limits the democratic decision-making of the Chamber of Deputies and restricts the rights of legislators. For these reasons, I join the motion to reject the bill and, in the event that this proposal is not approved, I propose to further return the bill to the petitioners for completion. And this applies not only to the House press 24, but also to paragraphs 20 and 21. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u21	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Mr Ludvík Hovorka has also joined the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues. I would like to touch on Article 9, 10, 11, i.e. the moment when the critical condition occurs. In essence, according to the bill, there will be an artificially created critical state and it will start to be saved by compulsory cancellation of some expenditures, including those approved by the State Budget Act. The government will basically be forced by this constitutional law to act against the law if, for example, it limits expenditure on pensions, teacher's salaries, social benefits, etc. These restrictions will be approved by the House as an agenda of government. What's gonna happen? The Constitutional Court may be overwhelmed by an endless series of disputes about what was previously, which the declared commitment of the State takes precedence - whether what was previously approved as pensions, social benefits, or what is called. fiscally responsible as a balanced budget. This will also apply to the management of the regional council, for the regions. The budget is approved by the House, so is it possible that in the end this budget will be approved as a constitutional law only in order to avoid possible disputes over what will be based on the rules of this passed law? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 13 also have their legal tasks to carry out, and they receive money for some of them. By merely limiting the money supply, the obligations imposed by law will not disappear. It is a matter of responsible government and self-government to carry out its duties properly, and no law on crisis management will solve this. He can only complicate the situation. The institution that is being proposed to oversee the balanced budget, the National Budget Board, will also cost something. At least 50 million crowns and will probably be as national and independent as the Czech National Bank. It is not clear who will control the activities of this National Council. No one has to be held accountable or controlled. It will have the right to invite not only the government but also other representatives of self-governing bodies and other public officials on the carpet. So these are my doubts, which are actually in relation to these laws, which are presented and whose debate has been merged into them in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. The last one for the debate is Mr František Laudát. And then Mr. Speaker. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take this very quickly for the sake of time, and given that the rapporteur has taken it down and put forward a motion for rejection, and I assume that the coalition is kind of voting on it. It's a big shame, because the regulation of public spending is happening more or less... it's almost a century away. Too bad Mr. Okamura isn't here. I had to find out how it works in Switzerland. Of course it's not an automatic insurance policy against the world's experience, that we're automatically in the water if we pass clear rules. They can always be broken, and it depends on -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u25	I will ask the Member to speak louder, clearer and louder, because we deaf people do not understand him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u26	I didn't mean to scream. It depends on how the law or set of laws is set up to be quite obvious that they cannot be broken. We have experience from all over the world that rules are broken. For example, in the United States, where you can see that even within one year, the parameters are even changing twice, because there is an Orwell rule that a common will of the House and Congress can be broken. And you know what always happens after six months in the last few years. At the same time, there I would look for inspiration for the fact that it does not make sense, on the one hand, to the general deficit of public expenditure or to the state budget to neglect something, such as health and social insurance. The United States has a debt today, if I'm not mistaken for 17 trillion, but if you put the existing obama Care insurance on it, in 2010, it was astronomical $108 trillion. Now, pretty much those who are thinking, and if a miracle doesn't happen, they figured that by 30 years, the United States could go bankrupt if it didn't match any other effect. I therefore assume that the coalition and some of its parties, especially the YES movement, have won with it, or have gained a huge influence on the political scene, that it will make transparent finances, that it will deal with every crown, so its rapporteur here today is doing the exact opposite. Given the time, I'm gonna skip over how it works in Germany again. And I assume, then, that next week when they ask for confidence in the government, in the Netherlands, at the beginning of each parliamentary term, the government will approve agreements on public finances and budgetary policy, i.e. how the money will be spent and how it will be obtained. The expected development of the national and world economy is particularly important in the preparation of budgetary policy for the next four years. Where it actually works, because it doesn't try to deceive the regulation of public spending, is New Zealand. So that you know what we're dealing with in the ideal area, and it's really not about the right or the left, because the debt doesn't ask whether it was caused by the left or the right. As you know, the biggest crisis in the last decades has arisen in the United States from total dilettanteism and the disbanding of some financial products. I'm gonna go back to New Zealand, and then I'm gonna end up reading you their fiscal responsibility rules: The reduction of the country's total debt to a reasonable degree in order to create a buffer against factors that may have a negative impact on the overall amount of debt in the future, and until that level of debt is reached, the total operating expenditure of the State in each financial year must be lower than the total operating expenditure in the same financial year. [[19.50 hours]] Point number two. Once a reasonable level of overall country debt is reached, this level is to be maintained, which is to be achieved by not having the total operating expenditure of the country exceeded their total revenue for a reasonably long time. Three. Achieving and maintaining the level of net value of a country that will provide protection against factors that may adversely affect the country's net value in the future. Four. Careful management of the fiscal risks facing countries. Five. Monitoring policy consistent with a reasonable degree of predictability of the level and stability of tax rates for future years. This is what we have tried to do in rough terms during the past period. As the chairman of the Committee on Budgets has shown, you have understood nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u27	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, has now applied for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I have basically applied to the final word, but since I do not want to abuse the position of the petitioner, which allows me to speak after the debate is closed, I would like to say the final word in the debate, in order to possibly allow for a response. I'll be very brief, just allow for a short reaction to some of the performances. Mr Dolejš, with all due respect, is wrong when he says that I believe that the proposal is perfect and that no one can do better than that. This really is not the case, and I thought that I had explained this enough in my opening speech. If the design were to be what I really wanted it to be, it would look completely different. We are presenting something that is the result of almost three years of work and hard discussion across the political spectrum, not only across the political spectrum, but also with the other segments of public budgets, whether they are health insurance companies or local authorities, or the Union of Towns and Municipalities. The chairman of the Committee on Budgets said that we did not work on some of the remarks of social democracy in this government proposal that was discussed here in the House at the time. That's true - but it's already in this pattern. That is what we have just stepped up to, that we have worked up all the comments of social democracy, except for the one comment that, in my opinion, social democracy has never wanted it, it does not want it today, and it will not want it for the entire parliamentary term. We can't work that out. But try to tell me, Mr President, what was not incorporated in your comments at the time. It's really all there. Not that I agree with that, but in the interest of consensus, to get to something that we are able to approve and for which we are able to find a constitutional majority. The same applies to comments on the National Budget Board. I confess that if I look at her as Miroslav Kalousek, I am not really happy about the National Budget Board. I would understand if the ODS were to reject it sharply, I would understand if it were to reject it sharply by the KSČM, because these are parties that are very reserved for various reasons for the accession of the Czech Republic to the fiscalcompact. But those parties who want to access the fiscal compact cannot know the 2011 Directive 85 of the European Union, which gives certain directives binding to the signatories of the fiscal compact as to what the financial constitution in their country is supposed to look like. And the National Budget Board is an institution that all signatories introduce into their legislation. Of course, it can be otherwise funded, it can be otherwise constituted. But if we want to approach the fiscal compact and we really mean that we will follow the directive, then we cannot say that we do not want the National Budget Council. That's just the way it is. And how to change it is a matter of second reading. The chairman of the budget committee was very suggestive and probably very loud about where the previous governments had done this with the state of public budgets. I do not consider it productive for us to begin now to explain who has been responsible for what since 1990, but I dare say where Nečasův' government has taken it - these figures can be verified from public sources - which has taken public budgets to almost six percent of the deficit. By 2013, it was able to reduce them safely below 3% to two and a half percent, and in 2013, for the first time in the history of this millennium, state debt fell nominally. These are simply verifiable figures from the Ministry of Finance of Minister Babiš. That's where we got in the consolidation of public budgets. Now the question is, how will you continue to consolidate the annual deficit reduction and the efforts to stabilise state debt? If I were to take seriously your statement that you say in the paper, I'd like to believe that you want to continue it. It's a question of how fast, and that's legitimate. Whether at a rate of one percent or half a percent a year is not so crucial if the trend of gradual reduction is maintained. But if I look at your government's programming statement, which the government will approve on Monday, or the coalition agreement's programming part, you will not continue the trend. You're gonna turn the trend around. Put a sign this big on the government's programming statement: the structural deficit in 2015 will be significantly higher than in 2014. [[gesticulates]] At least 3.5. I'll bet your shoes on that. And you will find that out very soon, ladies and gentlemen, because at the end of April this year, your government will have to discuss a convergence programme that, according to the European Semester, is already being sent ex ante, not ex post - before approving the basic parameters of the state budget. And in the convergence programme, because you can't lie - I don't suspect you, either, if you lie, the European Commission will find it easy - so in this convergence programme at the end of April you will learn how credible your statements about the investigation are. You will simply see with your own eyes in the documents of your own government as you want to increase the structural deficit of this state. This simply cannot happen if your convergence program reflects your government's programming statement. There's just no other way. The structural deficit will increase. This means that after a few years of hard consolidation of public budgets will not slow down the trend, but turn around. Turning the trend that gained us tremendous confidence in foreign markets, extremely cheap debt financing. And that's why. You can't convince me it's not. That's why you don't want it. Why don't you want a financial institution, why do you say the government has to present it? I am declaring here for the TOP 09 that I have no doubt about your negative opinion that this proposal will be rejected. I'm here to declare that if you're serious about this, and it's very unbelievable, and the government really wanted to present this, then it can count on a very constructive approach to the TOP 09. Yes, we will do our best to obtain the approval of the financial constitution put forward by the government, because we think that this is correct regardless of who makes it. The problem is, you don't want it. Unless it was called that and there was something completely different. But you don't want a real debt brake because you can't afford it given what you have written in the government's programming statement. You are going to start acting the other way in the trends in public budgets. That's the sad part. One final point. When the chairman of the Committee on Budgets spoke about how we behaved, he also said that we used up 180 billion budget reserves. That's a misconception, please. No 180 billion budget reserves, it was such a frequent subject of former Prime Minister Paroubek, it never was. We're talking accounting methodology, for which there wasn't a single crown of cash. That means no one used any reserves because there never were. I know very well, President Votava, through Mr President, that as a long-standing member of the Committee on Budgets, you know that we have only tried me in a sly way. But don't say it out loud, someone might believe it. It is indeed a statement that is able to compete for the nonsense of the year with another famous statement about the 350 billion that lies on the Czech National Bank's accounts and can be reduced by state debt. Let us not confuse the public with such statements completely untrue. [[20.00 hours]] Once again, it's two and a half years of work, our work together, and not dishonest work. It's the result of some consensus that we've come to for two and a half years, which doesn't mean we've made it to the end. We can release it into second reading and try to get it to the end so that we can all be happy with it. That's assuming you're serious. Or throw it away, throw away the two and a half years of work, and if you submit anything else, we can start over, and then we lose the two and a half years. We're not gonna get any further, and that's because you don't want it and you're only looking for substitute reasons so you can say how you want to save, but so you can spend a little more every year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u29	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr Jiří Zlatuška, a Member of Parliament, came forward with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kalousek has quite convinced me how awful this will be in April, when we submit a convergence programme, how he would have saved it by this constitutional law of his. However, no matter how much I count, the deadlines that are needed for adoption, it is my view that, if this law were to be negotiated successfully, there is no way that it can be managed to be effective by April anyway. If I add up the time limits, I will reach April roughly, as if Mr Kalousek had added up the expenses and exceeded his ceiling. It just doesn't work out and you could have forgiven this part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Miroslav Kalousek joined the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u32	I'm wondering if there was a malfunction on the transmitter or on the receiver. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Probably on the transmitter, sorry for the little pedagogical talent. Let's do it again. I did not think for a second that the negotiation of this constitutional law could, of course, prevent the structural deficit from increasing in the convergence programme for 2015. Nothing terrible is going to happen either. He's just going to increase the structural deficit. Unfortunately, this has happened several times in the history of this country, the sun has risen and bread has baked. From a trend point of view, a fundamental thing will happen. As the Czech Republic, we will send a report about ourselves that we are ending with an effort to consolidate public budgets and pave the way for ever greater and greater spending. Of course, even this fiscal constitution will not prevent this, even if it applies, because the nominal amount - not nominal, the relative amount of debt is still below 45, that is, even if you plan the deficit not 3.5 but 4, nothing terrible will happen even with regard to the constitutional law, even if it does now. I'm just trying to explain to you why you don't want it in the long run. Because, of course, in a few years, it would have been awful, and you're counting on it over the years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u33	I thank Mr Kalousek. Another party to the debate is Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't want to delay it. So I'm gonna talk softer so some people don't have to have cotton wool in their ears. Otherwise, I apologize for speaking strongly. Well, the former minister keeps accusing us of not wanting to be budgetaryly responsible. I want to refer him back to the coalition agreement where the commitment to budgetary responsibility is. I want to refer him to the declaration by the current coalition government that he wants to adopt a fiscal compact, and of course, other measures may also be taken on the basis of that fiscal compact. I want to ask the former Minister why he was not budgetaryly responsible in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010. Otherwise, the government bill on budgetary responsibility, if you don't remember me, didn't come to the House until sometime in October 2012. [[Objection from Mr Kalousek off the microphone.]] Not after a year. The Commission was in 2012, if I remember correctly. In that year, the law was submitted to the House and began to discuss it at first reading, again if I am not wrong, until sometime in February, maybe in March 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u35	I thank Mr Votav. Mr Miroslav Kalousek also joined the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u36	I don't want to stretch it out, please. Indeed, it is evident that the work started and could not start at any other time than in 2011. If you really want to work on this constitution so that the government can present it, then you will find that before discussion with representatives of individual political factions is possible, there must be a rather lengthy expert discussion with those local authorities, with those other ministries, in particular with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and with the Ministry of Health, because they guarantee two basic socio-economic systems, which make up basically half of the public spending that we approve here. There's really been two and a half years of work behind this. I'm not defending it because it's really obvious that you don't want it. However, what I'm saying is true. If you really want to do this and you want to do it, it's a shame two and a half years of work, but we're ready to go to the new draft that anyone will submit and try together with you to get the fiscal constitution approved, because there's this one - I'm gonna start yelling, otherwise I'm not gonna yell at them over Seďa and I'm gonna Zavadil at them - because that's where the contradiction between words and actions is. I know, of course, that you say that you want to be budgetaryly responsible and where you want to keep deficits and that you want to save and how you want to behave. But so far, all the steps you have taken, colleagues, are in direct conflict with these declarations. And today's vote on the financial constitution will be another such step. And your discussion of the 2015 budget if you want to fulfill the government's programming statement will be another such step. And this way, we keep going, going, going, going, going, and that's probably how future political representation is going to go, unless there's some kind of brake on them other than their own responsibility, for example, the financial constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u37	I thank Mr Kalousek. The rapporteur also made himself known to the debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u38	So, before I say the final resumé, I would like to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Laudát's colleague. The rapporteur didn't take his news report down the drain. The rapporteur simply did not want to delay the list of formal and factual shortcomings that this proposal has, because you certainly read prints 24/1, 25/1 and 33/1, where the government is critical of these proposals. Strangely enough, they are the same people who wrote it, and then I personally consulted them, who even built it on the government. I wonder where Mr Kalousek takes the assurance that the same people will do it again as they did in 2012. I think other people are going to do this, but what I know exactly is that they're going to do it in a different way and in a different way and especially with a good knowledge of the situation that really exists in the Ministry and in our economy. Once again, I emphasise that we do not defend budgetary responsibility, we want budgetary responsibility, we will behave like this whether it is on paper or not on paper. There are, of course, some indications and some demands from the European Union that we will clearly meet, but budgetary responsibility is important to us and the basis, whether it is written or not. So I would like to sum up in the debate and propose for all three prints - 24, 25 and 33 - rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u39	I'm so sorry. We are now discussing paragraphs 19, 20, 21. You described the press... Sorry... If anyone else doesn't report to the general debate... Please, one procedural proposal - Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u40	The procedural proposal may not be, but a comment. I respect the rapporteur's proposal. I know how this is gonna turn out. The next discussion would be just a circle. Nevertheless, I would like to propose that we vote on all three thousand at once because they are related and it would be very embarrassing if one were rejected and the other passed. Then I really don't know what we'd do about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-012-999.u41	We have here a procedural proposal that will be put to the vote without debate. So I'm opening the vote on the procedural motion so that all three of us... I'm sorry. I find this vote confusing. Vice-President Filip here tells me that such a vote is not possible. The only thing that would have to happen there, Mr. Speaker, is that you would have withdrawn the two remaining ones, which I don't expect. We are at the end of the debate. I'm asking if anyone's still reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. I ask whether the petitioner or the rapporteur wishes the final word. No, it doesn't. Thank you.
