ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /house print 255/ - second reading I would ask that instead of the rapporteur's desk, the Labour and Social Affairs Minister Michaela Marksová and the rapporteur of the Social Policy Committee Gabriela Pecková take their seats. Under the authority of the Government, Minister Marksová will state the bill. I beg you to take the floor. Before they do so, I will say that we have ordered the committee on social policy at first reading, and the committee resolution has been delivered to you as a House press 255/1. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, at the beginning of the second reading, I would just briefly remind you that this government bill deals primarily with the issue of childbirth, namely that it extends the birth rate to the second child, amounting to CZK 10,000, the second child being understood by the second live child, regardless of how many births this second live child is born. [[There's noise in the room.]] At the same time, it is important that the coefficient of living is increased from 2.4- to 2.7-fold the income, which means that the number of families who are entitled to the birthing allowance is extended. And at the same time, the birth certificate, the claim, is expanding -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm gonna ask you for a moment before the House calms down. Please, fellow Members and fellow Members, if you would like to bring any debates on another subject into the lobby and let the Minister speak in peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u4	Thank you. The claim is also extended by cases where the child within one year has been decided by the court on the adoption of the child or on the custody of the child prior to the adoption of the child. Otherwise, I would also like to note that the Social Policy Committee has adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies discuss the bill and approve it as amended by this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u5	Thank you, Minister. I will now ask Mrs Gabriela Pecková, the Committee's rapporteur, to bring the committee's resolution and committee's deliberations closer to us. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u6	Mr President, before I begin, I would just say that one of my predecessors' cards is inserted at the rapporteur's desk. I don't want to touch her, but it's someone's, so let him take it out. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So now I will allow myself to read the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy from the 9th meeting of 3 September 2014 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, House Press 255. Following the opening words of Petr Šimerka, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Ms Gabriela Pecková's intelligence report and after the debate, the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to the Government Bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, House Press 255, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'll check you all out. Please log in with the ID cards again so that we may not register the lost cards several times afterwards. So I am now opening up a general debate. President Tomio Okamura came forward with priority rights, and then we have one registered for the general debate in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that we welcome every support of the family in the Dawn movement and we will vote in favour of this proposal. The law, however, must be said to be a fundamental one. In this sense, we have prepared an amendment, which we will now put to the vote. Our republic is dying, and the government's proposal, which only gives birth to a second child, doesn't solve anything. It's just a slap in the water, because according to the analysis of the Institute of Sociology, the thing in the Czech Republic must be born more than two children per woman, namely 2.14 children, otherwise we will not stop the extinction of our Republic. Therefore, I repeat once again, this government proposal, if it is a proposal, and basically no other proposal to support families with children, we have not yet heard and frankly no government concept to support young families with children, so it is indeed a very weak coffee and we need to be frank about it. That is why we in Dawn want parents to receive birth certificates for third, fourth or any other child, but only on condition, and in this sense our amendment will be that they have a proper working history for at least five years and a clean criminal record, including university studies for these five years. We leave the maternity allowance for the first and second children as submitted by the government. With this amendment, we will achieve that we will motivate decent families who live properly to a greater number of children, at least a small gesture, and we will wait for the concept of government, and at the same time we will not give room to those families who do not live properly. By the way, as early as June, I called on the government to present a clear strategy to support families with children, but there is nothing on the table. Let me just remind you that when we were talking about social housing here, and we're going back to the next law on material distress, it was said that the government was not going to submit its proposal until 2016, which surprised me very unpleasantly. Yes, it was said by the secretary here. The aim of state policy must not be to support any family, regardless of whether it sounds incorrect. The state must support families with children in the interests of all citizens of this country, but families that benefit society, that is, where parents work properly and at the same time do not commit crime. This means those families who give hope that their children too will benefit our country. And in that sense, our amendment is. Due to the management of the previous governments of ČSSD, ODS, KDU-ČSL and others over the past twenty-five years, we have little money in the Treasury, and in the future there will be even less money in relation to the beneficiaries for social benefits and pensions. As I was saying, unfortunately, our nation is dying. First of all, the state should support every child born because the statistics are relentless. Not only are we dying, but we are also growing old as a society, so those who will continue to make money not only on pensions, but on the whole social system. And the solution is certainly not immigration, as I have heard from many mouths, and from politicians. Therefore, it is not logical to punish a properly working decent family for having a third, fourth or fifth child by not giving them birth benefits or other welfare benefits. I know that, in my opinion, the government is actually thinking differently. Our governments and our politicians secretly express what they deny out loud by not supporting more than two children. They fear abuse by socially weak, inadaptable families. They know that normal Čech have one or two children, so they will support the Čech with this measure, and they will bite the two, for example, with Rom people who, of course, have more children. Unfortunately, with the proverbial tub, thousands of innocent children from properly working families are being poured out as well. Let's be systemic and set the rules as society needs them. Let us support every child, every family, but only if the family gives hope for decent upbringing. Childbirth may be a bonus to those who work properly, who live decently, who properly raise their children. As I said at the outset, I am for a third and fourth child for any family, but only if parents are blameless and have a proven history of work. On the contrary, it is certainly not the aim of the state, and certainly not of the Dawn movement, to motivate those who do not work in the long term and do not have a clean criminal record. It's not fair just because some rude families usually have a lot of children, punishing even the decent ones who want to have a lot of children too. We need those kids and we want them. Childbirth must be motivational. It must be a signal from a state that says: "I am grateful for every child of hardworking and decent people, in the words of every child. It's not a gift, because by working and raising your children to work and decency, you're actually making a lot more money than I'm giving you here." That should be the state's thinking. It may sound cynical, but the cost of life the state can quantify, although individual known calculations differ. For example, the INFOHARM study calculated that the economic value of human life is 12 million in the Czech Republic. Crowns per head. In other words, we can also say that with every child that is not born, 12 miles. We're losing the crown. In fact, we are losing more because, for example, for the education and study of one child, parents spend one and more million crowns according to public surveys, which also brings income to budgets. In my opinion, a wise statesman should not hesitate to invest, massively, in a state of profitable commodities such as children from decent and working families without criminal history. If children learn to be beneficial citizens, then they bring enormous appreciation to the whole state, the whole society. I hope someone doesn't accuse me of populism again. Now I'm gonna talk like a businessman. Investing in decent citizens is not political propaganda. It is, dear friends and honourable government, an economic necessity. Likewise, absolute economic misunderstand is investment in the promotion of the birth rate of those who do not work for life or are dangerous to society. And I would also like to say B. The state, of course, must also be able to give its citizens work, I mean creating the conditions for creating jobs. The work around us is a shame, just look at the roads or our sights. And we have the money for it. After all, the whole Republic has thousands of its opencards and thousands of other tunnels. Money is, work is. And if we want to, there'll be kids. All you have to do is not be afraid and steal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u9	Thank you to Chairman Tomio Okamur. Before the debate continues, I note that Mr Radim Fiala has a replacement card number 6 and an apology has been received by the Minister for Regional Development Věra Jourová from this afternoon's meeting. I'm asking for peace again. We are continuing with Mrs Marta Semelová's factual remark. Ms. Jana Hnyková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the speeches that have just been made here. As a KSČM club, we would definitely support and we have always advocated that child benefits be on every child, so that the birth rate is on every child. At this point, however, the proposal is presented as it is presented. We think that every crown is good for parents, which is why we support it. On the other hand, I would also like to respond to what has been said here that this should be conditional on the fact that the person who is to receive this money must not be employed in the long term, and so on. Please, if we have hundreds of thousands of people without jobs in the Czech Republic, where there are queues for one job in some regions, this is objectively impossible to ensure. And often these people themselves are not to blame for not having a job. I don't think I can agree with that. As far as a clean criminal record is concerned, I think there are a number of bad guys who have a clean criminal record and a number of those who have slipped somewhere, but they certainly shouldn't be paying the kids for it, so I also consider this completely unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u11	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová, and I will once again ask all my colleagues - Mrs Hnyková is already going - but I will ask colleagues and colleagues to move the discussions that are not related to the subject into the foyer and the subject under discussion to have an atmosphere in which every speaker's word can be recorded. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a second reading of the Government Bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended by other regulations, House Press No. 255. I will take the liberty of following up on our President, Mr Tomio Okamura, and I believe I will give you another look. I believe that the birth rate will increase by the required amount and the entire Czech Republic, which is stuck with posters of Social Democrats, which say that the birth rate has increased, and above that the "approved" password will be true. I just think posters of this type are misleading. It is unfair to write on advertising posters what most Members support and come out of taxpayers' pockets, and only one political party will own it, but that is politics, which I have already recognised, and I will ask the Minister to take care of it to President Sobotka. Thank you. I'll go back to the explanatory report. The aim of this amendment is to support families with young children. What's next? The increase in the birth rate will cost the state budget about 480 million. But what will be the further support of these families? Having a child today is not at all easy and families with young children must really be very modest, and this is not just about socially weak families, but also about the common ones. I'll go back to the posters. I read: we provide enough places in kindergartens. So far, nothing's getting much higher. What else? What about the quality of the schools, the crews, the offer of interest clubs? It all costs money. If the child is gifted, the family will humble themselves to give him an education because it is the best investment for his life. And I'm asking where there's a strong support for families with children. Why isn't the concept of family support set here from birth to completion of education? Very often I hear from citizens now that increasing the birth rate is a cry into the dark, a good pre-election sheet that gentlemen and ladies from social democracy have taken marketing on excellent. I have read the coalition agreement - and once again the support of families on five lines. In addition to the maintenance and support of the midwife for the second child, this point is not addressed very much here. We should all make sure that families with children are more supportive, with strong support in the tax area, so that the well-lived family that lives together may decide on the financial amounts that remain in the family budget for the benefit of their child. But I warn you that this relief must be significant. It is necessary to look for other possibilities of support. I see it in a great variability of education. If we now have an attack on kindergarten schools, there will inevitably be an attack on entry into schools, school parties. It is essential that the system adapts more to individual flights and requirements so that children do not have to go home after school and we do not have to worry about our children. Why not support education more in extracurricular activities and interest clubs? It would be another source of jobs. And why not think more about rural schools where the availability of cultural, social and sporting activities is limited, because when going somewhere, it is more financially demanding than for children living in cities and having everything within reach. Paying more attention to children's education, leading to sport and at the same time to responsible preparation for their future occupation, evenly balancing the preparation for future occupations, all this is important in the concept to take into account. As far as mothers are concerned, it is not easy on the labour market. If a family wants to have a baby, it's just a problem. How many benefits are given to mothers? There is not enough supply of short-term jobs. If the child is sick, it's wrong, the employer is furious. On a short-term basis, mothers and fathers must sometimes do as much work as they normally do one full-time. Of course, it mixes into the lives of families, raising children, their hasty lives, with the consequences that lead to the breakdown of these families. And you all know it. Finally, I would like to say that the increase in birth rates is certainly an asset to young families, and we will support this at third reading during the Dawn movement, as has already been said. But it is necessary to think and prepare comprehensive measures so that the family is the most important part of our society, so that having a child is not a luxury, and to create a better start in life not only for the starting families, but for families with children to help. And that's up to all of us. We do not renounce responsibility for the Úsvit movement for the creation of such a social concept of support for families with children, which will prevail despite this parliamentary term. Thank you, fellow Members, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u13	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Mr Adolf Beznoska is also in the debate. Again, I ask colleagues, including his party colleagues, to let him, I would say, make his contribution in peace to the general debate at second reading. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, very briefly. Government proposal amending Law No 117/1995 Coll., Civil Democratic Party supports. The range of families to which support belongs is expanded because it increases multiples from 2.4 to 2.7 for your information in money expressed this, the decisive income increases from CZK 18,504 to CZK 20,817, that is the amount we are talking about. The citizens' Democratic Party has one of the pillars of "the solidarity of the responsible," so in this case we are very happy to sign up for it. I don't want to talk about whether this is all conceptual or not, but this proposal has our support. I've been looking for Europe. Some countries pay aid of this type, some of which do not. For example Austria, Germany, the Netherlands does not pay, the Švýcar have it after cantons, the Fin, the Španěl, the Řek in certain variations also pay these contributions. The Czech Republic is one of the countries that cares about this, wants to help. In fact, historically, this contribution was designed as an incentive for the acquisition of equipment for the newborn. In that spirit, I think that's right, and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u15	Thank you, Mr. Beznosk. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. It's not like that. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word - Madam Secretary? It's not like that. The rapporteur, the final word? He's not interested. We will therefore continue with the debate in detail. I see Mr. Tomio Okamura's application. I don't have a written application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to the amendment under the number of House document 1351 and would just like to read the key phrase to Article 1 (6) of Section 44. At the end of paragraph 1, the following sentence shall be added: The entitlement to a third- and another child has a woman who is blameless and who has been pension-insured on the basis of a gainful activity or who has been constantly engaged in university studies for at least five years. I have found that under university studies means higher vocational school and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-17-ps2013-017-02-004-013.u17	Thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking again for the final word. Madam Secretary? The rapporteur? It's not like that. Because we've exhausted what's subject to second reading, I'm ending second reading of point 13 of print 255. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister. Let's continue with item 19. Madam Secretary was right to stay at the rapporteur's desk. I will ask Mr Radim Holeček to take his place at the rapporteur's table, because item 19 is
