ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u1	91. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on improving compliance with tax regulations on an international scale and taking into account the laws of the United States of America on information and their notification generally known as Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, signed in Prague on 4 August 2014 /German press 311/ - first reading I ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance to present this press and the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Pavel Šrámek, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement presented responds to the adoption of the American Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, so-called. FATCA. The US law of FATCA requires foreign financial institutions to report information on their accounts to US tax residents. An amount of 30 per cent of each resource payment in the United States of America will be deducted from non-grouping foreign financial institutions that will not meet these requirements. The concept of payment is widely defined in the US law FATCA. Includes e.g. interest, dividends, wages, payouts, rents, income from the sale of assets that can generate interest, etc. The agreement is an alternative to the external effect of the US FATCA Act and its primary purpose is to mitigate its impact on financial institutions in the Czech Republic. In a broader context, the agreement is concluded in the context of intensifying the fight against tax evasion by the international community. Similar agreements are concluded with the United States of America by other States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of the European Union. Following the model of these agreements, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has established a common standard for automatic exchange of information, which similarly seeks to project the European Union into its right. Based on the agreement, the tax administration of the Czech Republic and the United States of America will automatically exchange data on financial accounts held by their financial institutions to tax residents of the other Contracting Party each year. To this end, the Czech financial institutions must, on the basis of an agreement, examine each existing or possibly existing due diligence procedure according to the established due diligence procedures. a new account opened. [[9.20 hours]] The main contribution of the agreement is that it is a unified solution for financial institutions throughout the Czech Republic, which will reduce their administrative costs. Movement of the effectiveness of the provisions of the US FATCA Act on withholding tax in relation to Czech financial institutions. Czech financial institutions will not be forced to tax non-cooperating account holders or cancel their account. Data collected on tax residents' accounts held in the United States of America. Negotiating other unnotified products against the US model contract and still open possibility to negotiate other non-notified institutions or products in case of changes in Czech sectoral legislation. The first transmission of information should take place in September 2015 in the event of ratification of the agreement. The Agreement will enter into force on the date of notification to the United States of America that the Czech Republic has completed its necessary national procedures for the entry into force of the Agreement. In order to implement it, it will be necessary to adopt an implementing law, which must in particular establish the obligation and authorisation of financial institutions to collect and report information to the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic. In terms of the legal order of the Czech Republic, the agreement has the character of the so-called presidential treaty. After its ratification by the President of the Republic, the agreement will become part of the Czech rule of law and will take precedence over the law if the law conflicts with it. The agreement will be completely in line with constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic at the moment of adoption of the implementing law. The draft law was approved by the Government on 15 September 2014. It is in line with the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, the commitments taken over under other applicable treaties and the generally binding principles of international law. The amount of the impact on the state budget depends mainly on the amount of initial costs necessary for the introduction of an information exchange system with the United States of America. The General Financial Directorate, which will implement the negotiated agreement on the part of the Czech Republic, estimates the initial cost of 25 million. Kč. Currently, the Czech Republic is included by the United States of America in the list of States which have signed the Agreement, and thanks to this fact the withholding tax will not be applied to Czech financial institutions until 31 December 2014. The stay of the Czech Republic on this list is, of course, conditional on timely ratification of the agreement. If the agreement is not ratified, the following risks are at risk. Any payment from a source from the United States of America will be withheld by 30 per cent of the amount and only 70 per cent will be transferred to the Czech financial institution. Direct impact at least a billion a year. The Czech Republic will issue a political signal that it is no longer interested in being part of a group of states that intend to fight tax evasion. Increased costs for individual Czech financial institutions due to a non-unified approach and not fulfilling the expectations of negotiating an agreement. Viewing Czech financial institutions as problematic within multinational financial groups. Leaving clients from Czech financial institutions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the above arguments, I would like to ask you to agree to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Please the rapporteur, who is Mr Pavel Šrámek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this press be ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u5	Yes, thank you for a very brief news report. I am opening a general debate. The chairman of the TOP 09 Club is Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was carrying this disgraceful burden when I was the first finance minister to bring information about this agreement and the request to ratify it. I think the House deserves to hear what's going on here very openly. It is a completely unilateral act by the United States to which they have notified the Member States of the European Union that they will simply demand unilaterally information from their financial authorities without providing reciprocally the same, and who will not cooperate will be taxed by 30%. Period. The European countries have dealt with this unilateral dictation by discussing whether each country will deal with this separately, or whether they will agree together and it will be a joint agreement between the European Union and the United States, where - so that the humiliation is not so great - it will seek to obtain the reciprocity which, of course, is not yet agreed, and it is only up to the United States if it agrees. It's exactly the moment when there's nothing we can do about it, to accept that someone just did a one-sided act and is stronger. So I suggest we don't vet § 90. I recommend that we approve and ratify this agreement because otherwise we will significantly damage the entities of the Czech financial sector, but I think it deserves to say that this is really not fair. The only thing I would like to ask the Minister - I stress that I would put the same request in his place: Why are you putting it here so late? This thing is very old, why does it have to be approved under Section 90? I repeat, yes, we are prepared to approve this under Section 90, but I do not understand why it was sitting with you for three quarters of a year, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u7	Yes, I'm just pointing out that, according to Section 90, we only approve the following point. This is a contract that runs in standard mode. I'll ask who else is reporting for the debate. Once again, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u8	That was a really good one. Please accept my apology. My point is, but to the next point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u9	Thank you. I'll ask who else is reporting for the debate. Mr. Mr. Holeček. Mr. Ambassador, is this a proper application or a factual one? Really. Okay, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u10	Hello, I'll be very short. Mr. Babiš said that the treaty would be superior to our legal order. I would just like to ask, in the submission there is that the obligation to process, collect and notify the required data must be imposed on financial institutions by law, so that when collecting information, they do not conflict with Act 101 on the protection of personal data. Whether this is being treated or if at that point we're breaking Act 101 on Data Protection. I'd see a great deal of abuse there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-22-ps2013-019-02-002-091.u11	Thank you. There is no one else to report to the debate, so I am ending it. I will ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wishes the final word. No one wants final words. In that case, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to the Foreign Committee. The rapporteur also recommended it. I'll ask if there's another proposal. It's not like that. We will take the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that this press be directed to the Foreign Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting order number 31, registered is 172, for 156, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have ordered this press to the Foreign Committee, and I am ending its first reading. We are now approaching the law already mentioned, i.e. the point
