ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u1	1. Request for consent Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda At the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 19 December 2013, by resolution number 75, we suspended the discussion of this item and adjourned it until the time of discussion by the mandate and immune committee. The mandate and immunity committee discussed the request for consent and we received its resolution number 32 of 23 January 2014. I ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Stanislav Polčák to report to us on the discussion of the request of the Organized Crime Detection Unit of the Police of the Czech Republic for consent to the criminal prosecution of the Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. At the same time, I would like to thank those colleagues from all the Members' clubs who have tried to prevent this situation, and I apologise for the situation that has arisen. First of all, I would like to say that the mandate and immune committee addressed this issue at its three meetings. After hearing like Mr. docent. Svoboda, as well as other representatives of the police authorities conducting the investigation, has adopted a resolution following certain peripeties that has been delivered to you on the bench and which is - and given that the identity of the conduct, the act, must be respected, so that the hearing which is blamed by the lecturer should be read here, so it is one and a half pages or two, so I must read it to you. The mandate and immunity committee, after the opening words of the committee chair of Mrs Miroslava Němcová, the report by Mr Jeroným Tejc and Mr Stanislav Polčák, and after the debate: First, it proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to comply with the provisions of Section 12 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, decided on the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies as follows: The Chamber of Deputies referred to in Article 27 (2) shall: 4 of Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, and Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, agrees with the criminal prosecution of Mr. Bohuslav Svoboda, CSc, born 28. 2. 1944, on suspicion of committing a crime of infringement of competition rules pursuant to § 248 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) (a) Law No 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, in a single-action relationship with the crime of infringement in the management of foreign property pursuant to § 220 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 of Law No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, committed in the form of accompliceship, pursuant to the provisions of Section 23 of Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code. From the top of those crimes, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda was to commit, together with other accused persons, that he intended to violate the obligation imposed on them under the law or the contractual obligation imposed on them to cherish or manage foreign property and to violate the Public Procurement Act and to unduly enrich HAGUESS, acting as follows: 5 days. 3. 2012 by decision of the contracting authority, Magistrate hl. m. Prague, members of the Special Commission have been appointed as an evaluation committee in a negotiated procedure without publication called Providing basic and extended support for software Service Card Centre. The subject of the public contract was services in the area of basic software support here in this service card centre. The estimated value of the contract should have been contrary to the provisions of § 13 para. 2 The Public Procurement Act is set at 24 million. CZK, for a period of two years, although members of the special committee were aware that the same services were provided by HAGUESS, a. s., for the capital city of Prague at the time of 6. 11. 2006 to 30. 9. 2011 for an amount of 18 million. 366 thousand. 219 Kč without VAT. 6 days. 3. 2012 was sent a call for negotiations in the negotiated procedure without publication within the meaning of Section 34 of the Public Procurement Act only to HAGUESS, which members of the evaluation committee in the tender documents should have justified by a special reference to the provisions of Section 23 para. 4 letter of the Public Procurement Act and knowingly false arguments that the proper service support of the IS SKC created by HAGUESS is also necessary for the proper operation of the Prague Card Service Centre, which was allegedly the only entity that is, in view of the valid licensing arrangement between it and the contracting authority, authorized to intervene in that software. At the same time, they should at least have been informed that an amendment to the said licence agreement was adopted in 2010 which significantly released the licence terms and allowed the hl. m. Prague to provide sub-license for the use of the Service Card Centre software to third parties, to the extent necessary for the quality operation of this centre, as well as the licensing agreement including its amendments in 2008. 23 days. 3. 2012 the Councillor responsible for the Informatics Department submitted to the Council hl. m. Prague print R-6527, including its annexes, processed by members of the evaluation committee, in which they unanimously recommended accepting the offer of HAGUESS at the price offered. On the basis of that opinion, the Council decided hl. m. Prague by unanimous resolution of 03. 04. 2012 No 373, which took note of the information on the public contract Providing basic and extended support for the software of the Service Card Centre, entered into a negotiated procedure without publication within the meaning of Article 23 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) the Law on Public Procurement, followed by this resolution, the Council decided on the selection of the tender submitted by HAGUESS of 21. 03. 2012 and the resolution in question also approved the text "Treaties for providing basic support for software" for a period of two years with the price of the item of performance of CZK 57 244 536,- without VAT, and "Treaties for providing extended support for software" for a period of two years with the price of the item of performance of CZK 16 519 211,- excluding VAT, i.e. for a total amount of CZK 73 763 747,- excluding VAT. In this way, the members of the Council of the hl. m. Prague should have decided, although they knew that the price offered exceeded the planned value of the public contract and that an expert or opposing opinion had not been drawn up, although this was to be done in accordance with the Council resolution of 6. 12. 2011 No. 1964. As is based on an expert opinion prepared by the Risk Analysis Consultants Institute, s. r. o., it was not necessary to proceed through the procedure without publication, because the concluded licensing agreements do not prohibit third party granting aid unless such aid interferes with the author's work. 6 days. 4. 2012 Director of Informatics Department of the Magistrate hl. m. Prague and contracting authority according to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the Act on Public Procurement following the above-mentioned decision of Resolution No. 373 on behalf of the hl. m. Prague signed the Agreement on providing basic support for software for a period of two years with a price for the item of performance of CZK 57 244 536,- without VAT and "Treaty on providing extended support for software" for a period of two years with a price for the item of performance of CZK 16 519 211,- without VAT. [[19.10 hours]] On the basis of those unfavourable contracts concluded as a result of the conduct of the accused with HAGUESS, a. s., sehl. m. Prague undertook to pay a total of CZK 73 763 747,- for the services provided in the course of two years, a contract providing basic support for software" for a period of two years, with a price of CZK 57 244 536,- and a contract providing extended support for software for a period of two years, with a cost of CZK 16 519 211,- although the price usual determined by expert judgement of individual activities specified in the "Treaty of providing basic support for software" for 24 months is CZK 36 516 672,- without VAT. Given the fact that hl. m. Prague is not a VAT payer, it represents the damage caused at least CZK 24 873 384,- including VAT, the difference in amounts including VAT, i.e. the difference between the subject matter of the basic aid contract and the price normally determined by an expert opinion, provided that these contracts are fulfilled in full contractual terms. On 31 January 2013, HAGUESS was actually paid at least CZK 28 805 344,-. By doing so, the accused docent. MUDr. Bohuslav Svoboda, CSc, and co-incriminations should not have allowed the participation of other potential suppliers to distort the competitive environment, HAGUESS, a. s., to obtain unjustified advantages and contracting authorities hl. m. Prague thus causes economically disadvantageous contract damage of large scale. Secondly, Němcová instructs the President to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. So the final resolution and the deed that is put to Mr docent has been read. Svoboda of guilt, and this should therefore be decided by the House following the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u3	I ask the rapporteur to take the position at the rapporteur's table and follow with me the general debate that I am opening with this. Mr Jeroným Tejc has entered into this debate with a proper application, but first I have Mr Blažek's factual comment, but he is not present, so I will ask Mr Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, Mr Government, I did not want to take advantage of the role of the second rapporteur in this press, which is why I took the liberty of signing up until the general debate to interpret my position here. I take note of my personal view as a person who had the opportunity to get to know this whole thing quite closely at the meeting of the mandate and immune committee. I don't think there'll be anyone in this room who suspects me with regard to my earlier statements and behavior over the past seven years from being any closer to the ODS or keeping it. However, I would like to make a public speech today on the request for the extradition of Mr Svoboda, because for the first time in the entire time that I am a Member in the Chamber of Deputies, I will not vote in favour of expressing my consent to prosecution, and I think that when there is a first time, there is also a need to state why I will do so. The first reason is that there has been a fundamental change in the Constitution. If we decide today to give Mr Svoboda to prosecute, he will be prosecuted, eventually decide whether he is guilty or not. And if we decide not to be prosecuted, the moment the prosecution with the other accused is completed, it will not begin to be prosecuted because they will be freed if they were convicted, then Mr. Svoboda will be prosecuted after the end of the mandate, like any other, the proceedings will be completed. That means, if it turns out that he's guilty, like the others who are being charged today, he's not going to escape either prosecution or punishment. So this decision does not change the fact that if this thing turns out to be criminal for members of the Council of the City of Prague, then it will be prosecuted regardless of our decision today by Mr. The second reason is that we have often been here in the House, and I have been among those who have tried to break into the secrets of the mandate and immunity committee for one time as chairman, but we have often approached things very formally. We said there's a request, there's no reason for us to judge anything, we're not a court, let's put this thing on the table, let independent courts decide it. In the case of David Rath around him, when he spoke to us, there were police officers who were armed standing in this hall, and at that time we were told that everything was right and there could definitely be no violation of the law by law enforcement authorities. If you look at the recent decision of the Constitutional Court, you will see that, on this issue, the Constitutional Court has also declared infringement of Mr David Rath's fundamental rights as a Member of Parliament. The third reason why I will not vote in favour of Mr Svoboda's extradition today is because he is to be prosecuted for deliberate crime. I would perhaps even understand if Mr Svoboda had been prosecuted for negligence because he had not read all the materials he had signed, but I cannot imagine voting in favour of a Member's extradition on this matter, which was intended to commit a deliberate crime, as the police claim. At the same time, I would not want to defy the work of the police, namely the Organized Crime Detection Unit, in any way. I think it's a good thing and I appreciate that he's investigating the Opencard case and that he's also dealing with this particular thing. My personal legal opinion is that a crime has been committed on this matter, which is being investigated, that in my opinion there has been manipulation of the selection procedure and that damage has been caused. However, I believe that this damage is not the responsibility of the mayor, who was based on the opinions given in this matter, which was based on legal analyses based on the claims of his subordinates that everything is in accordance with the law, and that in my view it is not right for the mayor to bear responsibility at a time when, according to all legal and other welfare, it was recommended that he sign the material, because it is in accordance with the law. It is difficult to expect anyone to be able to assess both in the position of mayor of an arrangement as complex as a licence agreement and whether this licence agreement allows or does not allow a specific contracting authority to draw up a tender or to take a procedure without publication. It would perhaps be possible to demand the mayor of the capital city of Prague and other mayors and mayors - however, at a moment when those who stood by its birth, who stood at its setting, and who today, as I have noted, are not charged as politicians. And that's where I see some contradiction. Those who may have handled the case incorrectly, and based on the Magistrate's reports, are to be charged today. Those who caused the case stood by her birth, supported her the whole time, not accused. This is one of the other reasons why I will be staying here today, if necessary, when we vote, when we vote on the consent to prosecute. Please berte this only as my personal opinion on this matter, which I have made as one of the rapporteurs to this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u5	I thank Mr Tejc and the rapporteur, Mr Stanislav Polčák, came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I, of course, did not want to take advantage of my role as rapporteur in the opening report, so I will allow myself to present my legal opinions in this next speech, already within the framework of an open debate. Firstly - this has already been said, of course, by Mr Tejc - a change in the Constitution has taken place and this must be realised in this first vote, because I, to a certain extent, have to distinguish it from the vote that was voted on by our fellow Member Mr Schwarz on a matter that began long before he even expressed any political ambitions; At least what I noticed at the time his cause was launched, there was no doubt that he did not have these ambitions. [[19.20 hours]] Mr. Docent Svoboda was and is, of course, still a political figure of a significant character and was, at that time, the Mayor of Prague, expressing publicly that he would like to run at various levels, both internally within the ODS structure and, of course, within the elected, within the citizens. It must be said that at least the case of Mr Schwarz differs with the one before us now. And how this House behaves in this particular matter sets to some extent the rules for using, respectively. the use of the Institute of Immunity after the amendment of the Constitution. It must be said that immunity should not be a privilege for an individual, but it should be an institute that protects the legislature and the body against sometimes purposeful, sometimes to some extent confused provocations that may come out of various means. And the task of the mandate and immunity committee, and, of course, of the House, is to recognize whether such reasons for denying consent to the criminal prosecution of the Member at the moment are or are not given. I must say that not only the vote in the mandate and immune committee was very close, but also the case may be difficult to some extent, but basically simple. Mr. docent Svoboda voted in accordance with both internal legal opinions and assessments on the table and external legal opinions, which all supported not the proposed procedure but the procedure proposed by another responsible councilman. He had no indication that the procedure was illegal, incorrect, and the task of the House and the delegation and immunity committee was to examine whether at least the gross features of the legal features of the offence correspond to those stated by the police in their extradition request, namely whether these gross features at least correspond to what was required by the law, i.e. the criminal law. It must be said that, of course, the prosecution is an ultima ratio, the highest possible form of intervention by the state into individual freedom. Even paying taxes is not such an intervention as for example. criminal prosecution and, where appropriate, punishment. One of the basic features of the prosecution is the question of guilt. That means, I don't want to distinguish those categories, that's more for lawyers, but if the accused had at least some real opportunity to know that any procedure he might apply is or is not contrary to the law. And I must say that after careful study of both the file and other materials, I concluded that this is not the case. And, like my colleague Tejc, I have to doubt, to some extent, whether the qualifications of the deliberate crime presented to us by the police are not sufficiently relied upon by the particular factual circumstances of which the culpability in the form of intent would result. I know that, of course, legal qualifications can change in the context of even a court hearing. However, it cannot be agreed that the element of guilt should fall to the minimum, where it will no longer be covered by this possibility at all to be aware of the unlawfulness of such conduct. And I have to say that I say that Professor Svoboda just didn't have on his desk at the moment - and it doesn't really come from any material that I had the opportunity to read that he would have any indication on his desk that this act, which would then be a sign of his hand, could be unlawful. Any councilman, any representative throughout the Czech Republic can get into this situation. Any of those who will be elected, of course, in the autumn, or where they are already carrying out this mandate today. With the exception of us, Members and Senators, because only Members and Senators, 281 people who vote in this legislature, are excluded from the Constitution without any further vote. That means we can decide billions of things here, cause many billions of damage, but we are not concerned about this. But all the deputies, councillors, who are to rely on the positions of the officials responsible, are to bear this criminal responsibility. And now we need to think about what the sovereignty of Parliament is in the immunity that is now regulated in the Constitution. I, of course, respect the various electoral programmes of all parties that have come to the House, but on the other hand, I ask whether it is possible to resign to whether the Institute of Immunity does not apply at all, even though it is described in the Constitution and even though we have made a parliamentary pledge on the same Constitution. Personally, I am convinced that the prosecution of other defendants is likely to continue. I understand the police's motion to press charges will be made, and the matter will be resolved. But it's not that there's another new witness here who can uncover that probably Mr. docent. Freedom knew something. We didn't find anything like that in the file, at least not me. Nothing else can be said to approach the question of guilt. At that point, it is clear that this is just a matter of legal opinion. That legal opinion will largely be resolved at court level by a decision on the other defendants. Then, in the absence of the extradition of Mr. Docent Svoboda, this matter will be resolved and he will, of course, be able to fully exercise his rights both the accused and the defendant in the course of criminal proceedings. In this way, I want to distinguish that this matter is really based on a rather special legal opinion, which is intended to interpret the provisions of both the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code. I want to say that, of course, I can only talk about what has been published and not what is the subject of the mandate and immune committee. But certain circumstances have been made public that need to be pointed out. I do not want to go into detail, however, the legal opinion that the capital of Prague could not sign this type of contract in a negotiated procedure without publication under the Public Procurement Act, the legal opinion was communicated by the Office for the Protection of Competition the day after the decision by the Board. This is a very important circumstance. This, in itself, may well suggest who was aware of whether he might have committed an illegal act. That's the first point. Two. The legal opinion itself is controversial and is subject to review now, today, before the proceedings of the Regional Court in Brno. It is not today, but this legal opinion is currently being reviewed, this office, before the court. In other similar legal matters there are traceable judicatures, I have prepared them, I will not quote them anymore, where the Supreme Administrative Court has acknowledged that the situations which, although provoked by the actions of the city or the municipality, cannot be resolved otherwise, so allow to use the negotiated procedure without publication. And last but not least, and that's just one sentence, and I would like to quote here, is the Supreme Court's verdict on the file tag, if anyone wanted to find it, 5CDO848/2010, where it's said in this Supreme Court judicature: [[19.30 hours]] "If lay persons rely on legal advice provided by lawyers or other persons, of course, as if they knew the rights, without there being any other specific circumstances from which the incorrectness of such advice could be considered, they cannot normally be culpable." This is the Supreme Court's judgment, which therefore goes completely contrary to what is presented here by law enforcement authorities. Finally, I just want to say - perhaps in the form of a question: Who will want to carry out the mandate of representatives and councillors in such a legal situation? Members and senators are not involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u7	I thank the rapporteur, and before I give the floor to the next three duly applied for, I have here a factual comment by Mr Martin Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a similar opinion, albeit perhaps led by common sense and not by a deep legal education like Mr. Polčák and Mr. Tejc. But from what Mr. Polčák said, in terms of logic, I'm suggesting the opposite. Mr. Polčák said that for reasons that may be dubious, common sense may not take them, any councilman or representative may be prosecuted. I'd even say any citizen. I do not think that the case of colleague Schwarz, whom I very much appreciate for asking for the extradition himself, is so different. It just doesn't seem reasonable either - it doesn't seem to be, I don't know if an independent court has to decide. But from the fact that it can happen to everyone, on the contrary, I conclude that we are not to stand above the others and we are to submit to the machine if we want to call it that. And our job is to create conditions that don't happen to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u9	I thank Mr Komárek and Mr Radek Vondráček, who is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u10	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members of the Council, fellow Members of the Council. I will try to be as brief as possible with regard to the course of today's fruitful, productive afternoon and evening and try to simplify it. I hope it's not at the expense of the cause. I consider it appropriate for me to be as public as a colleague. Tejc expressed his opinion on this matter. As a member of the mandate and immunity committee, I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the written documents, and I had the opportunity to hear the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Svoboda, and the representatives of the law enforcement authorities. Indeed, I can say here that I, too, have found a number of non-standard steps in the police's progress on this matter. I found the flaws factual, I found the shortcomings formal. Like the rapporteur, I am wondering how Professor Svoboda was to find out that something unfair was going on. Apparently, he was supposed to do so in some sixth sense, because you won't find a single document in the file, which would only indicate that he had relevant information that he was stealing. On the other hand, it is clear that a crime has actually been committed there most likely to occur, to the extent not very small, in the order of tens of millions. That's not why we're here. We are not here to replace the activities of law enforcement agencies by deciding whether to publish or not. If we have confidence in independent justice, if we have confidence in the police here, working, uncorrupted police, then let the colleague clear himself in criminal proceedings, let the arguments that have been raised give a lecture to his defense attorney, including that of the judicature with which I fully agree. In a brief way, when I look into the past in a brief way - immunity is a certain privilege of the legislature. It is an institute that was supposed to protect the legislature from the will of executive power in the past. We must ask ourselves whether or not the prosecution of one of us who is part of the legislature is an attack on this institution. And once again, it has been said here today, after the amendment to the Constitution, we may be creating rules that we will follow in the future. I am of the opinion that the prosecution of Mr Svoboda had nothing to do with the performance of his mandate, it was launched before he was somehow placed on a candidate for the relevant party. Although this was a very important policy, it was a municipal policy. This was not about Members. And with this optics, we have to judge the matter. Immunity as a privilege, of course, in an environment developed by democracy and at the moment when individual pillars of legislative and executive power are balanced, is always reduced in all developed countries. We are also witnessing this in our country, where there has already been a significant reduction in the procedural immunity for the four years. However, too broad immunity is negatively perceived by citizens, it is still a social issue, and we need to adopt a clear position here on how we will deal with it in the future. I would therefore intercede for time considerations to be crucial. If the prosecution interferes with the work of the Member elected, perhaps we are discussing a person who is already on the list, then I am in favour of carefully considering whether this is not an attack of executive power on legislative power. In this particular case, I think that is not the case. I would add such an ancillary criterion in this particular case that, as has been shown from the previous contributions, it is the prosecution of more people. And we, if we don't give Mr. Docent Svoboda, will only delay what happens in four years. While the others will be able to put forward arguments, they can defend themselves, they can file complaints, appeals, summons, and they can obtain acquittal. By not giving him up to participate in this major process, we may put him at risk of having to repeat some of the evidence in the future, so we can also do him a bear service. I, for my part, say for a person that I am not convinced of the fault of the Member, believe that the charge will result in the fact that, taking into account the content of the file and the existing caselaw, the prosecution will be dismissed and this fight will not affect the performance of his mandate. He's already brought the fight with him, and he must have been very aware of it when he ran for this institution. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. With the factual remark of the rapporteur, Mr Polčák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u12	Thank you. I'm sure it'll be less than two minutes. I merely want to note in the account what Mr Vondráček said here, whose performance I therefore acknowledge, a contradiction which has to do with the fact that it is precisely the accusation which the colleague, of course, mentioned here, was communicated to Mr Vondráček on 26 March 2013, when already in autumn 2012 Mr Docent Svoboda - and this is publicly traceable - said that he would like to run for the Chamber of Deputies. This means that the tests that you have set out for how to proceed here in the case of such a vote, so I am really interested now in how you, through Mr President, will vote at the next moment. At the same time, I would like to apologize to my colleague Schwarz, who pointed out to me that he, too, was a regional representative at the time of the initiation of his prosecution, which means that he was a politician, say, in a higher position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u13	Thank you for the point of fact and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda has now signed up with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy for anyone to stand here in this situation. It is not particularly easy for me, which I went into politics precisely to make all the vices that are in that policy disappear. [[19.40 hours]] It is difficult for me because at the moment I took action in the Transport Company in other areas of economic interest, I received a warning: If you do this, we will find something on you. I received that warning repeatedly, especially at the moment when the sums were mentioned as leaving the Transport Company from each ticket. That's the Opencard issue. That's a very strange feeling when someone can use what you've been fighting against all your life today. That's why I also say that I understand that I will be published. I agree, I have no problem with that. What is one more very strange thing - you have heard here the report that the rapporteur has read about what the prosecution sounds like. For me it is simply unacceptable, incomprehensible that I can be accused as a person in a criminal conspiracy, because we are - we would be eleven, one missing, so ten, and that it can be written that I acted with intent. There is a record of that meeting and there is a record of sound. On that sound record, I ask - and the questions fall from the other councilmen - all the things that are put here as a false decision. All these questions are answered by lawyers, by external experts, by saying: The only possible way for this solution is this. The situation was that the decision that Opencard would continue - and I say again, it is not a project that I or would create a council and a council under my leadership, it is a project that we inherited with a problem that should be solved and is not solved until today. And we were in a situation where the project cost 850 million, and if we hadn't decided on its continuation, the 850 million, depending on how we got the information, would have ended and the next day paper tickets would have started to be issued. Our decision was based on all the expertise. It was based on the opinions of experts who were from our point of view, and they are still, indisputable. Our decision was also based on the fact that we put a clause into this decision that the contract, its extension, was concluded for a period of one year and that during the year the council and the council would try to find a solution that would allow the Opencard project, i.e. an electronic card project, to change, to find another issuer for it and to find another economic solution. Just marginally -- those who write reviews for investigators don't have clearance for the expert opinion they're doing, and they're based on numbers that are data from another small town, how much such an Opencard costs. At the time it was first paid, the owners of Opencard were in the order of about 150,000, today there are a million of them. Of course, this changes the price of services provided. And it's impossible to compare pears to apples. I really can't. I repeat, for my person and for all the councillors, I feel completely insanely accused. It's really something I see as a political charge, because the case is always escalating at the moment I say I'm going to run or when I make a decision. At that point, I'm gonna get a heads-up that it's finally gonna be on the agenda for the day so I can think about what I'm doing. It re-emerged when I was elected to the Chamber of Deputies and I expressed my idea of how policy should evolve and how I would like to defend it in the Chamber of Deputies. This is a matter which concerns all Members, not just me. It's in a horrible way for all the local representatives, and there's a whole series of people here who know what I'm talking about. I repeat once again: you have a problem to solve. You take all the expertise, you have lawyers, you have a union, you have a professional union that deals with it, and they all call you one and the same voice: this is the only possible solution. I'm asking how you'd vote. Would you raise your hand for the fact that the solution is wrong and that we can throw out 850 million? It doesn't change what I'm saying that I'm prepared to defend myself in any court, because if the court ruled that I deliberately, with the intention of obtaining some advantage for myself or for someone in this way, then I would think that in the country there are no legal conditions in which anything can be done, and I would consider very much whether in such a country it makes sense to try to do what I have done and promoted in my entire political career. I've been through this, I've said it once or twice, I've been through threats, physical assault, explosives sent in a mail shipment - I've endured and survived everything. But if I and the councilmen who voted with me in favour were to be charged with what? - convicted of a deliberate felony in conspiracy, then, don't be mad at me, that would end the legal environment in this country for me. It's all up to you how you decide. I say again, I'm ready! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u15	I thank Mr Svoboda. Mr Radek Vondráček, a Member, came forward with a factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, there was a rhetorical question about how I will vote - that was interesting. It's true that I had it ready in my post, but in small print at the end of the paper, and in the heat, I forgot to say it here. My opinion is consistent in this matter. I will vote in favour, for one simple reason - in fact, Mr Svoboda has already answered - that this prosecution is somewhat in response to the fact that he was beginning to interfere with the situation on the Transport Company when he wanted to change something there. It already follows that this really has nothing to do with the exercise of the mandate of a Member. It is a matter that was happening in the capital city of Prague and it is a municipal matter. I think this country needs a decision from an independent court that Mr. Svoboda is innocent, that he is acquitted of charges. It takes a lot more than our decision not to be prosecuted. The Chamber of Deputies can't be some kind of hiding place, some kind of hiding place from prosecution. This is not an attack on this institution. In conclusion, I say again: I am holding Mr Svoboda's fingers. I consider this accusation absurd, and I attach myself to the idea of who would do those mayors and mayors to us if this were to be prosecuted. But let this be said by an independent court. Let us not replace the work of the court here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. Another point of fact was made by the Minister of Justice. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Svoboda, I would like to assure you that even by taking responsibility for the Justice Department, I am aware of the great trust and responsibility that this situation has placed on me, and I am convinced that I will do everything I can to ensure that those who will be issued or not, but I suppose we will soon know the final decision - they could rely on impartial justice, on the fact that the prosecution will be conducted by genuinely impartial prosecutors and judges. And I'll do anything for it. [[19.50 hours]] So I would like to join Mr Vondráček's predecessor, saying that we should not replace the criminal court, that we respect the principle of presumption of innocence. And like him, I believe that Mr. Svoboda will be cleared before our independent criminal courts if he is ever put before a criminal trial unless the prosecutor stops the prosecution. And I think it's gonna be a lot more satisfaction for him than if we just decided to move the time by four years. So even for this reason, I don't really think the defense led in his favor is a defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Minister. With another factual remark, Mr František Adámek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u20	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, maybe I and a few other colleagues who are representatives from Prague have been struggling with this problem, if I call it that, for a longer time. And I remember, and I would like to ask through the President, Mr docent Svoboda. I remember when this matter was discussed - and for a very long time and very strongly - in the Representation of the capital city of Prague, it was argued that there was actually no alternative. Because the Haguess license agreement was built so that there was no other way than to give it to Haguess. For the first time today in the resolution of the mandate and immune committee, I learn that it was actually a sublicense in 2010 and that it was also possible to include third parties in the selection procedure. That it didn't have to be just Haguess. I'll admit it's the first time I've heard this. The information at the Prague City Council was different. So I would like - I repeat through Mr President - to ask Mr docent. Freedom, as it were. And the second question, once again, through Mr President. JRBU, so called. Single management without publication, municipal politicians will give me the truth, is used in some way when, for some time reasons, advice or even the city gets into trouble. And I am not sure, and I would also like to ask whether this temporal aspect, which enabled JŘB's board, was objective, or whether by chance, whether the petitioner or somebody else had a flaw, and therefore JŘB had to be used. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another proper application, Mr Jan Zahradník is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it my civic duty to also comment on the present case. Twenty-three years of my time in the municipal and regional government have formed my view that the prosecution of members of these self-governing bodies for making decisions is wrong. I can give you three examples. The first example refers to the time just after the floods in 2002. At that time, the mayor of Český Krumlov was repeatedly tried for a matter which can be briefly formed, as if two subsidies from various sources had been drawn on a sport building in the property of the city for some time. This error has been corrected, no damage has been caused. Yet this honest man was repeatedly prosecuted, repeatedly accused, until finally he was freed. The second case is actually based on the first case. Representatives of the city of Český Krumlov, who decided to grant assistance to their mayor for legal services, were again charged and tried. They too were fully freed. And case three, that's a recent case. The mayor of the famous South Bohemian Sumava village Lipno nad Vltavou was again tried under dramatic circumstances for actually causing the development of the village - from the village that was there after the construction of the Lipno reservoir, to today's flowering village, which benefits both its citizens and its visitors. This mayor suffered the process, made great mental, physical and financial efforts and was also fully exonerated in the first instance. These three cases make me wonder whether mayors and mayors in our republic, which are more than six thousand, and representatives of tens of thousands, can calmly decide on matters of their own self-government, their community's affairs, how they decide, for example, when selling flats or supporting non-profit organizations operating in their communities. I don't feel like being a judge. I would just like to take advantage of the right that the legislator has called me and vote to issue or not to issue Mr. docent Svoboda. I'll vote against his extradition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. And now we have three priority rights. First of all, the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek signed up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u24	I volunteered for the debate, so if any of my colleagues who have a priority right also want to speak immediately, I'd be happy to give him a seat. [[No one's checking in.]] I, ladies and gentlemen, have applied, not to convince anyone of how to vote. I think we're all decided in some way. I consider it my duty to say that, for the reasons which have already been raised by my colleague Mr Polčák, I will vote against the extradition of Mr Svoboda. Of course, I respect the arguments of those who will decide on extradition. But please note that regardless of whether we vote against the issue or for the issue, all our colleagues who have discussed the matter in the mandate and immune committee feel the same as we do, who only know it from open sources - that this is very strange. That there are a number of very unusual steps from the police, from the law enforcement authorities. And basically, all of us who perform here have no doubt that Mr. docent Svoboda and his council colleagues are innocent and will certainly prove their innocence before an independent court. But it has a huge, wide impact. It has an impact on the whole democracy, it has an impact on the quality of municipal policy. The fact that HMP was accused as a collective political body for political decision is not an isolated case in the Czech Republic. I think something similar, and I don't think that less strange, we can find in Přerov, we can find in Břeclav and in a number of other cities and municipalities. In addition to being Members, we are also representatives of our political parties and movements. And we have, for example, before the municipal elections. The quality of democracy does not just stand and fall with democratic processes and mechanisms, but also, of course, with the quality of staffing of individual mandates. [[20.00 hours]] Who - I ask a rhetorical question - from people in individual municipalities and cities with their work, with their family, with their good name in such a situation will be willing to go into public administration? And how many of them will tell you - and I have that experience - no, thank you, in the current situation and in the current approach of repressive authorities, I refuse to buy a ticket to prison. I know I won't do anything criminal, but I refuse to prove it in criminal proceedings for five years, and I refuse to be dragged through the mud to get so-called clean after five years, but I'm already stuck with the mud. It's just that this person will consider having a family, having a good name, having a good job, because that's the kind of representative we want - and he's just not gonna risk it. Because the current situation is like this. And I would like to point out here without moving any motive or interest to law enforcement agencies. I would like to say here that it has an absolutely devastating impact on democracy. Which of the honorable women or men in Prague would like to take the place of Professor Svoboda now? A man who is deeply convinced of his innocence. A man whose innocence we are all deeply convinced of. But it may still be three or four years before it can be said: Well, it hasn't proved to him, but maybe he was the same villain because he was prosecuted for four years. Who will want to accept this fate for the benefit of their citizens? And I want to point this out because I'm extremely worried about it. Therefore, please consider, I do not want to express any strong opinion, but it simply cannot be ruled out, in theory, that in those cases that I have referred to, and we would certainly find more than Přerov, Břeclav, Prague, it is not possible to rule out 100% theoretically that the competent authorities were motivated by anything other than a hard service of justice. And I beg the competent parliamentary authorities, certainly the Security Committee, certainly the Committee of Constitutional Law, to address this issue. And I ask the rhetorical question of whether, for example, the case of Prague would not be worth all of us setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Because it has been said many times that a number of non-standard steps have taken place, and perhaps the Chamber of Deputies should look at why the whole series of non-standard steps have taken place. What was the absolutely necessary reason for the law enforcement authorities to take these non-standard steps. And I'm not saying it nicely for this particular case. Because there's just been an indictment, and the prosecution has to go ahead, either it's stopped, or an independent court will decide. But I'm talking about it with such seriousness and urgency for the reasons I said a moment ago. That it has an absolutely devastating impact on the personnel quality of policy and that it is something for which we have shared responsibility. And that we should not cross over and say, "Well, the court will decide somehow," but that we should look at whether these cases and this trend do much more harm to democracy than possible mistakes that could have occurred in the political decisions of the collective bodies. And that it would really be worth a careful glimpse of the Chamber of Deputies. And once again, please consider the possibility of a committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u25	I thank the President of the TOP 09 and the starosta. Mr. President of KDU-ČSL Jiří Mihola signed up with another priority right in his preferred premiere. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u26	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Many have already been said here today. I would just briefly state that the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club dealt with this issue carefully at its meeting. I would also like to say that the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club will not support the release of the Svoboda Professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. The last with priority rights to the general debate is the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, a lot has been said by my previous speakers, but I would still like to share my personal view. I'm not performing on behalf of the whole club. I want to argue with the opinion that has been expressed by the Minister or by his colleague, whether everyone defends themselves in court - but his innocence proves, it's strange, I'm keeping my fingers crossed, I think he's going to win. We're supposed to judge whether we're going to give up our colleague or not. I am here for the second term, so unfortunately I have had eight maybe ten such negotiations, and personally, in about half of the cases, I was in favour and in half of the cases I opposed. I think the time aspect is also crucial. It's the year and a half that we voted on the release of our former colleague and former Minister Vlasta Parkanová. Eighteen months! And what did our justice do? How have we moved on this case since then? I'm afraid not! It is not in the hands of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm just saying I heard similar speeches back then. Let's just hand it over. It's good for her to clean herself up. Unfortunately, we must say that every politician who is accused of this is badly injured in his professional career, which is politics. Not only his opponents from other political parties, but also within an intra-party duel often points out if he wants to defeat such a person: Attention, attention, he is accused, God knows how it will turn out, let us nominate someone else. Now maybe I'll ask a rhetorical question. If anyone would have a factual answer to her, I'd like to hear her. Do you remember the case of politics in the Czech Republic, when someone was accused and subsequently won the trial and was found innocent and then continued his political career? That the voters and the media took him for a really clean one? For the thought prevailed: Somehow they swept it under the carpet. He wasn't convicted, but God knows what happened. And I'll be glad to know. Okay, you got one case, okay, I don't mind. [[He's responding to the O.R.]] Colleagues have already mentioned that many of us have experience in local politics. 14 days ago, we were talking about the service bill, and we agreed we needed it. We didn't agree on the time of discussion or maybe on some details. However, Mr. Mayor Svoboda acted as we imagined the performance of the public service. His apparatus, his expert services recommended something to him, and politicians voted in favour of it politically. I am clearly aware that this prosecution, that the charge is for the political opinion expressed by the Donator Svoboda, his colleagues and colleagues by voting on the city council. I would ask that we not play with the fact that at that time we knew that he was going to run for MPs or did not know. Today, my colleague is a member of the Chamber of Deputies. And I see it for myself as an attack by executive power on self-government. There are cases where decisions by representatives and councillors are criminalized. And maybe wrong. I'm not questioning that. But what we ask is, are these people to be criminalized for error? I'm not talking about cases where someone voted because they got a bribe or something, that would be very clear. I am talking about when, in good faith, based on the evidence available to them from those officials whom we want them to be independent of political power, to give expert opinions, and politicians at each level, whether municipal, regional or republican, followed them as far as possible, or to justify why they did not follow these expert recommendations. [[20.10 hours]] That is why I see this as an attack on politicians and political decisions. I wouldn't want any of us to be prosecuted for making good faith decisions because politics really limits it in the profession. Moreover, as I mentioned in a previous case, the time aspect is also very important. So unfortunately, I can't agree. For me, it is rather that colleagues and colleagues do not be angry, alibi statements: let the court judge it, we should not judge it. We are to judge whether or not the case is politically related. I say that if someone is accused of voting in accordance with the recommendations of the expert unions and departments, it has a political background. If we seriously think that we will only turn the question of self-government into an economic effect and we will assess every decision of the government whether or not it has helped the municipality economically, I think thousands or tens of thousands of representatives are at risk, because really only from the economic point of view of the city and the municipalities lost tens of billions of Czech crowns at the time they privatized the housing fund. Almost no city or municipality privatized the housing fund on market terms and did not sell houses and apartments at market prices. I'm not criticizing it. I think that every council has every right to decide how to privatise in their city or community. All I'm saying is that if we put this simple economic perspective on it, there's 100% economic damage to the city. They are also cases, and colleagues have mentioned this here, about when under conspicuously disadvantageous conditions, you rent out school gyms, playgrounds, whether physical unity, other non-profit organizations. But that's what politics is all about. That's what governance is all about. With this, people are running for their councils or here, offering some program, offering what they will promote, and they are also voting and deciding accordingly. I would like us to assess this case not only by looking at Prague and Mr. Svoboda. I also judge him as a defense of local politicians, so that they know that possibly someone can defend them. And it could also be an entry into the debate about whether or not we're going to change any laws. I don't want to anticipate it that far now and promise because I think it takes a detailed, calm, factual debate. That is the main reason why I will vote against it. So that people who want to run in municipal politics may not have to worry that they will eventually be criminalized, prosecuted, and possibly liberated in court, for their decisions, whether well or badly, but in good faith, in accordance with expert advice. Let's see, even my colleagues here have said so, and I'm not calling for it: we know who was accused, we know who was liberated. And what do we know about the people who filed the charges and failed in court? Are they still the same guys, or are they always the same guys? Were they responsible for knowingly or unconsciously, but by their professional error when they were liberated, they made their family life, professional life, and careers difficult? I agree with the rapporteur that this is a huge intervention by the state in individual rights. And in my opinion, today, by voting for our colleagues who sit in municipal or regional councils, we can say: if you make an honest decision at your own discretion, you may be mistaken, everyone makes mistakes, but we will not allow you to be criminalized for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u29	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now we have three factual points. Mr Matěj Fichtner came forward with the first factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your word, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again only quickly. President Stanjura here said he wanted to stand up for local politicians. I think that the gap between assessing the criminal liability of municipal politicians and those enjoying privileges and immunities will be deepened by this. Because next to the Professor Svoboda, there are ten other people, maybe more who are charged, and they will be treated differently. Only two quick clarifications. President Stanjura asked if there was a case where a politician was somehow accused and then the court stated that his actions were in order and that he was essentially cleansed. I really know this case. It's the case of today's Minister Věra Jourová, who cleared herself in court. On this point, President Stanjura may yet have been rhetorical, I do not know whether there is any knowledge of those who have caused the individual accusations of specific politicians and what we know about them. We know at least about Colonel Kubice back then that he later became Minister for the ODS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Minister Věra Jourová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was kind of pulled out of my chair to say something about it, and now even appointed by my colleague. I listened very much to the Professor Svoboda when he talked about the roots that happened to him and how he felt about it. If I hadn't had the authentic experience myself, I might have taken it with a spare, but I remember very well the words when someone came to me who said to me, "Watch out with this decision, you don't know what might happen to you yet." And in ten minutes, I was sitting in Ruzyně, and those words sounded in my ears, and then they sounded to me for a few more years, and I'm still shaking. In my case, it wasn't an exoneration in court. My thing never went to trial because there wasn't even the slightest evidence. That was totally sucked out of my finger. And when Mrs. Parkanová was charged, I heard Mr. Kalousek screaming from this place that he would drink it somewhere, that someone would be held accountable. And I say from this place today: no one will drink it, because a prosecutor who gives a legal opinion in the prosecution that someone is a member of a gang of criminal conspiracy, which, by the way, was also my case, and that he acted with intent and that it is a crime, so he will never be called to account for being punished for ruining someone's life, career, family, health and so on. I waited patiently for the end of my prosecution so that I could turn this thing around and call it to the responsibility of someone who was either pardoned by a professional douchebag, that he misjudged it, plus there was no evidence, or he just did it out of intention, or that he was bribed. I never found out about this because there is no institute in our legal order to secure it. So it's in our hands. It's only when something happens to one of us and there's an immunity debate that we're talking about how our justice works. This matter concerns dozens of other people. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It's the local politicians. I've already crossed the line. I'm very shivering. I have a moral dilemma. I will vote in favour of the extradition of Mr Svoboda, because the ANO movement clearly states that it does not agree with the Institute of Immunity. If we hadn't made it clear, I probably wouldn't have raised my hand for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Minister. With another factual remark, Minister Martin Stropnický. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u34	Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, while the hour is advanced and so abundant participation is not quite a common practice, perhaps it is a subject that could concern many of us. I would say that the story of Mr. Svoboda is, in a way, emblematic. Mr. Docent decided at a mature age and after a successful, almost said a brilliant career to enter politics. I have no doubt for a second that he has entered it with pure intent and with a civil sense of some sort of responsibility. Then he tried to fill and materialize his credo in some way. Then he began to receive various threats and learned a lesson from the way politics takes place in our country. [[20.20 hours]] Then he stumbled upon, I think, a partial misunderstand of his own mother's party. Then he showed, I think, a great and apathetic personal bravery, and then what? I believe that no immunity will strengthen the rule of law in our country, just as subliminal or excessive threats to law enforcement authorities will not strengthen it. It's a sad picture of the level of rule of law I'm witnessing here. I didn't want to do it at all, and maybe it would be worth it for a moment in some self-esteem to think about how this form of rule of law happened in our country. [[Time warning]] And I'm afraid that in the near future, something similar may concern me, and without any false heroism, I'm asking you to turn me in, of course, in such a case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a factual remark, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. I'm sure it's an interesting debate, and I thank Secretary Jourová for the way she described it. And I say for myself, if it were her case - and I have no reason not to trust her with that lame or no burden of proof - in the House, I would vote against extradition because we're not the vending machine for that. The institute is. When it's cancelled, it's a different debate. If anyone can enforce the waiver of immunity, it's easy. If the rapporteur says it's not like we're not giving up the Donator today, it's forever. It's for the duration of his mandate. I think it was said from the speeches that we are in principle in agreement, except for the complete end when one says, well, publish, we have it on the electoral agenda. I respect that. I just asked you to reconsider. And I agree with that, I would like to know who, either completely unprofessionally or for money or on order, for another advantage, had someone put into custody and ruined his family and professional life. I really care! And that is neither hidden nor public threats to law enforcement authorities. Everyone just has to take responsibility for what they do. Even law enforcement agencies! It can't be that we're just gonna try, and we're either gonna get somebody or we're not gonna get somebody, but there's no responsibility if we don't do it, and we're gonna blame and we're gonna scandal innocent people, and we're not gonna carry - that's not a threat. I'm the one who thinks it's normal because I care who did it. If he's that weak, he can't do it. If he's been paid, he's supposed to go to jail. But in any case, he just can't continue his activities. Now, we know about one case that's media-famous, but the same person could have done ten other cases that are lucky in quotes, because it's not even luck when you're being scandalized... [[Time!]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr President of the TOP 09 and the Mayor, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Properly. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u38	I'm sorry, I don't mean to hold you back, but I was provoked to a reply in a good way, and I really consider this a very serious debate, by the speech of Minister Jourová and Minister Stropnický. I, in the last House, proposed a complete abolition of immunity, except for the appearance before the Chamber of Deputies, with an argument that I do not wish to burden you. After all, the Chamber of Deputies had a good reason, and the Senate also had a good reason not to comply with me, and not to be annulled, it was adjusted, that, as the rapporteur said, it is not forever. Thus, it has not been abolished, and immunity is not only the protection of one of us against possible bullying by law enforcement authorities, but the duty for each of us to consider according to our best knowledge and conscience whether this protection is to be granted at the moment or not in the interests of democracy. It's just a sword with two blades. We don't just have the right to hide behind immunity, but we have a duty, a constitutional duty to consider whether or not we are going to use the institute at the moment. So it can't get rid of our responsibilities when we say, "I don't agree, my party doesn't agree," so I just won't do it, even though I think I would have done it in my own conscience otherwise. This is the same as I don't have to agree with a whole series of laws and a whole series of provisions in the Constitution, I just don't have to agree, but that's about all I can do about it, because as long as it's true, I have a duty, and if I'm a constitutional official, I have a constitutional obligation to respect it, and I don't ignore it, because I disagree. That is one thing I would very much like to emphasise. I can't ignore him just because I don't agree with it, and I can't get rid of my own responsibility. And sometimes it's a very tormenting responsibility to say: our party has a disagreement in the program, so I'm just not going to deal with it at all, I'm not going to live up to my constitutional responsibilities, I'm not going to consider it at all. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm not sure any of us have a right to that attitude. That's one point. Second comment on subliminal or how we imagine the rule of law and whether there were hidden or subliminal threats to the police. Well, it certainly didn't. And one of the greatest achievements of the rule of law after 1990, and I would like to remind all of us, we are basically the same age with the Minister, it was that repressive forces were once again under political control that they were not under before. The depressive components of the executive must be impartial, but they cannot be independent and cannot be deprived of political control. This is part of the legal democratic state, as we imagined it would be. And if I asked you to at the moment that we all, whether we vote in favour of the issue, or we vote against the issue - I say again, respect all those opinions - when you all say that you were sitting on the mandate and immune committee, that there were a lot of non-standard things happening there, that it is very strange and that you are not questioning innocently accused, if I ask you to consider whether we are going to set up a committee of inquiry, we are not threatening anyone. This is precisely the political control to which we are obliged when we feel that this is needed. If the parliamentary committee of inquiry states that this is all right and that every non-standard step that took place there had its reason, it is perfectly fine, just as any accused person will be cleared before the court. I don't know why the mention of an institution of legal political control is seen as a threat. I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now I have three factual points. First of all, Mr Martin Komárek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u40	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, it will be considerably less. I just want to make it right that we may not have been fully understood, we, the representatives of the YES movement, when we are told that we are some inquisitors who want to release some poor man just because we have it in the program. No, ladies and gentlemen! It is only because we are in solidarity with citizens who do not have the immunity institute and cannot appeal to any House and must go through the police and judicial procedure and clear themselves. So we just don't want to be more equal with equals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Minister Daniel Herman. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u42	Mr President, colleagues, I was a member of the mandate and immune committee until recently. I had the opportunity to get to know the whole case and all the circumstances in detail. I do not want to repeat the arguments that have been made here several times, and I think they have been put forward very well. We certainly cannot subpoena the decision of an independent court, but we have a very specific possibility of making decisions based on our best knowledge and conscience. It is on this basis that I would like to say, as has already been said here from the mouth of the President of our club, that I will vote against the extradition of Mr. Docent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, Minister. With another factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Lobkowicz. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u44	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In November, we all promised and swore that we would always act according to our best knowledge and conscience. Today, a lady came forward and said that she would have acted differently, but that her party did not want it, so she will vote in favour. Is it from the best of consciousness and conscience? That's just a question. Thank you. We're thinking about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, with the right of priority, the rapporteur, Mr Polčák, has signed up with a proper application. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. I will no longer speak in the final word, only in order to respond to what I say here, so I will allow myself to speak repeatedly in this debate. Very briefly. I really have to ask what happens if the Donate of Svoboda isn't released. Because it's not a lifelong immunity grant like the adjustment was before. I think that the only thing that is going to happen is that the accused group will make it possible for the court to be acquitted, and the Professor Svoboda will simply be spared from this trial. I want to say that I was quite a keen supporter of the abolition of immunity. We even organized a petition for this in the Zlín Region, I collected the signatures of the citizens. But then, when a person inside that organ gets to know the different possibilities of how some cases have been raised, then he has to change his mind, and so I publicly declare it. I mean, my opinion has changed with another case, the case of former MP Otto Chaloupka. He was accused, he was released by this House, I did not vote for his publication - I do not want to add to the seriousness that I had already assumed that he would be acquitted, but he went through a cesspool. He just had to face the charges, he was quoted everywhere as the prosecuted MP. Of course, then the acquittal, I don't know to what extent the satisfaction was, but everyone who knows the background knows that if it wasn't for him being a MP, the case never came up. I want to say and to some extent ask two questions. I won't even look for an answer. Let us really ask ourselves what, then, is the sovereignty of Parliament when it is to decide on the extradition of its member. I would like to know the opinion of my colleagues on this, but not in this debate, unless it is absolutely necessary. Secondly, I want to say where the immunity institute developed. Perhaps, colleagues, you know - after all, I dare say that this institute was created in England when Members traveled to Parliament's meetings so that the so-called king could not touch them, in other words, to give passage to Members for Parliament's meetings, who, of course, already controlled their King to some extent. In such a cradle of democracy, an institute was created, which we consider completely undemocratic. It's probably a little strange, but we were in the UK in the past, too, with the constitutional committee, where we were present with trainings or seminars about exactly when immunity is being applied in England today. And I do not want to say with 100% certainty, but I am convinced that this case of Professor Svoboda would not be a reason for the English Parliament to issue such a colleague. Finally, I just want to say one question, perhaps the last. I am the rapporteur on this matter. I have spent tens of hours on this case, but if only an aspect of the electoral programme is being applied in the matter that some colleagues have presented here, I would ask that, in future, the rapporteurs be made by colleagues from the ANO movement, and I do not mean that ironically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u47	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now I have three proper applications. Mr Jan Bartošek first came forward with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna ask my colleagues on the left for some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. I think we're dealing with an ex-post case, opencard. It should be remembered that at the beginning of this troubled project, there are two names that are unrelated to the Professor Svoboda. He's Deputy Director Blažek and former Mayor Bém. Just to remind us - who did Mr. Mayor Bém talk on the phone and the whole nation knows about it? Is that Mr. Janoušek? Am I saying that right? And even though the police know about it, at this point - if I have good information - it doesn't. And yet I find this issue of the very beginning of Opencard much more important and important to be examined than what we are dealing with now. From my point of view, it is not good to issue a Svoboda Professor - and I will vote against his extradition - because from the information I have, this was a very important management decision to eliminate much worse economic losses and at the same time protect hundreds of thousands of Opencard users. You can think of anything about it, however, the buried dog and the problem lies with Deputy Secretary Blažek and Bém, and not in the decision that must have followed the treatment of the city's investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly signed up is Mr Ivan Gabal. Mr. Marek Benda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I didn't want to perform, but since emotions are pouring in here and the facts are forgetting, I'm only gonna remind a few of them. In December 2009, the representative of the Prague Council of Ministers, Ryšlinková, brought an action under the audit of A.T. Kearney, which clearly indicated at least five categories of criminal offences, one of which was organized fraud. She filed it at the OKFK. The investigation was underway, and in the following year, police officers were gradually dropping out, and it didn't work out until almost everyone passed out. After all, even the person who provided the police with information in the position of a confidential witness was charged, and the information was of no use. In 2013, the police postponed all five acts. Again, on the basis of the audit A T Kearney, from which it was clear, and it was all about - not proving the crime and finding its originator. I think if these crimes were investigated then, we wouldn't have anything to deal with today. We are dealing with the consequences of the inaction. That is, the question of how much the court can or cannot decide correctly when dealing with the consequences of inaction is a reason for me not to want to give up my fellow Freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, honourable Member. With another proper application, Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have basically applied in response to a colleague of Komárek, who I otherwise appreciate very much because I feel that something is not being understood here. Immunity is not the personal privilege of this congregation. It's not a personal privilege for any of us. This is the protection of those voters who elected us here to represent these voters. Mr. Docent Svoboda had about 15,000 preferential votes in Prague. And all these votes, we say that by some decision of the law enforcement authorities, they can be thrown away. [[20.40 hours]] Our decision-making - and it has been done many times in the past, we have experienced the story of Mr Huml, whom this House has not issued despite his request, the other accused of the case after two years completely exonerated, no one has, of course, apologized to Mr Huml, but no one continues to prosecute him because it has been understood that this is a complete nonsense. And if we decide today that we are releasing the Member concerned, we say that at any time it can be taken into custody, that any time a law enforcement authority can come and invite him to explain, that he will be brought to justice, and perhaps at that moment we will decide something important in the House where the vote may be missing. That is why it is our consideration whether the votes we have voted for the Member in question are to be protected. It is not at all the protection of the Member, one of us, it is the protection of the voters who have sent him here for themselves and who want him to represent them here. The moment we collect this protection - hence the immunity in the Chamber of Deputies. Second thing. Professor Válková, the Minister of Justice today, said: "We must not replace the court. " Yes, we are not to replace the court, which is why the Constitution changed in the last term and it was said: "If the House refuses to issue, prosecution is excluded during the term of office." Then, of course, it is possible for a Member to continue to be prosecuted. Fortunately, I didn't have to be a member of the mandate and immune committee anymore, and I didn't have to read the scary file of the Police of the Czech Republic, I only read the accusations, so I can imagine what I would read in it. If most auditors here think it's absurd, and I think they think it is, and they think it's immune, then it's fair and fair to say, "We're not gonna let 15,000 votes of voters bother each other here just to confirm one of our own, I don't know whether an opinion or a principle when we know it's all gonna end up lost." If the council members are guilty, they will undoubtedly be found guilty in the years to come, and then, no doubt, in three years' time, the Docent of Svoboda can be prosecuted. If it turns out they're not guilty, which, in my deepest opinion, turns out, then, surprisingly, in three years, there will be no prosecution. And the last sentence. Comrade Komárek said: "Create the conditions for this to happen to no one. " Now there are 17 honorable men and women sitting behind me who just took responsibility for the fact that when one of them brings material to the government after a month, after five years, he's gonna dislike someone from the police authorities, and he's gonna say that the material was supposed to look different, I have a new opinion, so maybe all of them will be put on trial on the basis of a criminal conspiracy. If we feel that this is wrong, that the accusations of the entire councils, the whole council for things prepared by the authorities, in which there is no doubt that any of the accused has done anything wrong there, if we feel that this is wrong and that we want to defend it for the future, and maybe it is our fault that we have not been able to prevent it in the past, then I feel that the best signal that we can send is that we are not going to say at this time: because this is something that we all want to deal with because we consider it bad and devastating for this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u53	I thank Mr Benda. Mr František Laudát is the last member of the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u54	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of my health disability, I did not want to speak to the debate, however. For one thing, I see a contradiction between the fact that the new Members are clear about the fact that Professor Svoboda is not guilty, but they will also vote in favour of the issue, i.e. You say you don't do politics, but you're actually showing off that you're partisan lines. Anyway, that's not what I wanted to talk about. I mean, I believe that none of the city councils who voted are guilty. In the past period, and I am sorry that the Minister obviously didn't want to talk about it, or yet he doesn't realize the reach of what is happening in this country. For the sake of illustration, I'd like to be filled in by my colleagues who were there... We had an exit meeting of the Supervisory Committee at the end of the last parliamentary term, which ended earlier. You may remember, it was also in the media, the case of land under the sports grounds of Sparta. At the time, a senior official representing the state in property matters told us the story that the lady was actually out of control there, I don't know how the current situation today was condemned, then a high clerk of the Ministry of Finance, for selling the land cheaply. In the course of the legal proceedings, I think about eight expert opinions, not one of the expert opinions disagreed on the price. All the reports were with a round stamp, i.e. From forensic experts who have the authority to do so. The state should, in its own way, guarantee that when these people sign something, so that it should be and at least that someone should behave accordingly, let alone political officials. It ended with the judge in the first instance taking the highest opinion, from which she deducted the price for which the principal signed it to sell, and the difference was declared to have caused damage to the state, and for that amount she was convicted. I think there were amounts that fell, that the lowest opinion was about 35 million and the highest in the order somehow 150 or perhaps even more. I think we've come to believe that there's no way to anticipate legal decisions in this country, the power of laws. I believe that today we will not only be voting on a particular person, although I always see a particular person behind those decisions, but also whether we will send a signal that we are not satisfied with the situation, with the ambiguity of what is happening. I think it is worth a great deal of consideration what Miroslav Kalousek, chairman of our club, has proposed here not yet in the form of a resolution - to set up an investigation committee. She would not only demonstrate this particular case, but perhaps it would be a model situation which laws need to be amended, which laws need to be amended. The big issue is the Public Procurement Act. I took one from your President Babiš's performance on Sunday. He said: There is no way that suppliers for the public sector - he said it a little differently - were afraid. Today, for example. There's a great deal of fear in this sector. You think you're going to attract investors into this country, where someone decides to try and just write some accusations, because of course it's not just about the public sector, it's just one of the cuttings, but it's about the whole company. You think somebody's gonna come here to invest? To a country where there are serious concerns? And it doesn't just sound from me, criminal charges are prematurely initiated, prosecution. I heard, and it's a very popular Nagyová affair today, when the prosecutor said, "We need, like, two months to present you with clear, devastating, shocking facts." Then there was talk of September, then by the end of the year, today we have the beginning of February of the following year - and still the network of the mobsters, the fundamental facts, so I can't see anywhere. At the same time, it was a case that put the government down. This country. [[20.50 hours]] I, of course, will not vote in favour of the issue, just as I did not vote in favour of Mr Schwarz's extradition, just as I did not vote in favour of Mr Huml's extradition in the past period. I left because we also thought at the time, most politicians in TOP 09 were new, that we would really just establish a clear, straight line. It's popular towards the public. Only when you're here for a long time and suddenly your MPs, your ministers, because they now have executive authority, and then suddenly somewhere maybe rightfully somebody scandalize, what's the exercise of politics in the head that can be condemned, that it can be scandalized, that it can just get into a completely different situation, do you think it will be fully devoted to political work? I think there's somewhere to say that something has crossed a certain line. I think it's gone somewhere in our country that I don't think we want anymore. I'm not saying that we should tolerate any rip-off, but I can still see that politicians run after interrogation courts, but godparents ride yachts to the Mediterranean. So something's not right here. It does not suit me that someone has acquired miraculous property when at the beginning of the municipal policy in Prague he had one miserable, un thriving pump, and today he has companies that may be worth hundreds of millions or billions. There's nothing going on. On the contrary, they comment and say, that's what happened, it wouldn't have happened for us and so on. So I have bigger and bigger doubts. That is why I would like the Minister of Justice, and it will not be an easy task at all, to look at a whole series of cases, to make statistics, to see how they end, how long they last. Hugely assaulted in public amnesty written by President Klaus. I'm sure a lot of things didn't sit there and shouldn't have been, but few have been in this company and have raised a question in the House at that time: Is it normal for any court or prosecution, even a criminal trial to last for more than five years, six years? How much is the reasonable time? And here it may be that just those politicians who tried in good faith to correct some marast that the gentlemen who are no longer in politics and are laughing at, so how many will they fly in the courts - five years, ten years. So I want you to think. It's not just about the immunity of one MP anymore. I think we need to deal with this, and if you as a government coalition don't do something about it, it'll catch up with you. You don't raise the economy's performance unless you change some laws. Democracy is not about prosecuting everyone. It seems to me that, in some aspects, a sort of Stalinist-type democracy is already beginning to be here. No prosperous company in the world was built by prosecutors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u55	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u56	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to make a brief remark on what has been said so far. In addition to being one of you, I am also a municipal politician, I would like to say here that it is a pity that other local politicians do not have the opportunity to defend themselves publicly, because today it is really very easy to find themselves in a similar position. In this sense, Mr. Former Mayor of Svoboda has the advantage of being able to defend himself here today. At the same time, I would like to ask whether we have not gotten to the point where politicians are becoming too easily subject to criminal proceedings. And I quite agree that we are in a situation where it is very easy to accuse someone nowadays, then to accuse them. It has this destructive, diffuse effect, which is hard to heal in time. In this sense, we should undoubtedly consider whether it is also the fault of our legislators that we adopt laws that allow for such a variety of interpretations, because the particular example of Mr Svoboda Professor is whether the law on public procurement has been correctly applied. So I'm asking myself what law on public procurement you approved here in the past period, and it should be inspiring for us in the future to keep an eye on this precisely, because the exact diction of the law is exactly what then binds the application of that power and then controlled power, the power of the court. The example given here by President Stanjura with the privatisation would not be right. You can deviate from the price, you can sell at a lower price, but it must always be justified, it must be transparent and it must not be discriminatory. Your colleague, Mayor of Prague 2, knows exactly what I'm talking about. I also privatize such apartments in the conditions of Prague 6, so I know exactly what the rule is. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you for the opportunity to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u57	I do not currently have any factual or proper application for a general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. We will proceed to a debate in detail, which I also do not see any application for, and therefore I am asking the rapporteur if he wants the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, Mr President. It will not be the final word, but I should speak here and propose a resolution only to the respondents. May I?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-04-ps2013-006-01-001-001.u59	On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, if you specifically want a motion for a vote, I would now interrupt the discussion of this point. At the same time, I would end today's meeting of the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and interrupt the meeting of the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you a nice evening, my dear colleagues, and tomorrow at 9 a.m., the meeting will continue.
