ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary and Minister, I am opening the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a proposal for a 19th meeting on Thursday 9 October and the invitation was sent to you on Friday 10th. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I have information so far that Mr Tejc is voting with replacement card number 6. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Adolf Beznoska and Mr Jaroslav Klaška. I'll ask if there's another proposal. It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Initiating vote number one, and I ask who agrees that the verifiers of this meeting become Mr. Beznoska and Mr. Klaška. Who opposes this proposal? In this number 1 vote, 105 colleagues and colleagues are registered, for is 95, against was no one. I am therefore of the opinion that we have designated Mr Adolf Beznoska and Mr Jaroslav Klaška's masters of the 19th meeting. Now I'd like to introduce you to my apologies. Before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence: Mr Adamec - working grounds, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - health reasons, Mr Čihák - working reasons, Vice-President Gazdík - foreign travel, Mrs Hubáčková - personal reasons, Vice-President Jermanová from three to five for working reasons, Mr Komárek within three hours - personal reasons, Mrs Kovářová within 16 hours - working reasons and Mrs Putnová for working reasons. The Prime Minister apologizes from the members of the government from 15 o'clock for work reasons, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš for work reasons, Minister Jurečka - foreign travel, Minister Marksová for work reasons and Minister Zaorálek - foreign travel. So many apologies. We would now proceed to the appointment of the 19th meeting. Your proposal is listed on the invitation. Before I give the floor to the debate, I will introduce you to the proposal of the Chamber of Deputies. On Wednesday, 22 October, the House's leadership proposes that we discuss paragraph 16 as the first item, which is the first reading law concerning the exchange of information with the United States. We would then start discussing the first reading of the state budget. After a lunch break, we would firmly include a new item called the motion for a resolution, which sets out more detailed rules for the deliberations of the Chamber of Deputies and its institutions. You should have the motion for a resolution either in your mailing pages or in paper form. To put it simply, this is a solution to the situation where proposals for a change of programme were presented at the time of the written interventions and there were objections, in particular from the opposition, that this is an inappropriate shortening of their right to interpelation. That is why we have agreed to a proposal that will set aside half an hour after the completion of the written interventions. You have the text at your disposal. Then we would return to discussing the state budget again if it was not finished by then. We would then discuss paragraphs 19 and 24. That's quite a Wednesday. Then there is a proposal that we place points 2 and 3 firmly on this Friday, which are the laws returned by the President of the Republic. Then I would like to inform you that the Minister of Justice has announced to us that the Government is taking back House press 321, which is paragraph 95. I mean, please cross it off, we don't have to vote on it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has asked for item 81 to be eliminated, House Press 170, which - if I am not mistaken - is a fiscal compact. Furthermore, we also propose that we eliminate paragraphs 6 and 103, which is the second and third reading of the Lottery Act, at the request of the Ministry of Finance. On Friday, we would discuss the points from the third reading block that already have legal deadlines, that is, point 99 and point 100, and then we would discuss point 62, which is the first reading of the law on hunting, and then according to the approved order. As I said, at 11 o'clock on Friday, we would be discussing the laws passed by the President of the Republic. So much for the proposal from the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Kalousek has a replacement card number 13. I will now give room to those who report to the agenda. The first is Mr Číp and then Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, I propose removing item 70 from the agenda of our meeting. In fact, if we wanted to discuss this point, we would be in conflict with the UN Security Council Resolution 1244 in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u3	Yes, thank you. Drop point 70. Mr. Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u4	Hello. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, allow me to propose to include a new item in the agenda of today's meeting, namely the Government's information on the economic condition and personnel status in the Czech Airlines, which would include answering questions concerning the contract concluded by the Czech State with the Korean carrier and which lead to a long-term reduction in the number of employees and performances of the Czech Airlines. The reason for submitting this information is an unhappy condition, which is announced from the point of view of the intention to release a significant part of pilots and service staff in the Czech Airlines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. So the new item would be called Information of the Government on the economic and personnel situation in ČSA. I'll ask you when you wish to include it, Mr. Ambassador. [[Member Grospic outside the language: Into the program.]] Is it enough for the program? You don't want to get fixed. Yes, thank you. Mr. Mr. kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u6	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues, and esteemed colleagues and members of the government. I'd like to ask you or ask you for a new point. I would like to call this point the Discussion of Incompatibilities of Functions with a member of the Czech Radio Council. Very brief explanation. On the electoral, eventually media committee, we discussed the potential difficulty, conflict of interest or incompatibility of office with one of the members of the radio board. This concerns Mr Ivan Vodochodský, and there has been a problem that the interpretation of the law is quite extensive and, in a way, double. The election committee couldn't decide, couldn't close the problem. So I'd like to ask that this problem be discussed here in the House so the House can decide whether or not it has a problem. I would like to provide a detailed explanation just then during the discussion of this point. If you will agree, I would like to place this point firmly next week on Thursday 30 October as the first point in the morning after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u7	In the afternoon or in the morning?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u8	Morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u9	Morning. That is, after the fixed points, after the written interpelations. Yes, thank you. Mr Zahradník, Mrs Černochová and then Mr Laudát will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda of our meeting, we also have item 65, Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava, House Press 250. This is a Senate bill that the Senate passed with significant support. Of the 54 Senators present, 50 voted for him. It would therefore be a good idea for us to provide some assurance to those who will be appointed by the Senate as to the inclusion of this item on our agenda, so I would like to propose that this item number 65, House press 250, should be included on Wednesday, 29 October following the already firmly placed points, which I think are contracts, and therefore it can be estimated that our item could come on the agenda around 14 o'clock. So I repeat again, Wednesday 29th. 10th after the points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u11	Yes, thank you. Now, Mrs Černochová, then, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose a point for today, after the fixed points entitled Request for an apology to Martin Stropnický soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic for damage to their good name on the television series. What leads me to do this, many of you know because you've already commented on it in various media. On Sunday, another episode of CSI Anděl was broadcast, where Secretary of Defense Stropnický plays an investigator, a member of the Mordparta who liked to take part in the task of investigating drug dealership, specifically opium, soldiers who returned from a mission in Afghanistan. They were supposed to leave on that mission - those of you who saw it, you know what the story was. Soldiers became murderers, drug dealers, hooligans, criminals. In the finals of the General Staff Colonel, the Minister of Defence sent out his sweatpants. Congratulations. And I think that even though I was one of those who didn't speak out against the minister in the past, that I would hate him to be involved as an actor, after what I saw on Sunday, I re-evaluated my position. I think Minister Stropnický should play in fairy tales in the future, and not in films that damage the reputation of the Army of the Czech Republic in such a fundamental way, and I ask the Minister if he is a man to apologize to them, because otherwise I would have to use what Tonda Blaník says in Blaník's Office: This is - three dots, you can imagine - he will say it in the series, and it is still wrong. [[The President Asks for Peace]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u13	Mr Laudát now, Mr Kádner and Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u14	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I promised to make a hard effort to make you -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u15	I ask you not to settle down, to discuss, so that Mr Laudát can make his proposal in a dignified atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u16	Allow me to propose the inclusion of a point that will be called the Critical Situation in the Transport Department and the establishment of an investigative commission on the activities of the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař. Short justification. Last week, some of you attended an emergency meeting here. On the proposal of the Chairman of the Social Democracy Club, you have voted that you do not want to discuss this very difficult situation in the Transport Department, except for one exception, when the Minister spoke with a pre-prepared speech, but which I do not think would be appropriate for the House to hear the answers here, with the exception of a certain tender of non-tender to one railway line, so he did not answer the other questions at all. Just to refresh your memory. Please, I have appealed to you here that I consider a critical and worsening situation in terms of road safety. Every day, virtually on our roads, people die again and again, and BESIP is shattered. Nor has the strange additions, perhaps extremely disadvantageous for the state, already contracted contracts, been answered by questions relating to the idea of liberalisation of the railway. Therefore, the preparation of the tender for the new electronic toll collector was not answered. We have now learned that the Minister is not even able to arrange the next year's prizes with the government, which I feel has not yet happened in this period so that the prices for next year are not known in advance, and has not been answered by a number of other and other questions. I believe that the election is really over, so you can no longer say that this is some kind of electoral rhetoric, a pre-election rhetoric, and again I call on you to take this seriously into consideration. In the meantime, I have learned or read that also Minister Babiš, or Vice Prime Minister, had declared himself to be in complete chaos at the Roads and Motorways Directorate. So please, what else has to happen to allow everyone to discuss this crisis issue? That is why I am asking you to place this item on Friday after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. Mr Kádner, Mr Kováčik after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u18	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, please remove House Press 325 from the agenda of this meeting, this plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, which is the Information on the flights and transits of the armed forces of other states carried out through the territory of the Czech Republic in the first half of 2014. According to the invitation, it's point 124. The Committee has been ordered by this press on 24 September 2014 and has not yet been consulted by the Committee. It shall discuss it at the next proper meeting of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Furthermore, President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. In the account of the discussion that is going on here, I would like to point out that Minister Stropnický is handling his role in the series very well, at least according to what I was able to see. He's a real professional, an actor as he should be. And I do not think that we should be dealing with the series fiction here in the Chamber of Deputies, because what was there is fiction and it is a situation that may or may not happen. It doesn't concern anybody specific in the military, any of those soldiers returning from the mission or operating in any mission. I think that point would be somewhat redundant. If, of course, we want to make a promotion to Minister Stropnický, and to the series and television NOVA too, then let's get to the point. I have a different nature to ask. Allow me to ask you to include a new item in the Chamber of Deputies' agenda. That item should be entitled Information of the Minister of Industry and Trade on the updating of the state energy concept. I remind you that the last state energy concept was adopted ten years ago. Since then, let's admit, the energy has changed considerably. The conditions under which energy works have changed, external and internal influences have changed. In 2004, renewable resources were in diapers, the solar tunnel was far ahead of us, and the regulation of energy was significantly stronger. [[14.20 hours]] The previous right-wing governments promised updates from time to time, but the deed escaped, nothing happened. I therefore hope that the current government, even in the light of the new challenges ahead of energy, will finally be able to complete the energy update to the end. It seems, at least according to our information, that the update of the state energy concept is in the finals, that the environmental impact survey is complete, and that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has completed the inter-reviewal commentary procedure. That is why I believe, and I am not alone, that it is high time to present the result to the Chamber of Deputies, before the document in its final form is prepared for approval by the Government. Although the state energy concept is only approved by the government, I believe that Members should also express their views on this concept and thus influence its final form. Therefore, in addition to the inclusion of the item at the meeting, I also ask the Minister of Industry and Trade to send out to Members and Members the latest version of the update of the state energy concept so that we can all get acquainted with its wording and deal with it in a qualified manner at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I propose to include this point next Thursday as the first point after the points already included, that is, if memory does not deceive me, so if we are declaring what has been proposed here today, it should be next Thursday as the second point after written interpelations. Thank you for your attention and support for my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. President Fiala, Mrs Pecková after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. Have a good afternoon. Let me put a point number 135. It is a House document 1142, a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for the examination of serious errors that occurred in the construction of the D47 motorway. I would put this classification after the preliminary agreement of the Gremia on Thursday morning as the third point after the points already included.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u23	Yes, thank you. Mrs Pecková, Mr Kubíček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u24	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask for a special vote to be taken on the elimination of paragraph 95. It would seem that the international treaty to which this item is placed might, in principle, be allowed to postpone. I'm convinced otherwise. Because in this case it is called. The Lanzarot Convention, a treaty that is about combating sexual violence against children. At every meeting of the Council of Europe, I answer very unpleasant questions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u25	Madam, I am so sorry. It concerns the information put in here by the Minister of Justice that the government is taking back print number 321, paragraph 95. This cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u26	I'm sorry. I thought it was a way out of the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u27	It's taking back from the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u29	Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include paragraph 93, House press 311, the agreement of the Czech Republic and the USA on tax legislation, on Wednesday 22 October as the first item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u31	I'm just commenting. There was a little miscommunication. It is necessary to discuss this agreement before the law which proposes to include the House's leadership as the first point, so that these two things are related. So this is a logical suggestion, I apologize for the confusion. Mr. Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose the inclusion of item number 40, House press number 42, end of second reading and end of third reading. It is a law on the register of contracts, which was submitted by you, seventy-seven, plus by me to the House in December last year, in January it was discussed at first reading in the House, on 30 May it was discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee and this constitutional committee was approved and referred to the House. She's been lying around ever since. Since it was a promise of the absolute majority of us that we will try to pass this law here and even approve it, I think it is not quite dignified for us to postpone this law indefinitely. This law is open to discussion at this meeting, because under the original version, which was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, there are also 77 other Members signed outside the half of the government. At the same time 165 of you stated before the elections that this proposal would be supported, and although there were some comments in the constitutional committee, the amendment which incorporated them all into it, and is therefore in conformity with the approved resolution of the Constitutional Committee, is ready and ready. That is why this bill is voteable at this meeting and I think it would be stupid to delay it further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u33	That means, it's a new point, virtually. two new points at the House meeting, second and third reading of the House's press 42. Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else is applying to the agenda. If not, we will proceed to the vote. First of all, we would vote on proposals from the Gremium. I'll ask if it's okay. All at once, what we agreed to on the Gremium. Mr. Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u34	Thank you, Mr President, but with the exception of, perhaps, or how you will stand up to it, what Mrs Pecková has proposed, that is to reclassify, because the three points have fallen out there. That means, that's the Lanzarot deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u35	I have clearly explained, at least I hope, that the House will not vote on this when the government takes back the House's press. There's nothing we can do about it. So the press isn't here, so we can't include it. Therefore, we would vote on the proposal for the House's leadership as a whole. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 2, logged in 182, for 173, against nobody. This proposal was adopted. We will now proceed to the individual proposals as they have been made. Mr Číp wants to take out item number 70, which I presume is Kosovo, but I will check it just in case. Yes, it's a contract with Kosov. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 3, registered is 182, for 55, versus 88. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Grospič, new item - Information about the economic and personnel status of ČSA. Is that correct, Mr. Ambassador? Yes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 4, registered 183, for 81, against 81. This proposal has not been adopted. [[14.30 hours]] Mr. Mr. kolovratník. New item entitled Discussion of Incompatibilities of Functions with Members of the Council of the Czech Radio, firmly on Thursday 30. 10. after fixed points, this means as point number 2 at this stage. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 5. It's logged in 183. For 50, against 50, this proposal was not accepted. Mr. Zahradník. House printing 250, which means Sumava, to place firmly on Wednesday 29 October after fixed points, i.e. as point 11. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 6. The application is 184, for 54, against 72, the proposal was not accepted. Mrs Černochová. Request for an apology from Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický to soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic for damage to their good name. Madame, did you wish for a solid assignment? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] I mean, today, after the fixed points. Thank you for the clarification. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 7. The application is 184, for 46, against 102, this proposal has not been accepted. Mr Laudát proposes a new point which would be: the critical situation in the transport resort and the establishment of an investigative commission on the activities of the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař. He wishes to place it on this Friday after the fixed points, which would theoretically be as point 2 with the fact that for 11 o'clock we have already firmly classified points returned by the President of the Republic. We still have two first readings, i.e. as point 4. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 8. Registered 185, for 66, against 92, this proposal was not accepted. Mr Kádner - knock out the House Press 325, which is a report on overflights, due to a lack of discussion in committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 9. The application is 185, for 101, against 17, this proposal has been accepted. Chairman Kováčik. New point Information of the Minister of Industry and Trade on the current situation in the preparation of the energy concept of the Czech Republic. He would like to place it firmly for next Thursday, i.e. 30th, and it would be point 2 after written interpelations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 10. The application is 185, for 79, against 82, this proposal has not been accepted. Mr. Fiala. Investigation commission D47 - for this Thursday as the third point after written interpelations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 11. Registered 185, for 170, against no one, this proposal was accepted. Mr Kubíček - this is the treaty with the USA, which would be prescribed by the law, which was proposed from Gremia, i.e. as the first item in tomorrow's House meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 12. Registered 185, for 151, against no one, this proposal was accepted. The last is Mr Farský's proposal, two new points - second and third readings always to the relevant printing blocks 42, which is the register of contracts. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 13. The application is 185, for 57, against 79, this proposal has not been accepted. I ask if all the proposals that have been made have been voted on? That's right, no one's objecting. All we have left at this stage is to vote on the proposal for a programme as a whole, as tabled and adapted by the relevant amendments adopted. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this motion for a meeting to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 14. It is registered 185, for 180, against no one, this proposal has been accepted and I note that we have approved the agenda of the meeting. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. dáma and gentlemen, the House of Deputies has mostly refused to put Minister Stropnický's apology to foreign missions on the agenda. I understand, and I have one request: If, Minister, you don't have the courage to apologize to the soldiers in our missions as Secretary of Defense, could you at least apologize to them as Colonel Tomeček? That you would say, "Please understand, someday they'll write me the script wrong on Czech TV, sometimes in YES 2011, it's not my fault, I'm just saying the scripts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u37	Before we proceed to the first point that we have approved, Mrs Jourová asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, as you know, it is my duty, given my nomination as Commissioner for the Czech Republic, to resign my mandate as Member of the House of the Czech Republic. I had the opportunity to do it with a notary record, which is a dry road that would deprive me of the experience yet to meet you. I could not resist this experience and I am very glad and thank you for having given me the opportunity here today to perform this obligation for meeting you. I would like to take this opportunity to speak briefly about how I imagine cooperation with the Czech Republic, with the Government, with Parliament. [[14.40 hours]] Allow me, however, first of all, to say a few words about how I imagine that the image of the Czech Republic in the European Union should look. I think it is a good thing that the Czech Republic is increasingly claiming the position of a strong member of the European Union with a strong voice and promoting its national interests. I think we agree that a functioning and stable European Union is also a prerequisite for a functioning and stable Czech Republic. We face a number of global challenges. Without membership of the European Union, we certainly could not stand as an individual. The European Union is not just an economy where we have a number of high national interests, such as strengthening the common market, networking, broadband, transport, science and research using European resources. Increasing the share of exports with the assistance of the European Union. Securing energy security. We have a number of other economic interests, such as supporting industry, where the Czech Republic has a high share of industry in employment and GDP creation, higher than other countries in the European Union. These are all economic interests which I believe will continue to promote the Czech Republic. Europe, it is not only the economy, it is also the values that need to be returned to from time to time. I think it is very good that the Czech Republic is part of the clubs in which the value of the rule of law, democracy, is recognised by absolute zero tolerance of discrimination. The rule of law - I've already talked about it - and so on. So I think there is no doubt that the ten years when the Czech Republic had the opportunity to be a member of the European Union, and the other years that await us, are an exceptional and rare opportunity for the Czech Republic to develop. I will - if the European Parliament approves the Commission as a whole in Strasbourg tomorrow, I will be a member of the cabinet of Jean-Claude Juncker. Among other things, Jean-Claude Juncker has a very significant impact on the idea that smart legislation needs to be prepared for Europe from the European Union, not to add additional burdens and do everything in agreement with the Member States, as the fundamental treaties of the European Union predict. At the same time, it anticipates enhanced cooperation with national parliaments in its political programme. This will also be my role to work with the Czech Parliament as well as with others, and it will be on what. Soon I'll describe what I'll be doing in that assigned portfolio. JeanClaude Juncker wants the new European Commission to be a political commission. That we should not be officials and that we should strike values and goals that are highly political. I'll take the liberty of quoting him. In his program, he said: "I want a Europe that is more ambitious and more ambitious in big things and smaller and modest in small ones. " The way I read it is that it is not possible for Europe and European institutions to manage the lives of citizens, a number of small legislative steps, and sometimes make life difficult for citizens by inventing things that are necessary, but there is a need to focus on great strategic goals. I think that, even in the European Commission's objectives, which Jean-Claude Juncker predicts, and promises to achieve them, the Czech Republic is very much in line with these objectives. Because even Juncker talks about the need to stimulate competitiveness and bring more employment, especially through efficient investment. This is clearly Czech national interest. Furthermore, it wants to support the business climate, a knowledge-based society. To create a European energy union. We too have priority in ensuring energy security, particularly in relation to the latest events that threaten economic security. So we're in line here, too. In its programme, Juncker wants to strengthen European industry to generate at least 20 percent of Europe's GDP. The Czech Republic is 35 percent, so this is the high interest of the Czech Republic to achieve this goal in Europe-wide terms. It wants to strengthen supervision of the banking sector and intensify the fight against tax evasion, corruption and money laundering. It wants to consolidate the common European currency within the framework of monetary union and achieve a favourable trade agreement with the United States for Europe. For the Czech Republic, which is highly dependent on exports, negotiations on an agreement on enhanced trade with the United States are also a very significant step. So these are all the interests of the Čech, which I think are in line, and they need to continue to be monitored. The other parts of the Junckerův programme concern what I will be doing there as Commissioner for the Justice, Consumer Policy and Equal Opportunities Portfolio. In the area of human rights, the European Union will approach - and I hope it will succeed - the European Convention for Human Rights and will continue to work to eliminate discrimination against disadvantaged groups. We must ensure a high standard of protection of personal data as fundamental rights and strengthen cooperation between Member States in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and the fight against corruption. This, too, will be my role as Commissioner, because I have a clear goal of promoting the Institute of European Prosecutor. I'm already getting to what I'm gonna do. That means it's these three last mentioned things. I'm sure you've noticed a debate about when I was assigned a portfolio and there was some criticism that it wasn't a sufficient economic portfolio. The more I get to know him, the more I have to say that my portfolio and what I will do there will affect the economy of the Member States very strongly. There's a lot of talk about it being a portfolio that's too wide and disparate. I only agree with the first of these claims. It's a very wide portfolio. You know, I was the first ever exposed in history to a public hearing before four committees. It's never been this wide before. I do not agree that this is a disparate portfolio because I believe that the area of justice, human rights, consumer policy, data protection and equal opportunities is one whole and is very well in line. So what am I going to do and what are we going to do - I don't want to argue, but what are we going to discuss with the Czech Republic? My task is to simplify the conditions for cross-border business. I have a proposal on my desk to simplify cross-border insolvency proceedings and cross-border online transactions. This should bring concrete amounts as a contribution to the economy of the European Union. My job is to remove bureaucracy in the free movement of people. You know that if someone wants to marry in another state or wants to start a business, they must bring notarized translations of official documents. I want to ensure that documents are mutually recognised and that citizens are less harassed by such bureaucratic obstacles. It is my job to make it to the finals a fundamental reform of data protection. It is a reform that is very necessary because the 1995 pre-Internet Directive is still in force. And we are all aware of how the Internet has dealt with our lives, how it has opened up opportunities, awareness, transparency on the one hand, and, on the other hand, how it can also endanger us by treating our data in a bad way. This is all the subject of a fundamental reform of data protection, which is on the table and which I have to complete. Of course, I must also carry out negotiations with the United States, this will be my first trip to Washington on 11 November, very likely where we will be discussing that the protection of European citizens will be very well ensured even when data is transferred to the United States. I have a number of other essential points, whether they are fundamental human rights, respect and respect, respectively. supervision of compliance with rule of law. I have a fundamental deal with Hungary, where we have great doubts as to whether there is a systemic breach of the rule of law. I have the task of overseeing the issue of discrimination and bringing a new anti-discrimination directive into life. [[14.50 hours]] I think that in a human rights dimension, I should have the ambition to have some extra-European reach and, in a way, follow up on Václav Havel's policy, which I quoted in my public hearing, even with deep conviction. As far as criminal law is concerned, I have the task of bringing into the life of the European Prosecutor's Institute, as I have already said, a regulation amendment for Eurojust, which is a European Agency for Legal Cooperation, and perhaps in the future some adjustments concerning the European arrest warrant. I'm in charge of a whole wide range of corporate social responsibility issues. You know, there's been a lot of talk about me getting into the portfolio of bank bonuses, bonuses that bankers who make risky investments get, and that there's actually a pay gap. I'll deal with this, too. I have a whole lot of areas there that concern consumer protection, let it be the safety of consumer products, let it be market surveillance. So who says today that this is not an economic portfolio is of fundamental importance in this area alone. I have a whole range of problematic points that relate to major or fundamental values, and they will certainly raise big discussions. I have an area that deals with equal opportunities between men and women. You know that the bright Czech media was glossing and noticed that at first I had reserved access to this topic. I was very much thinking about it under the influence of the data and data I obtained when I was preparing for a public hearing. Please know that I had a problem and I have a problem with simplifying the view of women as a weak part of society. I believe that women are a strong part of society and that they rightly claim a greater share of social responsibility. I would like to go in this direction if I promote a policy for equal opportunities between men and women, and at the same time in cases where deficits such as the remuneration deficit are clearly statistically proven, I will come there with the hard regulatory measures that are needed. I won't bore you much longer. I had a need to tell you what I was going to do in Brussels and what there were areas in which we would work together. My portfolio is essentially very much concerned with the agenda of Minister Válková, partly -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u39	I'm sorry, but I'm asking the Chamber of Deputies for patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u40	This is partly about Minister Mládek's agenda in the field of consumer protection, partly about Minister Chovanec's agenda in the field of data protection. I have a whole bunch of things there where we will work with Minister Dienstbier and certainly with Minister Chládek on the Roma issue, respectively. the problem we have in education. As far as the strength of the portfolio is concerned, there are so many cross-cutting policies that I will - I take it with exaggeration - speak to the other commissioners in their work, because I will be monitoring, in that consumer protection, whether consumer protection is sufficiently respected, for example, in the services of telecommunications, energy, in the financial sector, in tourism, so it is very clear there. I would like to, and I am speaking as a Member here for the last time, and in a few days I will no longer be able to speak from the point of view of the Czech politician, but I would like to appeal that we as Čech should take the European Union not as a straitjacket, which trebles us with regulation that we do not want, but that we should take it as an opportunity to apply our own ambitions and interests, as I spoke of them a moment ago, while respecting the interests of others. Let us not forget that the common area of freedom and the common market also envisages sharing responsibilities and common rules. I personally see a common Europe primarily as a joint work for the benefit of the whole. Let us therefore stop making excuses about the Union for dictating us. Let us stop being more brussels than Brusel in the transposition of directives into the Czech legal order. Let's have a dialogue, please. I am also prepared for a dialogue where we are going to argue a little bit, and I am absolutely ready to retreat the moment you convince me that Brusel is coming up with pointless regulation, with the little things Jean-Claude Juncker promised we would not do, with things that will make the situation of the citizens of Europe worse. I'm ready for cooperation, including sometimes excited dialogue. I know I've been talking for a long time, but please forgive me, this is my last chance here, so I'm having a little fun. But I'm coming to a conclusion. I would like to thank the voters for the confidence that I was elected by the Member of the House of Parliament of the Czech Republic. I have worked my mandate most at the Ministry, but I have had the opportunity to work on some of the laws as well, and in doing so, I have seen how difficult it is to come up with quality regulation, how difficult it is to take into account all the interests of society, to balance the proposal so that it can hit the best solution, given the economics and functionality of the new laws, and also how hard it is to answer the question of whether or not to regulate this at all. I asked myself this question a lot in the ministry. Let me thank the President of the YES Andrej and the YES movement from this place for the opportunity to join Czech politics and participate in shaping the policy of the new Czech government. Allow me to thank the Government of the Czech Republic for its cooperation and approval of my nomination as Commissioner. Allow me to thank the Committee on European Affairs for agreeing to this nomination. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues in the House, for your cooperation. I wish you success in your work as legislator. I wish you success, which will be measured not by the quantity of new laws and legislative shrinks. I wish you success, which will be measured by the quality of new bills, as well as the improvement of political culture, which the House is an important co-creator. Anyway, I look forward to working with you from a different position. Ladies and gentlemen, I am leaving with a very strong feeling that my country is on a good track in the sense of a properly set pro-European policy that the new Czech government has established. It includes a strong voice in European institutions as well as the reliability and predictability of the Czech Republic as a partner. I am leaving for the position of independent and impartial Euro Commissioner. However, I am very aware and with ease I feel a strong background of a confident, successful Central European state, my country, the Czech Republic. Mr President, as of today, I am giving up my seat in accordance with Section 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Deputies of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u41	I would like to thank Mrs Jourová for her work both in Parliament and in the Government and wish her every success in the difficult work that awaits her in the European Commission. Thank you. Now the Minister of Defence has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the legacy of the work Burns, my doll is still alive, I dare say a few words about what I have been accused of here, not to prove that I am a man, because I think it is done differently than by speaking from a microphone. [[15.00 hours]] I would like to explain how such a thing can happen. I think it needs to be done. It must be said in advance that the series is being prepared for several years. It's a relatively large investment in tens of millions, and it's also a job for a lot of people. The show was going on, I was running at the time, and I was elected by some of you who were in opposition. Then I became a member of the government and at the same time the whole project was on the move and would really threaten a lot of people even existentially if they were to be canceled. I made a deal with the production, and we worked hard to come up with an escape version where my story line was limited to the minimum so that I could be out of the story, as they say, written out and not run over by a car, even if some of you may want to. [[Laughs of some members from the central part of the hall.]] Then it happened that during a few Sundays, exclusively Sundays, and in a great time span I had completed five or six shooting days. Of course, all other activities arising from my original occupation were immediately terminated with the accession to the government. So much for the factology. And maybe there's one more thing to say. Please, what's on TV is fiction. That's not life. It's kind of adult fairy tales. That's not vile. So I can put it together, the advice that I should play maybe just in fairy tales, although in certain societies, maybe playing in fairy tales is twice as dangerous. 'Cause the better the actor plays the wolf, the more he'll be beaten up on the street for eating Red Karkulka Hoods. [[Laughs of some members from the central part of the hall.]] I think in 2014, it should be clear that what's happening on the screen or on the screen is some kind of fiction, some sort of stylization, and, as I say again, fiction. If we hadn't stepped on this, we would have to expect the judges, the doctors, the cops, the taxi drivers, the bakers, or the women, because there's gonna be some love story where a woman chooses another partner, and then all the women get on the streets and say they're not prostitutes. Of course, what I'm trying to do for our army has a completely different dimension, and you know it very well. That's why I don't think I have to apologize. Nevertheless, I explained it to the more sensitive characters today on the website of the Army of the Czech Republic, and I am convinced that if any of them are affected, they will definitely accept it. But speaking of apologizing, perhaps it should be considered by those who, in recent years, have reduced the Ministry of Defence's budget, who have participated, or at least have witnessed some very questionable transactions, some of which have sometimes had tragic consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u43	Thank you, Minister. Before we go any further, I'll read the note and give the floor to President Stanjur. So today, as of 5:30 p.m., Mrs Miroslava Němcová apologizes from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, and from 15.30 p.m., Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting today, between 15.30 and 16.30 p.m., Mr Milan Šarapatka apologises from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting today from 16.30 p.m., for working reasons, Mrs Nina Nováková apologizes. Mr Stanjura is also registered with priority rights, so you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. Just a short line for the minister's performance. Sometimes someone complains that priority rights are being abused here. So you didn't place that point, you have every right to do that. Those who may have wanted to discuss it with my club don't have a chance to get off. And the Minister, after that point has not been included, will speak in his defense. And those who may have wanted to take a critical stand don't stand a chance. I don't think it's correct. I think the vote was over for today. Apparently it wasn't, obviously somebody here chose their advantage, told us what he wanted to say, and left. That's very convenient. If you wanted to debate this, if the Minister wanted to debate it, he could have voted for that point and he could have given his reasons on that point. I've never seen this show before, so I'm definitely not a sensitive person. It just bothers me when fair methods are not used in the debate. And that's obviously what was here. The minister used or abused his prior rights, made fools of his critics, gave us training that the TV program was fiction, as if we didn't know it, and left. Just to consider - the next time there's a point, either let him in and let everyone else who wants to say something about it, or if you rub it in, then after the point is not approved, please let those who have the right not to speak with their defence and the way of interpretation. I don't want to focus on the matter, I don't want to jump in and debate, because we've decided that this debate isn't going to happen. The minister didn't accept it, and he just didn't forgive his performance. And it's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u45	Thank you. And now Mr. Kolovratník, President of the Election Commission, has asked for the floor, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, co-workers, I'll take part outside the political struggle. It is a standard further announcement of time limits by the Election Commission at the request of certain MPs. So, please, I am declaring a new deadline for the submission of proposals for amendments to the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. The new deadline is until this Thursday at 10:00 a.m., standard for the Secretariat of the Election Commission. This Thursday, 10:00 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u47	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u48	Thank you. I am also sorry that the Minister, although he and most of you did not wish to have this discussion, unleashed it. Unfortunately, only among those who have priority rights. I didn't want to perform anymore. Since I'm one of the few who have that right of priority, I have to respond to his words. I think we all know that a TV show is fiction. But just because we're aware of the boundary, some people in their profession can't say things on TV, even as actors. I can easily imagine a show about doctors where a doctor, probably a negative figure, says: I don't give a damn about the patient, let him die on that operating table. And since it's fiction and an actor will say it, no one can, of course, feel hurt. But probably, as an actor, no real doctor, especially known doctor, would ever say that sentence, e.g. Professor Pirk would simply refuse such a role! He'd refuse to play it with him explaining that it's fiction. Just as most of us probably know the evil vicar from the fairy tale of Dalskabata, a sinful village, and no one in spiritual condition can feel hurt. But I can hardly imagine Cardinal Duka playing this role for Czech TV! I just can't! Just like these outrageous words in fiction aren't meant to be said by the Secretary of Defense. And if the Minister is unable to realize this difference, he merely sadly confirms what has already been said here that he is unable to distinguish between what he thinks and saying the scripts, probably because he doesn't think anything at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-21-ps2013-019-01-000-000.u49	Since I don't see anyone logged in to the debate, I'm going to open the first point firmly placed today. This is about
