ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts (the Environmental Impact Assessment Act), as amended, and other related Laws /Departmental Printing 299/ - Second Reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposed bill will be introduced by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. I will ask that one of the rapporteurs following the debate take their place at the rapporteur's table, either the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Michal Kučera, and the rapporteurs of the Committee on Public Administration, Jiří Petrů, and Jan Zahradník, have prepared themselves for European affairs. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given that it is already quite an advanced hour, I will not go back to the information that has already fallen at first reading here, and I would just say or would like to sum up the current state of discussion of this standard after the committee meeting. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate in all four committees which I personally participated in, which, apart from rare exceptions, was very factual, and I think the very adequate importance of this amendment. I would like to emphasise that after many rounds of negotiations, because this situation is slightly unique - or slightly, rather unique, because we are actually on-line discussing these individual amendments with the European Commission, which is a very specific matter. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] So I dare say that over the past few weeks, from the many disputed areas that we started with above that government draft, we have managed to reach compromise texts in a number of points. Two days ago, or three days ago, those points of dispute, or those points of dispute remain three, today I dare say there are two. Anyway, I don't want to underestimate them because they're significant. There are therefore still two areas of dispute, as I see it, or as I have seen the debate in the various parliamentary committees, or the House Committees -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace so that you do not have to interrupt colleagues who are probably still discussing other issues. Please transfer the discussions outside this topic to the foyer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'm used to not caring about my points, and I'll accept it anyway. The question of the statute for suspensory effect of actions brought by the public concerned and the issue of the so-called transitional provisions, i.e. the solution of existing projects in administrative proceedings, which were initiated before the date on which the amendment came into force. These are two pillars or two areas in which I still see that, despite intensive negotiations and even, say, compromises that have succeeded in negotiating with all parties, there are still different opinions, and they are also embodied in a number of amendments that have fallen in committees and which are likely or almost certainly going to fall today. So let me just briefly remind you of the facts. Since April 2013, there has been an infringement of the European Commission on this issue, and in April this year we were a few days before the withdrawal of the European funds in the volume of about CZK 100 billion, which we were able to avert by intensive negotiations with the fact that we will bring the amendment into force and in effect on 1 January 2015. We all know here that it's obvious that to 1. 1. 2015 will almost certainly not be, it is really just from the realm of theory. And I think that the European Commission is already counting on that today, because of course it has already been kept informed. Regardless of the fact that the European Commission also has online information directly from committee meetings, so I dare say that sometimes, on individual amendments, it is informed before the rest of this House is then in plenary. At the same time, the relevant Directorate-General of the Commission, i.e. DG Envi, discussed the form of those parts of the law which have been held against us in the long term. I want to stress that The Ministry of the Environment, together with the other departments concerned, seeks to ensure that, in the end, a variant is adopted that meets the two fundamental priorities, thus acceptable to the European Commission, has healed the fundamental complaints that have been held against us over the long term within the framework of the infrastructure and, at the same time, not to complicate the construction of the necessary investments in this country. I say fundamentally did not complicate, because it is clear that there are points that can cause certain complications. On the other hand, there are points, new ones, such as time limits for a court ruling, which, in turn, should partially compensate for some of the complications. And I repeat again, in most cases, perhaps of the 12 in 10, we have already reached a compromise text. I would like to say here that by the third reading, which I hope will take place at the end of next week, I am ready to continue the intensive negotiations with the European Commission, which are continuing today or which are taking place today - or today, the last weeks or months every day, literally in daily contact with the European Commission. I have heard many of the parliamentary committees - and I am not angry, of course, it is a policy - an emotional expression about defending Czech national interests and about what will happen when the standard is adopted. Dear colleagues, believe me, I too know very well what Czech national interests are, and I am doing my utmost to defend them. On the other hand, we are members of the European Union, we have entered into it with commitments, we have entered it with certain advantages, and sometimes I feel like we are good European funds, but when we have to fulfil the obligations arising from the directives, we have a problem with that and we are trying to find such a typical Czech way. We are discussing the individual provisions very intensively today, and believe me, today it is more like a legal battle and it is really already a legal disputation, because - I do not want to go into the details, we will probably get into the details within the debate - it is one word or one sentence that decides whether or not the provision or the paragraph is acceptable to the European Commission and, on the other hand, to a certain part of my colleagues or colleagues. Believe me, we have these issues repeatedly in writing from the European Commission, that they are simply unacceptable to the European Commission as they are proposed today in some of these amendments. I really don't want to blackmail anyone. My duty and responsibility is to say here before reading that there are still some issues, and that, as those amendments, some of them will be read, they are going to go beyond what the Commission wants us to do. I am, of course, prepared to continue these intensive negotiations so that we can continue in the meantime until the third reading of these points, which, I stress, remain only two, in my opinion, trying to discuss with the European Commission, even at the highest level, so that when I translate this proposal in the third reading, I could really tell you quite responsibly, because those amendments are raining even in the last real days and hours, there are a number of them, denying each other in something so that I can responsibly tell you whether what will be translated for approval and approved has or has no support and support for what the European Commission wants us to do today. Finally, I would like to say that we all wish, and that is where the negotiations, which are primarily at the Ministry of Regional Development, are strongly involved as the Ministry of the Environment and other ministries, that the real solution to this matter should be the subject of a single authorisation procedure, what this country should have had a long time ago - unfortunately, too much has not been done by the previous governments so far, unfortunately - because it is the main ambition, in the end, to reduce significantly in the framework of the single authorisation procedure of the entire Martyrium, many years old, which is now waiting for the investor, when he is chaining himself to approve the EIA, then the territorial proceedings, then the construction proceedings, and the process lasts in many 15 or more years, the mayors here could, of course, tell and not just the mayors. It is our main ambition that this state of affairs, i.e. this amendment lasts relatively as short as possible and is subsequently replaced by a really very modern legislation, a European legislation that both investors and the public concerned want, that is to say, that is what they all agree on. Give us one administrative procedure with the possibility of judicial protection, with one possibility of appeal, and especially with a quick decision by the courts. Because the main difference between, for example, German or Austrian or other legislation is not that they would have lower public protection, i.e. the civil public - they have faster courts. So I would say that now is probably the main description of the situation, and that is the state of this amendment as part of the second reading after the committee meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u5	I thank the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco and I note that at first reading we ordered this press to discuss the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Committee on European Affairs. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as the House's press 299/1-6. I therefore now ask the various rapporteurs to take up their word, the news reports. First, Mr Michal Kučera for the Economic Committee. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would very much like to introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee. Just a quick comment. The amendments, which were passed by the Economic Committee and, in turn, by other committees, where the course was very similar, concerned two fundamental areas. Some of them were mentioned here by Minister Brabec. The first area met with points or amendments concerning, in particular, the setting of boundary values, which the environmental impact assessment will concern. It then concerned the suspensive effects of the lawsuits and the reciprocity of the amendment. This was one area of amendments. The second area of the amendments then concerns formal and technical errors in the law, which are precisely trying to remove these amendments. Therefore, allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 14th meeting of 20 November 2014 when the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommended that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House press 299 as amended by the approved amendments, authorising the Committee rapporteur, in cooperation with the applicant and the Legislative Department of the Office, to make legislative technical amendments which do not have an impact on the scope of the matter, instructing the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of this proposal, and at the same time instructing the Chairman of the Economic Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on the Environment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u7	Yes, I was going to ask you to do that because you are the rapporteur for both committees. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u8	The resolution is very similar, that is, the resolution of the Committee on the Environment of the 16th meeting of 26 November 2014 which recommended the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted - item one. In paragraph 2, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, in paragraph 3, empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this proposal at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, and in paragraph 4, empowers the Committee rapporteur to make appropriate legislative changes in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u9	I thank Mr Michal Kučer for both the news reports, both for the Committee on the Environment and for the Committee on Economic Affairs. I will now ask Mr Jiří Petr, who is rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development addressed this press at its 16th meeting on 11 November this year and adopted a resolution recommending the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve the adoption of amendments. There are 14, but you have them described in the press 299/3, so I'm not quoting them now. He also empowered me to introduce you to the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u11	I thank the rapporteur Jiří Petrů and now the Member, the rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs, Jan zahradník. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u12	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on European Affairs dealt with the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act at its three meetings and adopted a resolution on each of them which, in some way, drew attention to the relatively significant issue of this proposal. Firstly, in the first one, which was 17 April, the committee expressed serious concerns that the draft amendment to Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts, significantly reduces the process of public buildings in the Czech Republic, and asked the Government to take into account the comments of business entities on the proposal of this amendment. At his next meeting on 8 October, when he actually discussed this proposal for the second time, he asked the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to open negotiations with the President of the European Commission to extend the deadline for the amendment of Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment, without compromising the use of European funds within the current programming period, as well as the new programming period, and called on the Government to prepare the amendment of the Construction Act to enter into force from 1. 1. 2016. He also interrupted the press discussion and set up a procedure for further consultation. Finally, at his last meeting on 20 November, he discussed this proposal for the third time and recommended the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve the amendments adopted, which you will find again as the House press, and authorised the Committee's rapporteur to carry out legislative technical amendments in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department, which do not have an impact on the substantive content of the law, and commissioned the Committee's rapporteur to present a report on the results of this proposal in the Committee on European Affairs at the House meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u13	I thank Mr Zahradník, rapporteur for the Committee on European Affairs, and I am opening a general debate. President Petr Fiala is in favour of the general debate, and then we have duly signed up colleagues for the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that it is late and that we have spent all day discussing the budget, but I would still ask you to pay more attention to this law, which is extremely important and which will have an impact on further developments in the Czech Republic. The government here is under a certain threat of halting the use of European money not only in the field of the environment, but also in other infrastructure projects of approximately CZK 180 billion, pushing us a little bit to approve the amendment of the law. So we are under some time pressure, but the government has known about this problem for a very long time, several ministries have been working on it, which we have also heard here, and unfortunately the result of the entire work is wrong. The amendment threatens jobs, destabilizes the business environment, makes no legal environment, but threatens that nothing can be built in the Czech Republic. And it is to some extent likely, or even very likely, that this is the result of bad negotiations with the European Commission. The Minister of the Environment said that MEPs in committees often asked him emotionally about the defence of national interests. So I ask very unemotionally, but I still ask who and how in this case defends or defends our national interests, how this problem has actually been addressed, how many times, for example, Minister Brabec personally met with the relevant Commissioner for the Environment on bilateral level, whether it was Slovinec Potočnik or Malťan Vella, in Brussels. According to my information, and of course it is possible to disprove them, Minister, it was originally enough for the European Commission to correct the things for which it criticised us, by measures that would have been valid only since 2016. Then why is the deadline a year earlier? Does our ministerial team really have the confidence of negotiators within the European Commission, and isn't what we're standing here right now the result of your ministry's mismanagement or other ministries involved in this negotiation? [[18.40 hours]] As for the fundamental threats and dangers and the problems that lie hidden in the Government's bill, I would draw attention to the three main ones that we see here as citizens' democrats. The first one is a threat of stopping some buildings, not only public buildings, but also private buildings. We understand here the concerns of the public, entrepreneurs and companies that there will be delays, delays in all large public and private buildings, which, of course, will have an impact on business, will bring secondary unemployment and can affect each of us, because we will have to wait longer for new roads, bridges, roads, etc. I don't have to remind you, but for some, perhaps I will briefly mention the estimates of the Chamber of Commerce. Negative impacts on the real economy, loss or non-creating 15.5 thousand. jobs in construction, in the whole economy 30 thousand. places. The impact of unrealistic construction work on public budgets in an estimate of the volume of more than 6.5 billion. Crowns. And that's a pretty sober guess. That's the first big problem. The second big problem is the easy misuse of the signature document, as it is now built in the law. In principle, there is no problem that the amendment extends the possibilities for established NGOs to engage in public decision-making, but we want to draw attention to the ease of abuse of this instrument in a competitive fight. Because, as it says, basically anyone who wants to stop the construction of their competitor or damage it in some way will simply get 200 signatures, file a lawsuit, and can stop the project for months. And the third problem, and the problem isn't small either, is an increase in bureaucracy. The amendment wants to introduce a new institute called coherence stand, i.e., to put it simply, a kind of re-verification of compliance with the EIA. And these are actually further controls, further paperwork, further bureaucracy, and, of course, the scope for new officials, to which the government provides additional funding in the budget. I must say that when we look carefully at the amendment that the government is putting forward here, it is really difficult to understand the government's actions. And it is in direct contrast to what Minister Brabec and Minister Šlechtová say, who promise that a comprehensive amendment to the construction law will apply from January 2016, which the government is planning to present, which is to make all the building procedures substantially faster by merging it all into a single integrated authorisation procedure. But the two steps that the government is taking right now, or the one that they're doing that they're talking about preparing them, they're fundamentally contradicting each other. So it would probably be good to say not only that one day we will have such a law, but in which direction this government is going. Whether he wants to slow down or speed up construction, whether he really wants to bureaucratize this process and complicate it as this amendment shows, or we'll see something better. When the government clears it up, we'd like to make a clear statement. This proposal, not only did the Minister say so gently, may complicate some of the constructions in the Czech Republic. This proposal, of course, complicates the construction of infrastructure in the Czech Republic. And once again, not only for public subjects, but also for private ones. And not only does it complicate it, this amendment explicitly threatens other buildings in our country. Therefore, the citizens' democrats will not support the proposal in this form and we will promote the return of this bill back to committee discussions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u15	I thank Prime Minister Petr Fial. Before we continue the debate, with Mr Roman Váňa's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u16	Thank you, Mr President, and, where appropriate, with priority rights as Vice-President of the Club of Deputies, I would like to propose that we discuss this point today, so that we can discuss all proposals in terms of territorial and procedural terms, even after 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u17	Okay, this is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. I'm gonna try to call in a co-worker from the lobby. I've checked you all out, please, for a new registration. Log in with your I.D. cards to find out the situation in the House. We will decide on the proposal of our colleague Roman Váňa in voting order number 19 when the number of entries will be settled... I think we can put it to a vote. I've started voting number 19 and I'm asking who's in favour of the meeting after 7:00. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 19. Of the present 106 for 55, against 27. The motion was accepted. We will therefore discuss this proposal even after 19 o'clock. I have a factual remark from my colleague, Marek Černoch. He doesn't make a point of fact, okay. Colleague Vladimír Koníček reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u18	Mr President, I believe that you should not have put this to a vote at all because it turns out that there are 26 members of the ČSSD and the Vice-President said it was on behalf of the club, for 26. But that must be two clubs or 40 MPs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u19	Please, Mr. Pojezný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I voted no, I have a yes on high, so I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u21	Okay, I will vote immediately on the objection to the electronic registration and the result of the vote, otherwise I would not agree with my colleague Koníček's proposal, given that it was a procedural proposal which, in my opinion, does not require this concession. [[The debate in the KSČM benches.]] No, I understand what Mr Koníček is referring to from this point of view, which text of the Rules of Procedure, but I think it will heal simply. We will now decide in voting number 20 on the objection to the minutes of the vote on the result of the vote tabled by Mr Pojezný. I started voting number 20. Who is in favour of accepting an objection to the outcome of the vote? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 20 of the present 106 for 99 against 3. Objection received. We will therefore vote again on the proposal for a meeting after 19 o'clock, on the grounds that my colleague Jermanová informed me that this was also an interest of the Minister, the ANO Club. So in this respect, we will vote again. I've started voting number 21 and I'm asking who's in favour of the meeting after 7:00. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 21. Of the 109 present for 58, versus 39. The motion was accepted. So we will continue with the debate that I started, and President Fiala has spoken in it. Another enrollment is Mr Jan Zahradník. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u22	Mr Vice-President, I would like to comment on this proposal as I did at first reading. At that time, the result of my statement and a summary of all the circumstances which indicated against the adoption of the law was a motion to reject it at first reading. The proposal was not adopted at the time, and therefore we are dealing with this proposal today in reading the second. The fact that this proposal is not a good proposal that it is not the one that should, even for a short time, as the Minister promises, resolve the situation with regard to the European Commission and its complaints about our procedure, is that a really large number of amendments are tabled on this proposal. [[There is noise in the hall, the Members are surprised that the continuation of the negotiations has been voted after 19 o'clock.]] Those proposals in committee can be divided into about three species. First of all, such proposals which received consensual support in committees, i.e. actually the ministry's consent. Such proposals, which the Ministry questioned, were submitted a compromise proposal on them and some of them were agreed by the committees, whether by a wider consensus or individually. And then there were amendments to which no consent was found, either from the Ministry or from the various committees. However, I would like to return to the various circumstances of the proposal and also remind you of all the negative things that can be found in them and what can affect our design of the construction activity, the project activity, the development of our cities and our municipalities. It is indeed an obligation to verify the environmental impact at each stage of the authorisation process even after issuing a binding EIA opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u23	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I understand there's been an unexpected decision and you need to make a deal. But if you are not discussing this point, please discuss your matters outside the Chamber, so that Members who are enrolled in the debate can make their proposals. This also applies to consultations at the rapporteur's table. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u24	Even then, Mr Vice-President, that the intention and its changes do not have a significant impact on the environment. However, if the Authority finds out during the territorial proceedings and the building procedure that it might have, everything returns to the beginning of the decision-making process. Question of time limits for follow-up procedures. These deadlines are set significantly in the proposal and may be said to be unnecessarily long. In the draft law, a period of 60 days is laid down for the investigation procedure and for the decision of the court on actions against a decision in a follow-up procedure of 150 days. It is true that the amendments reduce these deadlines to 45 days in the event of a detection procedure and 90 days in the case of a court decision, and these proposals have the support of the Ministry and have also received support, I think, of the majority of the committees they have discussed. Another important moment is the suspensive effect of the action at issue by the public. The motion states that bringing an action has suspensive effect, i.e. everything stops at any moment. A non-governmental organisation, a group of residents equipped with an appropriate signature document, may file an action, thereby halting the process. Investors wait or spend money to keep the project alive. President Fiala mentioned the possibility of using this institute as part of a competitive struggle. It is also possible to recall the possibility of a certain corruption act, strengthening the corruption environment, or speculating about the filing or non-objection of an action or speculation with the instigation or non-instigation of that suspensive effect. That, too, is a nice thing to consider, and it needs to be thought of. The last question that concerns me very much. The significant strengthening of the powers of the so-called public concerned, in particular the NGOs, which, if approved in the form presented here, will give the NGOs enormous power without imposing any responsibility on them. Non-governmental organisations have the right to seek legal proceedings both in procedural and substantive objections to official decisions at any time of the authorisation process. Thus, especially in the follow-up procedure, which is then a procedure, which has already cost the investor considerable funding. He had to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars, if not millions of crowns. The Rules of Procedure initially granted such a right - that is, to bring an action in the public interest - only to the supreme prosecutor or, where appropriate, to the Ombudsman. Yes, the Code of Justice admits that a special law may add this right to other entities, namely the right to bring actions in the public interest, but there has not yet been such a delegation. It would therefore, in the case of this law, in my view, be a very problematic precedent where civil associations having three members, i.e. the minimum number required by the law for establishing such an association, but equipped with 200 signatures, could very significantly influence the process of discussing and approving individual intentions. The action, the non-governmental organisation, does not even have to demonstrate the justification for the danger of the intention for the environment if it decides to enter the process by means of an action. All he has to do is declare that the environment is at risk. And it's impossible to question. The judicial system must act and, of course, the suspensive effect applies. I have therefore focused on the issue of the public concerned in my amendment. As regards the suspensory effect of the action, I believe that amendments are tabled here, which are quite reasonably addressed by this institute, which gives rise to the right to decide, in the course of the discussion of the application for suspensive effect, that is to say, which define the automatic a priori suspensive effect of the action brought. Here, I think the proposals need to be supported. [[19.00 hours]] There are also proposals that regulate a bit of access to requests for consideration of the intention that were submitted before the entry into force of this law. Again, the government's proposal assumes some kind of retroactive effect. We will return to the already discussed intentions and assess them according to the new - if this law applies next year - law in force. There is a proposal which I dare to support, which Mrs Pěnčíková has made and which says that before the entry into force, the proposals submitted are being dealt with in accordance with the old laws. So back to the public concerned. One more thing I would like to mention, if I may. There is another circumstance and this is the definition of the scope of individual projects, which are then subject by law to the process of assessing the environmental impact of the construction. Here I have to say that in the vast majority of the four committees, I think three agreed on a compromise proposal that the Ministry has made and which sets a reasonable limit for the analysis of the proposals made and the plans made. I think that there is also a possibility to support this in the framework of the vote on amendments. And finally, to the public concerned. That's where I'm very familiar with what they say about local jurisdiction. So if we say that an association of citizens with 200 signatures can enter into this process at any time... And the signature document is supposed to have certain legal requirements, which include, first, the brief description of the intention in the title of the document, which makes it impossible to recycle one document repeatedly, and then a list of signatures of the signatures of the signature document, which must state their name, surname, date of birth - and here I quote - the address of the place of stay. And, of course, the autograph. This document can then be used repeatedly in the discussion of the intention both in the investigation procedure and in the follow-up procedure. And I'd like to focus on the institute of residence. I have found the concept of a place of residence and is defined by the Value Added Tax Act, which characterizes the place of residence or the place where the citizen usually stays. So not a very clear definition. Similarly, the Administrative Rules of Procedure, Act No. 500/2004 Sb., which, from the point of view of determining the local jurisdiction of the case in the case of natural persons, defines the place of their permanent residence, i.e. in the case of Czech members under Act No. 133/2000 Coll., on the registration of residents and possibly also the place of residence in the territory of the Czech Republic according to the type of residence of a foreigner. That's under Law No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic. And then here's the law 500, the administrative code, using the term -- just the place of permanent residence. So the place of permanent residence is a kind of clear term for determining the jurisdiction of both the Czech citizen, i.e. his unambiguous registration in the register of residents, the Czech citizen has it in the identity card, in the case of foreigners living in the Czech Republic the place of residence under Act 326. Therefore, I would like to propose - and this is one of the provisions of my amendment - that the local jurisdiction of the signatory be defined by the address of the place of permanent residence in Section 9e, which refers to the requirements of the signature. Then I will read the proposal so that it can actually be heard here. Finally, if we were to approve this, I have a proposal here that would actually force the petitioners to declare at least part of their signatories' local jurisdiction, whether they are NGOs or groups of citizens with 200 signatures. Thus, both a civil society having a three-year history which, according to the government proposal, has the right to intervene automatically and priori, so that the association also has to prove a signature with at least 50 signatures of people who reside in the place of the intention concerned, i.e. in the territory concerned. Finally, in order for the 200 signatures to be shown ad hoc by the civil association to be at least 50 signatures of people who have a permanent place of residence in the territory concerned. I note that the concept of the territory concerned is correctly defined in the draft law in one of the opening paragraphs. So, when we talk about the territory in question, we know what territory it is. That's what this law is talking about. So, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment would have been such that, finally, after its inclusion in the section on the local jurisdiction of the persons concerned, they would have been: the public concerned is the 1st person who may be affected by a decision given in a follow-up procedure in his rights or obligations, the 2nd legal person of private law, whose subject matter is the protection of the environment or public health under the founder's legal act and whose main activity is not entrepreneurship or other gainful activity and which arose at least 3 years before the date of publication of the information on the follow-up procedure pursuant to Section 9 (2) of the Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 and supported by signatures of at least 50 persons who have a permanent residence in the territory concerned or as regards a legal person who is supported by at least 200 persons, of which at least 50 persons have a permanent residence in the territory concerned. Then there is point (j) Supporting the signature is either a document with signatures of at least 50 persons who have a permanent residence in the territory concerned or a document with signatures of at least 200 persons, of which at least 50 persons have a permanent residence in the territory concerned. Finally, § 9e, which characterizes the particulars supporting the signatures, where the first, second and third paragraphs remain unchanged and in the last paragraph in the penultimate sentence the word permanent is inserted so that the sentence reads: Every person supporting the submission of a written notification or appeal shall state his name, surname, date of birth and address of the permanent residence and shall attach his own signature to the signature sheet. I stress that by "place of permanent residence" I refer to the place of permanent residence, both under Act 1333/2000 Coll. and under Act No. 326/1999 Coll., it concerns both citizens of the Czech Republic and foreigners who live in the territory of the Czech Republic. [[19.10 hours]] I think I made the reasoning quite clear here. This amendment has been inserted into the system under number 1716, and when the detailed debate is opened, I will sign up to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I have little confidence that both my amendment and others' proposals would have a great chance of approval, apart from those with the support of the Ministry. I think that the argument, the enormous pressure from the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of the Environment, that if we do not submit to the European Commission, we will lose CZK 200 billion, is so strong that unfortunately many of you will succumb to it. That is why I would like to follow up on President Fiala's words, and at the end of my speech, I would like to propose that this proposal be returned to the committees. Thank you for your attention. I shall forward the text of the amendment to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u25	I thank Mr Zahradník, Mr Zahradník, and before we continue the debate, I will say an apology received. Since we did not anticipate negotiations after 19 o'clock, there are many. First Minister Karla Šlechtová apologizes from 19 o'clock for reasons of work, as is Mr Andrle, Mrs Hnyková, and so is Mr Petr Adam. Mr Kott also apologizes as of 7:00 p.m., Mrs Maxová, Mrs Pastuchová, Mrs Balaštíková and Mr Vozdecký and Mr Vyzula. Mr Babiš also apologizes from 19 a.m. to the end of the day. Now, let's continue with Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Member, you have the floor in the general debate at second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u26	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a law that affects the Czech economy at a rather serious rate. I had the opportunity to attend a seminar on the development of investment incentives and investments of Czech industrial companies in the Moravian-Silesian Region and I expected a debate on the EIA. I've been waiting for the citizens' initiatives to stop them from building. I've been waiting for different groups, as said here, three people, and they block and boycott like that. I didn't get it. I was very surprised that Czech industry captains are not worried about citizens' initiatives. They are even glad that civil society is interested in what is happening around them and is interested in the fact that these industrial enterprises are interested in building something there. What bothers them is rigid legislation. What bothers them is that if they apply or if they have an investment plan, they have to start with hedge management. The preparation of binding opinions and assessment of environmental impact is just beginning. It starts with territorial management, integrated permit procedure, exemption procedure from the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. These are three administrative procedures. For each of these administrative proceedings, an appeal shall be given, for each appeal, to file an administrative action, to file an appeal for each administrative action. You already have nine options to challenge each of these individualities. When they complete all of this, the second round comes: building procedures, water management and permission to cut down trees. These are the other three legal acts which such an applicant must implement and must, in turn, deliver a binding opinion, and, in turn, all these three proceedings have their appeals, have their administrative actions, have their appeals. This is the basic problem that bothers the Czech industry and investors. Here is this lengthy agenda, where every part of it has already been decided and the proceedings under appeal are coming back and forth again. The same arguments are used in other proceedings when they add to the arguments that this is wrongly contested, and this is being extended over and over again. This is the basic problem of today's EIA. All the more I regret that what we are presenting only speaks of being forced by the European Union, as if we were not forced by the Civil Service Act, when we were threatened that we had to, and how long it had been postponed. The Minister has spoken, and I thank you for saying that he is aware of these risks here, and that he says that we will prepare. I'd like to take his word for it, and that you won't grieve by promise, in this case, you won't pay. That, really, very quickly, his ministry, if it hasn't started already, will begin the work so that the appropriate committee will be familiar with any outcomes regarding a unified, comprehensive solution that I believe would be absolutely simple to maintain the appeal so that anyone can sign up so that any citizens' initiative can give their reservations, but that it is one procedure, one decided, so that it doesn't have to expand and drag after six administrative procedures. Minister, I will conclude my speech by allowing you to take your word for it, and I will expect you to inform this honourable House of how the process of drafting the amendment of the law and, above all, of the dates when this law, and I stress, in a single administrative procedure, is being put forward for approval so that simple EIA proceedings can work in this Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another duly signed up for the debate - duly signed up for the debate is Mrs Pěnčíková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u28	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be brief. A lot of things have been said by my colleagues, Fiala, the Zahradník. I'll take it a little bit from the other end. For weeks now, I've been thinking about how we're constantly being told that this is a compromise. What exactly is this compromise? Who's he negotiating with? Is this really a compromise between the interests of citizens of the Czech Republic and the European Commission? I don't think so. It is about the concessions of the European Commission and not about compromise. Excuse me, but I would never use the word compromise for the dictation of Brussels. We are here to defend the interests and rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. That is why we should realize that we are a sovereign state and finally start acting like one. I would like to ask the Minister how many times in the last month he has personally negotiated directly with the European Commission. Officials from our permanent representation obviously didn't understand what a big problem this is, and unfortunately, they can't help us with this. Plus, this is really such a crucial and serious thing that it's all up to you, Minister. As far as I know, they solved the same problem with the EIA in Slovakia. I would therefore like to know if you have dealt with the Slovak Minister of the Environment and negotiated some mutual procedures, but what interests me is that the Slovak amendment, which will enter into force from 1 January 2015, has in transitional provisions that the proceedings initiated and pending by the end of 2014 will be completed in accordance with the current regulation. And I really don't understand why we should have it any other way. But actually, we know. I'll tell you why. Because in our country, it's dictated by insubordination. I'm actually terribly sorry that I'm standing here today and I have to be this critical. Because I regret the Minister. I regret that he inherited the worst he could possibly get from his predecessors. But blindly accepting the demands of the European Union and sitting with your hands in your lap will not solve this problem. We want to meet the requirements of the European Union, that is clear, but really not beyond the directive. And we certainly can't be for any blackmail or misrepresentation. Moreover, as we have been informed, this amendment is to be valid for one year. And I don't believe it, but I really don't believe that the ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Environment, are able to redefine almost 50 laws that apply. And frankly, on a light note, I'm afraid you'll only be supporting gambling in the House, because I'll be the first to bet you won't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u29	Thank you, Madame. I'm registering two more applications for the debate. I'd like to ask President Stanjura if he's claiming priority rights. In that case, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u30	Thank you for the floor. I have a basic question for the Minister - why we added it ourselves, why we didn't just copy what the mandatory minimum was. I really don't understand. I'll join my colleague. Now we have to approve the novel, but we're already working on a new novel that's going to be much better, more efficient, more complex, and I don't know what everything is. We hear a mantra here - we have to accept it so that we can draw European funds. I don't doubt that some in Brussels say that, and maybe some in Brussels mean it. We import that if we accept what the government has put forward, it doesn't matter, because we won't be able to build money. I really, really don't understand. We heard it here with the service bill, we hear it here. I think my colleague Jan Zahradník here has very clearly described the risks that the novel brings. The compromise is probably between the RU and the MMR, or I don't know what the compromise is. I would say that between the various ministries that argue. When I held an OPD I drawing seminar here, where I invited both representatives of the government sector and the private sector, there was the then Minister of Transport, Deputy Director of ŘSD, director of SFDI, then the person in charge of the strategy at the Ministry of Transport, from the private sector all those associations from construction companies through designers, there was one voice: Do not accept this law. One voice from designers, authorized engineers, construction companies, suppliers, representatives of the Confederation of Industry and Transport. Even then the Minister of Transport said: I agree. I say it's a škoda you didn't vote for rejection at first reading this afternoon. You had the opportunity to express your disagreement in the vote, and the votes were not too lacking to reject it at first reading. I think we're going into dangerous territory. Our club will vote against it if it happens to pass by third reading and you want to vote at this meeting at third reading because it will not lead to good results. Perhaps some Brussels official or some Brussels commissioner will tap on the shoulder of either the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Environment, or someone else, as we have accomplished the task assigned to us by Brusel. But what will be the impact? I think many of us have experience with environmental organisations. And I fully support the citizens' position, or I understand the views of the citizens living in that territory. That's perfectly understandable and completely legitimate. But I have an example of how big investors from abroad handle it. A Hyundai automobile factory was built in our region when I was a member of the Regional Council. At that time, the right-wing coalition was in the region, the government ruled social democracy, the Minister of Industry and Trade was Milan Urban. The cooperation was relatively close between the region and the government, and in the end there was no problem with environmental organisations. And do you know why? Since the investor understood after several negotiations that the route was through money, so he set up an environmental fund, he put 20 million into it. CZK, the board of directors were usually joined by those who represented the organizations - and, behold, the territorial proceedings and building permits were going fairly smoothly. Not every investor, not every Czech investor, especially a smaller company, because we are not just talking about public contracts, constructions, has the ability to create funds and from them to finance the activities of environmental organisations. [[unintelligible]] The factory was created, I would say, in record-fast time from the buyout process, when we bought for the state, but it was in the interest of the region, 270 ha from hundreds of owners, to relatively fast obtaining a territorial decision, a building permit, relatively fast construction, and today it is one of the drivers and economic growth. We've just read and received reports every month from industry and the most important, or the main force that drives industry up is the automotive industry, all the companies that move in that industry. Here we give an instrument to many to create the need to create new and new funds so that money can be drawn from it. And I say I'm not against those organizations that represent people who live in that place and often - and it's the fault of designers, some, I don't want to say to everyone that just when they design different routes, routes, etc., they don't take into account the quite logical demands of the people who live there, and then we're really surprised that it's been dragging for years and years, and sometimes the route of communication would be just about 300, 400, 500 meters away. Maybe it would be a little more expensive, but if you add up the delay, where the communication doesn't exist, with all the costs that you have going on in lawsuits that you have to convince the authorities that decide the final building permit, or you're dependent on the court's decision. I think that the principles of the territorial development of the South Moravian Region are an example that does not please us, and now don't take it as a criticism of the South Moravian Region's representative or the Governor. Basically, if what happened to the South Moravian Region happens to that county for years, you stop construction of transport infrastructure for years. But not only construction, you stop preparation, because the moment the investor makes a request e.g. on territorial proceedings or building permits, so the authority issuing the building permit simply stops and writes back, and has to, has no choice: because the principles of territorial development of the region are not in force, we cannot discuss your application. So the delay is made for many years, and then here the Finance Minister can talk about how there is no connection with Austria. Well it cannot, because the principles of territorial development do not apply and according to the reports I have available, so if the regions succeed, they will be adopted in 2016. But that doesn't mean anything. Those who have succeeded once can try again. And it is true that those who obstruct construction for ideological reasons, not because they live there, and that construction is not necessary to be sensitive to the environment and to the people who live there, are given a strong weapon by this bill. And it will depend only on them whether they use it or not, whether they defend it, and I say again and again, for ideological reasons, the creation of buildings. I would like us not to forget that it is not just motorways and rail corridors, that it is not just investment by the state. Many cities, many councils, many mayors know what the problem is in industrial zones, in those areas of industry to place and build a new factory, because the process is very similar and the delays arise in these cases. So I'm going to ask the Minister if it wouldn't be more reasonable to really return to committee and not deal with the risk that it would take two months longer, but we could have the potential damage that the opposition doesn't see, I think many government MPs see them too, the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, and that debate should be factual, not political, because if we adopt the law, then it should be fairly stable. I don't really believe that the plan that there's going to be a new law in a year and a day. Now, I don't think I'd believe a sincere effort by the Minister or Government to actually process it, but you know how long the legislative process is. And the last thing that - and rightly said that one of my previous speakers about how many times he can enter that trial and how often he can extend. I completely agree with the description and the fact that it exists today is the guilt of all previous governments regardless of political coloration. However, I feel like the government is trying to deal with this, but rather messy. Today we have the EU, we have heard the entire existence of the government that the MMR is working intensively on the creation of a new building law, and at the same time ended, I feel that it has ended, commentary proceedings on the draft of the Line Buildings Act, where, by the way, when I read the comments, the ministries are competently arguing with who it belongs to, if it is to do transport, MMR, the Ministry etc. And I think it's a shame it's not coordinated from one place. We just don't care if it's going to be the MMR, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Transport, although it would be logical for it to be the Ministry of Regional Development. But I think it has to be aligned differently. Each bill is different, even the commentary procedures and the reservations are constantly repeated and the problem is delayed unnecessarily. [[19.30 hours]] So maybe one last question for the Minister. How did you match this with the Minister of Transport or with the Minister of Regional Development so that these three standards, which de facto want to deal with the same thing, are they somehow aligned? Is the preparation in any way consistent? Whether the same procedures are for applicants. Or is every ministry dealing with this on its own? And we, who have some kind of ministerial experience, know what a duel of the legal department is in the review proceedings of individual ministries. That just doesn't change with the government's exchange, that's just encrypted on individual ministries, that the Ministry's legal department thinks it has a better opinion than the admin's legal department. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u31	Thank you, Mr President. And now the rapporteur is reporting. You're signed up for the debate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few more words on this amendment. I have already made more extensive comments at first reading on the committees that I am a member of, that is, on the Economic Committee and the Committee on the Environment. However, I would like to hear a few more sentences here about what my previous speakers have said. I think we can see for ourselves how quality law has been passed by the Ministry of Environment to the House. Of course, we can make this view of the quality of the law out of the discussions in the various committees and, of course, the number of amendments that have been tabled. The individual amendments that are being raised here are not, for the most part, the content of the European directive and are purely in the Czech Republic, our national strategy. It is therefore, in particular, the setting of the limits that we are introducing here. And I think that's one of the things that is absolutely necessary. It sounded like it was here, and I'd like to reminisce about it. I would like to remind you, for example, that there are so many discussed parking spaces, because this is a very simple comparison and very clear and transparent. In Austria 1,500 parking spaces. In our country, we are trying to increase the limit to 300 or 500 parking spaces, respectively, by Parliament's amendments. It wasn't in the original proposal. So this is such a concrete example of how we try to simplify this amendment of the law somewhat and allow it to be more friendly for Czech companies and Czech society as such. I understand what sounds from the mouth of both the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Local Development, and that it will arise here, or is already working hard on a single procedure. That is, of course, a good thing, and I welcome that, of course. We need to realise that, on the basis of this amendment to the law, all requests from new ones will be approved and assessed, but also all requests that are currently in progress. If this amendment of the law is not good, it can really freeze these projects for at least two years and, of course, some of that year backwards. I put my three amendments into the system at the beginning of this amendment. Given that the Economic Committee has discussed and adopted by its resolution amendments which are very similar to those which I have put in or adapted, I will not sign up and identify myself with the proposals of the Economic Committee on behalf of me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u33	Thank you. I'm gonna read two more note cards. As of 18.15 she apologizes for today's meeting with Mrs Šánová and on 4. 12th from 9.30 to 12.30 and 14.30 to the end of the day of the hearing, for reasons of work, Mr Lukáš Pleticha apologizes. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. It's not like that, okay. I am ending the general debate. During the general debate, two proposals were made for the committee's law to be renegotiated. So before we go any further, we'll vote. I have an application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up again with your electronic cards. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. Let's take a vote. First I'm gonna read about what, then I'm gonna start the vote. It's a motion for a re-negotiation of the committee's law. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the return. Who's against it? It's vote number 22. Members present are 86, for this proposal 29, against 55. The motion was denied. In that case, I am launching a detailed debate in which I am registering five applications. Mr Jan Zahradník will be the first to speak in a detailed debate. Next, Mr Okleštěk and Mr Pfléger and others will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already presented here in the general debate an amendment concerning the definition of the public concerned. It is inserted into the system as House document 1716 and I hereby subscribe to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I note one point of fact, which is made by President Sklenák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u36	Thank you. Just for the tape screen, please. I voted no on the last vote, and I have a yes on the vote record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u37	Thanks. So only for the log. In that case, we will continue the detailed debate and I will ask Mr Oklešťek and Mr Pfléger will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I hereby sign up for the amendment that I put into the system under number 1729.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u39	Thank you. I will ask Mr Pfléger to prepare Mr Adámek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u40	Good evening, Mr President. Thank you for the floor. I hereby sign up for the amendment, which is inserted under number 1713 in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Adámek and Mr Kudela are now on the table for a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u42	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, fellow Members, I would like to sign up for an amendment with the number 1748. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u43	Thank you. Mr Kudela, now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u44	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, members of the government, I come up with two, three amendments. I put the first amendment into the system under No. 1732, in which I propose that in the basic terms the point which specifies the supporting instrument should be supplemented by the specification that the instrument is signed by at least 30% of the citizens of the municipality in whose territory it is intended to be implemented, based on the number of persons who reached the age of 18 on the date of filing of the instrument and are registered for permanent residence in that municipality. To my proposal, the fact that no matter what number of signatures is required to support the signing document, we will encounter a problem in many municipalities where the number of adults will be so small that it will be necessary for everyone to sign under such a signed document, which will force organizations to collect signatures in different squares and areas that will have nothing to do with the issue. My second proposal is in the same area, changing precisely the number that needs to be collected in order for such a signed document to be taken into account. I propose that the number of signatures under the signature document be set at a thousand. My third proposal, which I put into the system under No. 1762 is based on a lack of specification of authorised persons, which must prepare a binding opinion. In Article 9a (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 9a (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 9a (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 9a (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 9a (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 9a (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 9a of the European Union, Article 9a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 9a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 9a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 9a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 9a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 9a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u46	I formally sign up for the amendment under House document 1759.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u47	Thank you. I do not see any application for a detailed debate or factual comment. In that case, I conclude a detailed debate and ask for final words. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to thank you very much for staying here. I take it you're honoring this law, because maybe you could have been at a concert by now. I've already gotten some hate messages. [[Happy.]] But I'd consider it polite to answer some questions very quickly. To Mr Zahradník. Many of the things he said are no longer in the amendments. They've been repaired. Public interest action, automatic suspensory effect. It is simply no longer strictly in the amendments that have the support of the Ministry, and it is discussed with the Commission. Border limits - a great wish of the Chamber of Commerce. Deal. Skeleton legislation - colleague Luzar. You're right, and you have my word. We've been working very hard on this for months. During the first quarter of 2016, I firmly believe that this will be prepared. It's a question of MMR. Mrs. Pěnčíková. I've been to Brussels twice, about four times before to see Mr Potočnik. Now I'm going to see the new commissioner. We talk to them every day, I talk to them on the phone at least twice a week. Slovakia - a completely different situation. In Slovakia, the very benevolent EIA, the new legislation, can be sued by everyone including natural persons. Now they put in a specific intention and received 150,000 participants precisely because they did not limit the number of participants according to the new EIA that entered into force. We didn't add anything to my colleague Stanjur. On the contrary, we have removed a number of things. What we want right now is really strictly. I can show you in writing, of course. Mantra - we're not building. It's not true. We're gonna build anyway. It is a compromise between the ministries, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Chamber of Commerce. On two points, the compromise has not yet been reached, we will achieve it. The amendment to the Building Act is tuned with this EIA because we are preparing it together. The Lining Construction Act was slightly out of line, and I would like to know for myself the opinion of the new Minister of Transport. We, too, have put in enough amendments and objections within the inter-ministerial framework. I guess that's it. Thank you again for this kindness. Have a good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-03-ps2013-023-02-002-013.u49	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur whether he wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. [[Glee in the hall. Let's hear it across the hall.]] I'm ending second reading of this proposal. I'm interrupting the House of Deputies meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Enjoy the rest of the day. See you tomorrow.
