ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, and Act No. 247/2000 Coll., on the acquisition and improvement of competence to drive motor vehicles and on changes to certain laws, as amended /seminal press 173/4/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received the resolution as House Press 173/5. I welcome Senator Jiří Bis, whom I see here. I prosit that the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Minister, you have the floor. At the same time, I ask that Mr Pavel Čihák be prepared if he wishes to speak as rapporteur of the Economic Committee. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft amendment to Act No. 361 on road traffic and amendments to certain laws, as amended, Act 247 on obtaining and improving competence to drive motor vehicles and amending certain laws, as amended, ensures proper implementation of European Union legislation into the Czech legal system. The proposal completes the transposition of Directive 2011/82 of the European Union on facilitating the border exchange of information on road safety traffic offences and Directive 2006/126 on driving licences and its two amendments. From a factual point of view, the proposal for the provision of basic information on traffic offences in the official language of another Member State of the European Union, unless the offence is a citizen of the Czech Republic, also provides for the exchange of information on the granting of driving licences by driving licences between Member States of the European Union, partial adaptations in the definition of categories of vehicles for which driving licences are granted, and partial adaptations in the definition of training and testing vehicles. At its 10th meeting on 20 June, the Chamber of Deputies approved the Government's bill as amended by the amendments to § 27 para. 5 and § 118a of Law No. 361, paragraphs 2 and 10 to 13 in the part of the first proposal. On the basis of the amendment to supplement § 27 para. 5 it was possible to decide to remove a vehicle illegally stationary on road only if the technical means previously used to prevent the vehicle from leaving the vehicle had been used on the vehicle and was not requested to be removed within 24 hours. In the context of this amendment, Section 118a is also amended accordingly. The Ministry of Transport is opposed to the proposed modification of the disposal of vehicles parked illegally and sees the possibility of risk associated with their acceptance. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. a significant limitation of the possibility of the immediate withdrawal of vehicles which are illegally stationary has the potential to interfere with the functioning of the current parking system in Prague and other major cities and the effective elimination of the existing threat of the vehicle being towed illegally in the reserved zones. [[Places aren't exactly understood.]] On the contrary, such vehicles would for a long time block parking spaces for drivers who purchased a residential card for payment. The possible impact of the proposed adjustment is also an increase in the financial costs of urban police activities. According to the Prague City Police, it was necessary to ensure about 300 to 400 so-called. Other boots and increase the number of city officers by about 120 people. At the same time, the Ministry of Transport did not receive information from the Police of the Czech Republic from which it would be clear that vehicles of the integrated rescue system components are being towed as part of the current modification. The Senate has now returned the draft law to the Chamber of Deputies, with amendments which exempt from the bill only the above provisions on the removal of vehicles which are illegally standing. Although we are aware of the changes which have led to the inclusion of this amendment in the Government's draft road traffic law, while taking into account the above risks, allow me to recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the bill under discussion as approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask if Mr Pavel Čihák wants to speak as rapporteur. Yes. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u4	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to express my position as a positive opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u5	Okay, thank you, rapporteur. I am opening the debate and will be the first to be heard by Senator Jiří Bis, the President of the ODS and then colleague Koubek will be ready. I believe it will be very rational, Senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u6	Thank you, too. Mr President, honourable Members, the justification for the Senate's position is quite simple. The shoe doesn't solve parking opening, it blocks it. That means there's no point in dealing with a situation by causing more trouble than I get. I would have obtained that vehicles, among other things, Members and Senators, could not be towed. I don't think it's appropriate to do that at the cost of crashing the residential parking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u7	Thank you for the very rational approach of Senator Jiří Bis and now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman. I also believe it will be very rational.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u8	As always, Mr. Vice-President, as always. So why are we doing this again? Because if we want to push for a solution, I think it's a good way to do it directly, not hypocritically. We are dealing with this because Mr Huml and with him I do not know how many Members of the five Parliamentary factions, with the exception of our club and club KDU, supported this, and the aim is to prevent Members from being towed. And because we're afraid to say it directly, we're dealing with a general adjustment. Those plaintiffs probably thought they'd hide it. And, hey, everybody noticed because it's just not that easy to hide. So there would be another proposal that sounds so openly - we're against it when they can't give us a shoe anymore so they can't even tow the car away. I think that's a proposal that's obvious, and each of us could be in favour or against. But Mr Huml, the CIA agent specialist, I don't know if he's been told that, he invented that we're going to make a general adjustment, and he suggested and approved most of the MPs. I took with me the junk, which 64 exquisites were saying completely illogically: To get your car towed, there must be a shoe in there for 24 hours. But at that point, you're punishing these people twice, those who've broken a thing because they're gonna pay both the shoe and the tow. [[2.50 hours]] And the whole joke is that they can't give us a shoe, so before the tow, we have to have a boot 24 hours, which they can't do, so that means our cars won't be towed. That may be fine, but it would be better if Mr Huml proposed it directly and did not hide in the general regulation. Whether or not they are shoes is the decision of the municipal government. We in Opava canceled the boots when I was the mayor, and we only used it for the permanent breakers, the city officers had a database on them, and when it took five, they put a shoe in it. But whoever did it, and every once in a while, they park where they don't, especially in a strange town, where they just don't know parking spaces and they need to do something, so they just sometimes commit the offence, and then, in my opinion, it's easier to deal with a normal block ticket. And it's not true that you don't collect a hundred percent of the block fines. Once again, the decent ones who do it sometimes, the block ticket, if you're not exaggerating the amount, they'll just pay. If we want to argue that tows are meant to be because it prevents road traffic, what logic does a shoe have to fix it for 24 hours? Then the car creates an obstacle for the next 24 hours. And if you don't mind 24 hours, there's no need to tow it. Because if it doesn't matter 24 hours, it doesn't matter 25, 26 hours, and now I can keep counting. So the proposal doesn't even make sense. The fact that many cities abuse tows is another problem and should be counted by voters in municipal elections, by those who use it and make a deal out of it, whether for the city or for the private company, because somewhere the city companies are making money off of it, and thus the city's cash register, somewhere a private company is making money off of it. But really. The law says it should be towed if the vehicle creates an obstacle in operation. And now we're saying 24 hours before we pull it off can be. But then the reason will pass. Either this has to be dealt with immediately, that it really stands in the middle of a crossroads and threatens safe operation, or that can remain for the 24, 48 or 72 hours. He can't pay both at the same time. Logically, if we persisted in the House version, perhaps that would be a good thing, because we would never pull back. I think any driver would say with the logic of this defense: If it didn't matter 24 hours in the safety and continuity of traffic, why does it matter 25 hours and why should I pay for the tow? At this point, I propose to support the position of the Ministry of Transport, which, as a resort, is responsible and opposed. And if Mr Huml wants to propose a bill that forbids our cars to be towed, let him write such a simple paragraph. I don't support him because I consider him useless, but at least we wouldn't create illogicalities in the bill. In fact, this proposal deals with the exact opposite, that in the dictum of what I said, you can't pull anything away, maybe it was your goal not to be towed. Then again, just a simple paragraph: cars don't pull away. And we don't have to deal with it for 24 hours. I know there was an indicative vote. It's funny that we've decided whether the obstacle can be six hours, or 12, or 24. Then most chose 24. But it's wrong, and this time the Senate didn't make it worse like in some of the previous law cases we discussed today, this time it really improved. So our club will vote for the Senate version of this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. And now in the debate, Mr Jiří Koubek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u10	Thank you, Mr President. If you don't mind, I'd kindly allow my previous speaker to be corrected. I feel that those Members voted not on 64, but on 63. There were 120 of us here, so there was 60 of us. It was really very close. Moreover, it was on Friday sometime at 3:30 p.m. after the amendment was loaded sometime on Wednesday, the reduced deadline was again approved. And as I had the opportunity to probe on Friday, few Members actually knew what the amendment meant. This is only a slight return to the afternoon discussion that took place here on the subject of shortening the time between second and third readings. So much for fixing it. If you don't mind, I have also read, unfortunately I will admit myself, too late for the explanatory report that Mr Huml has tabled to us for his amendment, although I have listened to him very carefully here, and I have actually acted on it, but then I have read into the explanatory report once more. There, Mr Huml states that the city police are pulling ambulances, cars marked as doctors' vehicles, diplomatic vehicles, and even national police vehicles, which, of course, was a very interesting sentence. I turned to the Director of the Municipal Police in Prague. We met, and he gave me his statement. Let me quote, perhaps some of you have received it, or at least I have a message that it may have been sent to individual parliamentary clubs as well. Thus, the Director's quote: "First of all, I don't know about the case that we would ever pull an ambulance away, because ambulances, so-called in color, with the simultaneous use of a sound warning sign, have an exception from the law to standing in restricted zones, and it is not technically even possible. I also don't know about the case of a tow truck properly marked by a diplomat. If we pulled the vehicles of the police, it was always the vehicles of the so-called civilian version, i.e. normally not recognizable from the vehicles of the ordinary citizen, which was not properly marked in accordance with the binding instructions of the police president, which sets out how the vehicle of the police in the civilian version is to be marked parking in the paid parking zone, which means that the police officer had no chance to find out that it was a police vehicle." So much reaction from the director of the city police to Mr Huml's statement. Let me repeat: "The city police are pulling ambulances, cars marked as medical vehicles, diplomatic vehicles, and even national police vehicles. " One of the fairy tales that Mr Huml here has tried to tell us, and some unfortunately also successfully. To complement what has already been said here from the mouth of the Minister and my previous speaker. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments that will burden the city police, but I would only dare to poke one thing out of this discussion. It sounded here, and now I don't know which mouth it was from, and I wouldn't want to suspect anyone that it's Prague's problem, and that's why we're going to deal with it here in this House. If it is a problem of Prague, if it is a problem of some particular self-government, then let each city and individual self-government solve it. It's a good thing the problem's been brought to the attention. You may have noticed a discussion in the media. It was quite large. As mayor, I must say that this has aroused a great response among elected representatives, that is, under this point, I would say that the purpose has been fulfilled and that there will certainly be something going on with parking zones. What may not have been quite well said here is that if it is a problem of Prague, then why does the Chamber of Deputies transfer the problem to other cities in the Czech Republic. Let me give you an example. It's not just about the blue zones, but it's also about places reserved for disabled people. We all know the situation, who sometimes want to park in the housing estate tonight, and it is not only a question of Prague, but also other places. You circle the evening when you come back from work, places are not available, and as a monster, the only place available is a place reserved for an invalid who has this place reserved for himself. Sorry, but if the city police are calling today that they will not have enough capacity, whether personnel or technical, to secure these vehicles, and we will make the situation worse, that even if they have a shoe and someone gets to this place reserved for the disabled, and he will instead be able to, when he arrives later in the evening, so that the place can be removed so that he can park, then the most he knows is that the police will not be there anymore because he doesn't have a shoe at 11:00 p.m., or so he will come and put his shoe in there, but to the appropriate person who has the space, it's completely useless. I believe that, on the contrary, if there is one, in Prague, the Chamber of Deputies is being transferred unnecessarily to other cities. In conclusion, just a really good one. The MP here had a whole series of touching stories about how the police would tow the car, there's a kid sitting there, and so on. Those are indeed myths, Mr Humle, through Mr President. If your car was towed from the blue zone and you also think it's the American CIA's fault, that's your problem. And please don't pass the problem on to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u11	That was Mr Koubek. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Stanjura, then Mr Adámek. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u12	Let's get back to business. I agree with Mr Koubek. It is a škoda that he did not convince his colleagues at the first vote, because six of their Members supported it. If they were united against us, it would have gone to the Senate without this sticker, or the upgrade, or whatever we call it, the amendment, whether we don't say the sticker, and the Senate didn't have to give it back to us. So it has to be said that two government clubs and two opposition clubs voted in favour of this: one government KDU and our opposition voted against, and if colleagues from TOP 09 didn't deliver six votes, then the 60 was 63 in favour, and it would have been 57 tops, and it fell under the table at that time and we didn't have to go back to it today at 23.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Adámek, then Mr Schwarz, then Mr Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u14	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, fellow Members, I apologize that at this late hour I am not going to be so material again, but my colleague Koubek inspired me to make a small comment when he spoke in his speech that the authorities should put it right. I agree with that. When Mr. Hudeček gets back to Prague, we'll fix it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mr Schwarz, then Mr Urban also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u16	Good evening. I just want to tell you, co-workers, that we're dealing with things. Believe me, I don't know how much you've been dragged away by a car, who can do it, who can do it. I don't know. I'm good with practice -- believe me, it's long overdue, it's working. Let's not talk about it, let's move on. There's really only a mistake in self-government, or who's in charge of tow trucks, or the way you set it up in those cities. Obstacle is clearly given, when the shoe is given, the restraint is clearly given, when it withdraws, is clearly given, and when someone turns it around, it does it against the law. It all works, we have the law. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Milan Urban, on a point of fact, then Mr Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm just a little line for Mr Koubek's speech. It doesn't even concern whether the Senate version or the House is the right one, but I think I'm not the only one who's noticed that there are more disabled people in Prague when you see how many places in the streets are reserved for disabled people. Maybe that's true, but if you look, for example, at a shopping mall, at places that are reserved for disabled people, and you stand there for a while, you find out that one Mercedes is coming and a young boy jumps out of it, then another car comes and a healthy person jumps out of it. Perhaps in Prague you should look at the number of disabled people per population, and make it a little tidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Kováčik has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this subject, as with all the others that have been discussed today, everything has been said in all parts of the discussion here in the House, in the Senate, back here in the House many times. All arguments have been repeated, some have been amplified, some up to twice three times amplified, for example, by the length of the performance. We saw the senators here. They probably have little room in the Senate, so they've been performing here for a long time. I have such a request: Let us finally vote so that at this late hour we can all be dragged away! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u21	Thank you. Mr Koubek - so far the last one on the factual note submitted. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u22	Thank you. I'm the only one who talked about disabled people's housing sites, not business centers. There it is given again by the applicable regulations, how many seats must be disabled. That's two completely incomparable things. I was talking about places on the estate, and I think you all understood me except for one Member in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u23	Thank you. Mr Huml is now duly registered. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u24	Good evening, thank you. I won't let my colleague Kováčik down, I'll be short. There's no point in really extending it. I said a lot here last time. But I have to set something straight. Okay, first of all. The law, my one, as you called it, is a sticker, which is not a sticker, it only concerns the blue zone, and it does not concern disabled people at all. So where the seats are registered to a particular car for disabled people, there's no way to apply it. First of all. I think if we're voting for a Senate proposal, we're gonna allow it to pull cars off empty streets because that's the current situation. We allow it when an invalid is parked in a blue zone and isn't paid in a blue zone, so it's legally possible to pull him out. That's right. We'll go with the hammer on the mosquito. It's like they're attacking the civilian population with artillery. In doing so, we have solved the problem of escalated repression by a close person, because there is a way to solve the offence, even if it is possible to really just a ticket for a wiper. And pulling a car, my friends, is repression. You can't talk me out of it! It's one of the levels of repression, just as we have a reprisal in the use of milder means, so there's repression in the use of tow vehicles. And to be perfectly clear, there's still a roadblock. It can and must be towed where the car is obstructed by road traffic. Where they prevent the traffic of vehicles at a crossroads, where they stand in the ban of stopping and constitute an obstacle. But that's no problem, don't be mad at me, paid standing where there's an empty street. I'm setting an example. And as I'm afraid the problem wouldn't be born - I'm not interested in parliamentary immunity at all. Mr. Komárek even said it in the press. Let us suggest in the second round that a shoe can be given to Members. I'm all for it. It wasn't really about that. My primary concern is that places like garages in the streets are privatized. I have traveled half of Europe now, and the fact is that what we have in Prague is nowhere. Everywhere there are cities that are open to visitors, to villagers who come to Prague. Let's pay, but we're all supposed to be able to park. When a resident leaves and you need to park somewhere near the station, you park everywhere in Italy, in France. For payment, but it doesn't deal with tow service anywhere, like this brutally. No stopping, no road traffic. Please, yes. And that didn't change the amendment again. Not at all. So I wasn't primarily talking about parliamentary immunity, so forget it. The truth is, it was born in the beginning with my letter, and those people sent me those stories, that's a fact. That's an undisputed fact! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u25	I thank my colleague Huml. One more de facto Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u26	I am a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region and I do not want to deal with the amendment of the law because of Prague. I really don't! I agree that cars are often unnecessarily towed from the blue zones, but this is a matter of the Municipal Police Prague and the self-government of the capital city of Prague. Not that he's gonna change here because of this - and I agree with the criticism in principle. This guy's supposed to get a ticket, not tow his vehicle. I totally agree with that. It's not that easy to park in those western metropolises. If they don't catch you, they're helpful. And if you're parked where you don't have it, they won't pull it off, but you're gonna pay for a hell of a bottle. So let's not paint ideals like in the western metropolis when we get there, that we can park wherever we want. Well, we can't! And let's not worry about it by changing the law. I don't know how many of the Embassy members are here. m. Prague, but let them deal with it in Mariánské náměstí, not in the House. It has nothing to do here, because we have 6 245 municipalities and because they may be pulling bad in Prague, so we're going to solve the law for everyone? What kind of solution is that? That's really not good. [[23.00 hours]] And I just don't believe you, Mr Huml, through the President, that you weren't aiming at our vehicles. I think he was aiming. You wrote to all of us, too. There's no need to be ashamed of it. I'm against it, you're against it, there's nothing wrong with it. But don't punish other cities and municipalities because you don't like something in Prague. Run in Prague, become Mayor of Prague, and then you can change it quite simply - both the use of boots and possible tow. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-09-23-ps2013-017-05-009-004.u27	Thank you for keeping the time, Mr President. [[- Three more seconds.]] Mr Humlo's point of fact. He's giving up that factual note. I don't see anyone else, I'm done with the debate. Is the Minister interested in the final word? Mr. Senator? He's not interested. The rapporteur? Not either. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Roads and on Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended, and Act No. 247/2000 Coll., on obtaining and improving competence to drive motor vehicles and amending certain laws, as amended, pursuant to House press 173/4, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 173/5. [[Road Traffic Act]] We will decide in the vote number 118, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 118. Of the present 153 for 82, versus 38. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the Senator. I'm done with point four. And that I should not face the proposal of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs pursuant to Section 54 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 9, I'd rather do it myself and end today's meeting day. Thank you and good night. [[Let's hear it.]] Meet me tomorrow morning at 9:00 a.m. on the show that we approved today with 21 fixed points.
