ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u1	25. Proposal of Members of Roman Sklenák, jeroný Tejc and others to issue a law amending Act No. 211/2002 Coll., on the service of civil servants in administrative offices and on the remuneration of such employees and other employees in administrative offices (service law) /German press 71/ - third reading I ask that Mr Roman Sklenák and Mr Jan Chvojka, Member of the Constitutional Committee, take the position of the rapporteur's chair. We interrupted the discussion of this point on Friday 1 August. The debate has not been closed, so we will continue the debate. I have Mr Kalousek's application here with priority rights, then Mr Okamura. [[Member Kalousek signals the malfunction of the microphone.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, before I give you my word, I'm really going to ask for peace. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u2	Looks like I'm already sounded. Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay. I just want to say that this material, which has been processed at the Ministry of the Interior, contains the political agreement that we have made. The TOP 09 therefore supports the return to second reading today. In addition to this agreement, we will make some amendments, but their acceptance or non-acceptance will not affect our active vote in favour of the agreement. We will introduce you to the defence of these amendments at second reading. Today, only this announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u3	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone with the priority right of Mr Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the service bill. As far as the Service Act is concerned, I regret to say that there will be no depoliticalisation of the state administration. The government coalition of ČSSD, YES, KDU-ČSL, together with TOP 09 and ODS, found a intersection of common interests, in order to continue to manage the state administration by political secretariats. All five of these parties jointly rejected the long-term guarantee of professional government. For the Dawn of Direct Democracy, the debate on the Service Law was crucial not to name functions but to really depoliticize the state administration. The resulting form of the Service Act, agreed by the government parties together with the ODS and TOP 09, means that the occupation of posts in the state administration will be governed by the government, which will be right next to the trough. Politicians have been given the green light, and the expertise will be set aside again. When I look at the outcome of the agreement ČSSD, YES, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and ODS, the Deputy Minister for Civil Service, who is the highest-ranking person, will be appointed by the Government for a period of six years on a proposal from the Prime Minister, which he proposes on the basis of the results of the selection committee. And let's see - the selection committee has five members, which it appoints and at the same time withdraws the same government. If we look at the position below, the state secretary will be appointed by the government on a proposal from the relevant minister for a period of five years according to the results of the selection procedure. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. The speaker is turning to the President.]] I'm gonna ask you to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please lower your voices or discuss important matters outside of this O.R. so that we do not have to scream here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u6	So when I look at the position below, that means under the Deputy State Service at the Ministry of the Interior, the State Secretary, who will be at each ministry, will be appointed by the government on a proposal from the relevant minister for a period of five years according to the results of the selection procedure. And who's involved in the tender? The Minister shall have the decisive say in the selection committee. So let's look at the position below. How does the selection of civil servants take place? The three-member committee selects them. And let us look at the fact that two members of this three-member commission, that is, the majority, are selected by the State Secretary, who has been selected politically, and only selects the three most suitable candidates on a proposal from the relevant director of the department. This means, even the conclusion of the selection procedure within the selection committee is not binding. They don't choose the best. They choose three, and up to three, they choose the only one in agreement with the immediate superior. That's the verge of it! So if we look further, so that even the Special Service Director accidentally doesn't get woozy, so that he doesn't happen to be independent, then he can be called off if he violates service discipline or commits guilty conduct that undermines the dignity of his duties. Of course, I'm missing the specifics of what's really going on. Well, I guess it's this vaguely deliberate, so if an uncomfortable person can be replaced just to be sure. [[10.10 hours]] And we'll also look at the political deputy that President Zeman was talking about. The Minister may appoint two Deputy Ministers and their Cabinets who are not subject to the Service Act. Well, their numbers and salaries are decided by the minister himself under his responsibility. Everyone works as the Minister's political nominees. So the political game is performed here according to the password the wolf eats and the goat stays whole. The government coalition of ČSSD, YES, KDU-ČSL along with TOP 09 and ODS rejected the amendment of Dawn, which we filed in the House two weeks ago, to appoint the head of the state service on a proposal from the government president, to ensure the independence of this position, as well as -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u7	Ambassador, I'm so sorry. I have nothing left to do but wait a little while for everyone else to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u8	I'm almost thinking you're interrupting me at the best moments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u9	No, it's not an intention, it's for your comfort, so you don't have to shout.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u10	Right now, that noise didn't seem like it. All right. But thank you. The government coalition rejected the amendment to the Dawn to appoint the head of the state service, on a proposal from the government, the President, in order to ensure the independence of this position, as proposed in the original bill and as proposed by Rusnokův's government, and even in the 2002 Service Act, which, if we had not adopted this, would have entered from 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the final agreed proposal of these five parties, therefore, it is not about depolitising the state administration, but only about another system of its management by interest groups behind individual political groups. I have heard the argument that there is no position as Director General of the Civil Service in Germany. Even we in Dawn did not insist on this model at all costs. So I'll just add that the German ministries have state secretaries who are appointed for life and are immune to political pressures that, according to the Dawn movement, simply do not belong in the state administration. And it is precisely the immunity to political pressure to take positions when this version of the Service Act is adopted in the Czech Republic. We will now support the return to second reading, because we think that the law needs to be completed as such, and we will also try to insert some of our amendments. After all, we proposed a return to second reading in the House during the hearing. We will wait for the final wording of the law, while I say that if there is no change, the Úsvit movement cannot support the existing form of the agreement of the government coalition ČSSD, YES, KDU, ODS and TOP 09 in the final vote, because this agreement does not contain any of the possible mechanisms for guaranteeing the long-term professionalism of our government. The Dawn Movement is not part of this pseudo-positional treaty to ensure political control in the state administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u11	I thank the honourable Member, and before I invite Mr Petr Fiala to the speaker's desk, allow me to read the apology of Minister Dienstbier, who apologizes for today's work. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise is not intended to be a policy objective, but if the outcome of complex political negotiations is a good compromise, it is okay. We have achieved such a result here. I would like to appreciate the procedure of all the political parties involved and the government coalition, the correct procedure for discussing our proposals. The Civil Democratic Party demanded negotiations at first, and we preferred an agreement across the political spectrum with such an important law. We are very close to such an agreement now, and we appreciate it. Of course, we want to improve this law even more, so we will put forward some amendments which will mainly concern the openness of competitions, but in advance I declare the decision of the Civil Democratic Party to respect the political agreement and support the adoption of this law. That is why we will also support the return to second reading today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u13	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr. Kováčik's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear government, colleagues, have a nice day, still in August. I would like to inform this House that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, its parliamentary club, is not part of the agreement we are talking about, and we do not think that the political agreement and the compromise reached from this political agreement is always the best solution, or is always the only solution to the problem. The proposal that came out of the political agreement still has a great number of shortcomings, according to our court. We are prepared, given that our comments in the majority were not accepted during these negotiations, we are prepared to submit them, to apply them in the form of amendments at the time when repeated second reading will be reopened, with the fact that, as far as today's vote on the return to second reading is concerned, I am just reminding you that, for example, in the first reading of Jan Klán's performance, or at second reading and in the next discussion of this proposal, the KSČM's parliamentary club has repeatedly requested a return to second reading, so that the input material can be corrected very effectively, very effectively, so that we have sufficient room to prepare the amendments, we can also discuss both the overall concept of this law and the specific details which this complex and timeless standard certainly needs. This did not happen, after all, at least today we will formally support the return to second reading. I say that, given that we are not part of the government coalition and right, we feel very free both in the submission of amendments and in the vote for individual amendments, and, after all, in the vote for the final version of the law, as will arise after the vote on individual amendments. We know that the service law is a necessary standard, but we do not think that at this point it is really a service law. Maybe with a little exaggeration, you could call it the law of position. That's the best I can do. And if, in the framework of the amendments, at least some of the things that bother us so far, we can then consider changing our mind. Doesn't look like it yet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u15	Thank you. Now, please hold on to the speaker's counter - Prime Minister - Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Very briefly. The KDU-ČSL Club supports the return to second reading. I would like here to appreciate the opposition's approach and the coalition's view that we have made a gentleman's agreement and that we have kept it. I think it's much better that we agree than to argue here. And the greatest priority and bonus that I see will be a standard that will not fundamentally change in the next parliamentary term. So hopefully we will be able to negotiate with each other in the same way and in the future for such fundamental standards that will affect life in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u17	Thank you. And now, please, to the Prime Minister's speaking desk. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u18	Thank you. honourable Members, Madam Vice-President, I will now speak for social democracy rather than for the government as a whole. I would also like to appreciate the will of the majority of the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies to agree on the form of the Civil Service Act. Social democracy, of course, had its ideal idea of what the Civil Service Act should look like. However, we do not live in an ideal world, and the laws of this kind need to be passed in the Chamber of Deputies with more support than the support of the parties to the coalition. There are a number of reasons for this. I think that, in a situation where there was a matter in the House, which is quite unprecedented, unprecedented, basically agreed fire and water, the government has agreed with a significant part of the opposition, there is a chance for us to clear up the negotiations of the Chamber of Deputies. [[10.20 hours]] We have spent most of our time here over the past few weeks and months discussing the Civil Service Act. I think each of us realizes that there are a number of other problems in our country that the House has to solve. There are a large number of laws waiting to be discussed, many of them have not even gone through the first reading so that committees can start to deal with them. The government's agreement with a part of the opposition will allow us to open negotiations with the Chamber of Deputies. The fact that the law will be passed by more votes, and I think there is a real chance that around 150 Members of the Chamber of Deputies will vote for the law in the finals, giving it stability, legislative stability, even after the next elections to the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's also significant value. We need to realise that there is going to be a revolution in the state administration here. Not that I didn't. This is the most fundamental change in state administration since the establishment of the Czech Republic in 1993. It touches 65,000 directly. people who work for the state. I think these people have the right to have legislation to regulate their working conditions more stable than to be legislation for just two, for three years, and they had to worry that after the next elections, if the government changes, the Civil Service Act will be substantially undermined. I think it's a very reasonable decision, and it increases the chance that the state administration will be able to deal well with the Civil Service Act. The agreement allows the law to start to apply from 1 January next year, something that will help us draw funds from the European Union. Again, we can't distinguish between the opposition or the coalition here. I think that all political parties should be interested in making the Czech Republic a success when it comes to drawing funds from the European Union. Yesterday, the European Commission approved the Partnership Agreement, which is an important step, and now it is our turn. We must approve the Civil Service Act in order to be effective from 1 January next year. Only then will the European Commission approve individual operational programmes and we will be able to proceed from the point of view of drawing funds from the European Union in the coming years. I'm convinced there's no national front here. It is clear that the opposition and the coalition will contend that it will compete, that there will be a number of issues on which we will disagree and in which the majority that arose in this Chamber of Deputies will decide on the basis of elections. But I want to appreciate that there has been an agreement, which will benefit the Czech Republic in a number of parameters, and I firmly believe that it will also benefit the citizens of the Czech Republic. On the basis of today's meeting of the political parties that took place before this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I want to express the hope that we will be able, when we meet here on 10 September of this year, to approve a major majority of the new Civil Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Faltýnek is the last member of the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u20	Good morning, dear colleagues, colleagues, dear government. I will be very brief in my opinion for our parliamentary club. It'll only be one sentence. We consider it a success that, after 12 years of debate on the Service Act, we have managed to reach agreement in coalition and with part of the opposition, and that we have pushed for the fact that the Service Act will apply from the beginning of next year. So much for our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-08-27-ps2013-012-09-001-025.u21	Thank you, too. If no one else is going into the debate - I do not see any application - I am ending the debate. If so, do I ask whether the appellant or rapporteur is interested in the final word? It's not like that. Since there has been a proposal in the debate to return this draft to second reading, we will vote on this proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of returning this draft to second reading. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 107, to which 154 Members are enrolled, for 151. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. So this pattern returns to second reading. For the record, the press is ordered by the Constitutional Legal Committee. This concludes paragraph 25 and therefore the entire 12th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a good day, and I'll see you soon.
