ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-009-066.u1	66. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification Protocol No. 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms /German Press 211/ - second reading I will also ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-009-066.u2	Thank you for giving me the floor. I would now like to present to you another government proposal which, as the President has already said, is being amended by the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I'll try to explain how this Convention changes. It's quite simple. The point is that the Court of Human Rights has recently been overwhelmed by so many complaints about infringements in the Member States that it is more or less difficult to process the entire agenda in increasing the number of complaints. The problem is to be addressed by certain changes resulting from the meetings of the competent authorities which dealt with how to simplify this. If I were to say what seems most important to me about this amendment of the Convention, it is above all a statement that the states themselves have the primary responsibility for implementing the Convention on Human Rights. This means, as a result, that the role of national courts is strengthened. It is based on the fact that states themselves have the most information on how to assess as accurately as possible whether or not there has been a violation of citizens' rights. It is based on the fact that judges of individual courts of their own states best assess all social, cultural contexts, values, the specifics of that country or that country. Because today it is recognised that all cultural specifics, historical and so on are to be taken into account when monitoring compliance with human rights violations, which is what local courts do best. Even today, even those Strasbourg judges should make decisions when deciding on human rights violations, taking into account the cultural values, the history of certain countries. So, in fact, it is a strengthening of the principle of subsidiarity, of the fact that violations of rights should be decided primarily by the places themselves. This is one principle that should strengthen the role of local courts. And it is one of the basic measures that should help to cope with a growing rush of complaints that the Strasbourg court cannot deal with, or is extending time and it is unpleasant. The other changes proposed are more or less of such a procedural nature. For example, since the current system has led to judges who end up with 70 years of age, so their nine-year mandate ends prematurely, it is now introduced that they should not be elected by judges who are... or that the candidate for a judge must be under 65 years of age. The right of veto of the parties to proceedings against the intentions of the Chamber shall be revoked by the power to hear complaints in favour of the Grand Chamber. And some other such minor technical details to simplify and speed up the process of discussing these human rights complaints. But I repeat: I think it is most important to strengthen the principle of subsidiarity and that it should be those states themselves that are able to address complaints with the ability to take into account all national specifics. That's what I think is the most important principle. I find it quite appropriate to support this proposal, which I suggest you do. I don't think anything very fundamentally different from what I've said is really in the convention anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-009-066.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Robin Böhnisch, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 211/1. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-009-066.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. This material was dealt with by the Foreign Committee at its 11th meeting on 25 June this year and adopted the following resolution. Following the justification of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Tlapa and the news report by Robin Böhnisch, and after the debate by the Foreign Committee, The Chamber of Deputies will adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify Protocol No. 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms." It entrusts the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the House and empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-009-066.u5	Thank you. I'm going to ask you to take the rapporteur's seat at the table next door. I am opening the debate, registering one application, and Mr Blažek has it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-009-066.u6	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I will use what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said to make such a general point to be aware of this. What actually happened at European level is that governments and politicians often show how touching they are about the population, introduce new and new rights and, above all, the means by which these rights can be enforced. But the big problem is that the authorities that are supposed to handle them stop prosecuting, by the way, because I'm not afraid to label many of these submissions as a Querulant. Unfortunately, then, there is often no decision about real violations. I would like to point out that this government - but I will be fair, not only this government - sometimes tends to expand, for example, the possibilities of judicial protection, but even administrative protection of various matters. And sometimes it is better not to introduce certain things than to introduce them without working, because in humans, the feeling of injustice may be greater. I would also like to point out that we then complain that the courts may be making slow decisions, but it is often because we are adding another and another agenda to them, without dealing with, for example, how to get rid of the Quernulant submissions, but also whether it is really necessary to provide protection always to those and those rights. And now I'm gonna do a little nudge. When I read in the paper for example, and that is, I'm already going back to our circumstances, when I read, for example, that the Ombudsman had the right to give constitutional complaints, so here I want to point out in advance, that's exactly what I'm saying. The Constitutional Court is already very difficult to deal with the complaints it has today. And we, instead of dealing with whether to limit the possibilities of filing, are going to expand them. I guarantee you in advance that the Constitutional Court will not prosecute again if we introduce this and add another politician called the Ombudsman, who will emphatically demonstrate how he cares for the citizens in these fights with the Constitutional Court. But he doesn't. He cares if he can use the powers he has. I would hate for us to keep adding more and more types of decision-making to the courts, including the Constitutional Court, but they just won't do it, and that makes no sense at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-009-066.u7	Thank you, Mr Member, and I ask if anyone else is reporting for the debate. It's not like that. In that case, I will conclude the debate and ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want the final words on this point. I wonder if you want final words, Mr. Secretary? [[He's not interested.]] It's not like that. We shall proceed to the vote on the resolution proposed by the Foreign Committee. I will ask you, rapporteur, to read the one point where it is stated that we agree as the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-009-066.u8	I thank and repeat the resolution proposed by the Foreign Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify Protocol 15, which amends the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-12-10-ps2013-023-06-009-066.u9	Thank you, and I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 154, the Members present and... [[Minister Mládek, running to his voting device, tripped a step in front of the government bench. Trouble in the hall.]] All right, Mr. Secretary? [[160 Members present.]] Proposition 142, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. Initiating item number
