ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u1	18. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Polčák, Petr Gazdík and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 82/1998 Coll., on liability for damage caused in the exercise of public authority by decision or by maladministration and on amendment of the law of the Czech National Council No. 358/1992 Sb., on notaries and their activities (notary order), as amended /house print 23/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 23/1. Deputy plaintiffs colleague Stanislav Polčák is already at the rapporteur's table. I beg you to take the floor. Chvoj's Chvojka as rapporteur is already here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I will merely state in brief that this law seeks to address certain interpretational difficulties arising from the existing form of the law, which allows the State not to enforce a regression payment from official persons who have caused the fact of damage at the level of the state budget or at the level of the budget of the local authorities. Today's form of law is that it states that the state and possibly other legitimate entities, now meant local authorities, can - and just the word can -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u3	Ambassador, I'm gonna ask you for a moment of interruption, and I'm gonna ask the other colleagues to remain calm. If you are interested in discussing a text other than print 23, please move the discussion to the galleys, to the front so that the plaintiff's representative can speak in peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is the word that can cause problems, which are then reflected in the application practice of the law, that the damage of official persons is not actually enforced except for exceptions. This amendment was therefore also submitted. I want to say that, in principle, it corresponds to the earlier amendment tabled by both the group of Members in the past period and the government of Prime Minister Petr Nečas. I do not have any further complex justification for this standard, because I think it is in my opinion that it is eligible to be the subject of a legislative process and possible adjustments in the context of second reading, but I will at least point out, in my view, the problematic comments of the former Prime Minister Rusnok, because some of the comments given in the Government's position are indeed smiling. In fact, Prime Minister Rusnok and his government argue that the threat of compulsory recovery may cause an adverse reaction, for example, by decision-makers, in fear of the possible consequences of their decisions for them themselves, to make decisions softer or to make purely formalistic decisions. [[18.00 hours]] So if I could read this one of the basic reasons of the government which leads to disagreement with this bill, I think it is another inspirational material for the programme Sure, Minister, or Prime Minister, if such a programme had a continuation. I believe that it is precisely that there is no sanction at all for officials today for their misconduct, that the only victim is the state, that this rule certainly causes the greatest damage to the state in that the official decision-making is de facto inconvenient, unless it is already strictly criminal level. I think that officials should be aware that if they make decisions under the law, they cannot, of course, be subject to any penalties and, at the same time, that the sanctions come at a time when they do not rule according to the law, but, for example, they decide according to a specific assignment. At the same time, I would like to point out that the amendment proposal also knows provisions designed to eliminate, to a large extent, any penalties of hardness, the severity of the penalty, where there are reasons for the damage to the official not to be enforced. Please note that the list is demonstrative and that it should be first of all divorced by later judicial practice. Otherwise, about the government's position - I could contradict him on many points, but I consider it unnecessary, because Rusnokův's government, as you can see, is not in those benches, and I don't know who I would sort of lecture on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u5	I thank Mr Stanislav Polčák and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jan Chvojka to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The translator basically said all the essentials, so maybe I'll just repeat some things just in case. This is press number 23, which amends Act No. 82/1998 Coll., on liability for damage caused in the exercise of public authority by decision or by maladministration and on amendment of the law of the Czech National Council No. 358/1992 Coll., on notaries and their activities, notary regulations, as amended. The press was delivered to the Members on 29 November 2013 and the Government discussed it, I believe, on 20 December 2013. I will briefly point out here that a similar press has been submitted, as the appellant has already said, during the previous term of office, where I suspect it has reached the third reading, where several votes have not been approved. I think it's pretty bad because I think the bill's right. I am sure I agree with some of the Government's positions, I think that there are still some points to discuss, that, for example, the difference between ordinary officials and judges would not be fair, but I fundamentally agree with this law. Surely it is necessary for officials to be more responsible for their work in order to be more in control, and perhaps this amendment to the law would do so. If I remember correctly, during that previous term, the explanatory report even contained statistics, which the press no longer contains. If I remember correctly, only a unit of a percentage of the damage caused by maladministration or unlawful decision is being enforced. So I will ask, or I suggest, that this press go through the next reading with the fact that it deserves some kind of evaluation and possibly some complex amendment, but in principle it is possible for officials to be more responsible for their work and to increase the enforcement of the regression claims of both the state and the local authorities, and I consider this principle to be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Jan Chvojka, and I am opening a general debate, which Mr Radek Vondráček first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, we are coming to this proposal, which is very brief and simple in nature. I will also try to be brief and simply present my position. My opinion is between the government's position and the petitioners' position. It is simply replaced by a word that "the state can recover damage" and will be replaced by the word "must recover damage." It's like we're getting here from one border to another. I agree that the situation is ruthless, that the state does not care about its money and that it is not enforced in a regressive way. There is some false solidarity among civil servants, and this issue certainly deserves a solution. I am not entirely convinced that the rigid rule that the state is obliged to recover this damage in every situation will not lead to any negative phenomena. The petitioners may have been a little lightened by the potential psychological impact. Imagine that the sword of Damoklův will really hang over every clerk. I really know how the Czech environment works, how the thinking of an official works. It can happen, it is real that, in the case of some controversial agenda, financially challenging agenda, there will be a need to circumvent formality in order to avoid some kind of administrative assessment and decision on the very thing that would be questionable or would have been a danger to which official. We cannot automatically rely on the courage that the official, despite this risk, will decide rightfully how he will feel, regardless of whether he would be thinking about any compensation for damage. There is, of course, some demonstrative list of the circumstances under which this rule would not be applied. Here I would certainly intercede to add more items, such as social reasons. I won't hold up. I would like to conclude by pointing out that this issue certainly deserves a discussion, the amendment is desirable, and in any case I recommend that this press go through to second reading and that we continue to address it, for example on the basis of the constitutional law committee. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u9	I thank Mr Radek Vondráček. With priority rights, Mr.... sorry. In that case, Mr Ludvík Hovorka is registered in writing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u10	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues, I have dealt with this law and have found a few issues. I'd like the translator to give me some interpretation, if I see it correctly, and if he realizes there might be a problem. In particular, in Section 18 on page 2, the common provisions on regression compensation, where paragraph 7 states that the reasons for a special consideration for not seeking recovery, are considered in particular to be different interpretations of the legal issue, which was the reason for declaring the lawlessness of the decision or maladministration, by the superior authorities or the courts, or also the fact that the factual findings at the time of the decision, which subsequently proved incorrect or incomplete, justified the issue of the decision in question. I would like to ask the rapporteur, through the President, who will determine what the different interpretation is. It's a loophole, for example, for arms contracts or questionable contracts that are awarded at the Ministry of Health, etc.? Will all these contracts be assessed according to different interpretations? I wonder, and I'd like to explain. Then another thing. The state should be directly committed to this enforcement. That's already been said. To this point, he could have recovered the damage, but for all the governments that were here, no one - the state - did, or I am not aware of it, and therefore I would like to know if, after the law had been amended, he had to enforce, but according to the proposed change - unless there are reasons worthy of special consideration. So it means that the state hasn't demanded it yet, now it will be able to enforce it, but only if the reasons aren't given for special consideration. [[18.10 hours]] It could be considered a genius move. We're gonna flood the courts with responsibilities that can't be met, and we're gonna be off the hook. Because we wanted a good thing. However, the key trick may be to guarantee the impunity of Members or Members of the city councils and to delegate responsibilities to officials. It could also be in county councils. Now, while the cases of reported corruption are subject to review by the courts, if the opposite finding is found, the culprits are most likely to be set free. The trick is hidden in a sentence: reasons worthy of special consideration... Which I'm sure there are many. In the case of judges and prosecutors, the blame would even have to be proven first by disciplinary or criminal proceedings. It is clear that whoever would judge these reasons, the status of the bureaucracy would deteriorate. So the whip will always be on them, because all their decisions can be reviewed by the court. And in the meantime, they can throw them out of work for, like, a loss of trust. We need to find a group of people to benefit from the proposed amendment. And such a group can undoubtedly be politicians. Jim would not have increased his existing virtually zero responsibility, but he would have had leverage over disobedient officials. And the taxpayer would still pay for it. Overloaded courts would be even more overloaded and long-term disputes even longer. Officials would become hostages to politicians and influential economic groups of mafia cut even more than today. A mere court, regardless of its outcome, can destroy a common man. A billionaire won't even notice it, and a group of law doctors will be pleased because it's their way of living. In addition to § 34 para. 1) The State's claim under Articles 16 and 17 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 and the entitlement of a territorial unit within a separate scope pursuant to Sections 23 and 24 to a regression remuneration shall be suspended for a year - three years from the date on which the compensation was paid. Note: It's supposed to be standard statute of limitations under the Criminal Code. I don't know if this is shorter or longer, but in any case, TATRA, CASA... There's no way the civil servant will pay for this anymore. Then I'd just like that explanation. Whoever determines the difference of interpretation, who determines exactly what the interpretation is, and who then the interpretation falls upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u11	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. The next envoy is Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also support this proposal so as to pass through the second reading to address it in the committees. I understand the absolute reservations that are raised here at the address of this proposal, because the issue is not black and white. It's not easy to decide if there's a threat of recovery that you don't want to cause. And these are often cases involving both municipal politicians and, of course, officials at all levels. In preparing the amendment to the Service Act, I proposed that the amount recovered from high officials could be greater than 4.5 times the salary they receive. We're talking if it's going to be 6 times, 7 times, 8 times, or it's going to be 4.5 times. It's not really relevant. What really matters is whether or not the damage will be recovered in this particular case at all. And I am convinced that, contrary to the state that is now, we really need to find an adjustment to make enforcement more successful, because the biggest problem is that even if someone formally answers up to 4.5 times their salary, they are actually being enforced - and it has already been discussed here - there is usually nothing. Let me give you an example that could be quite clear, and this is for example. quite normal to impose fines by different authorities, let's say the Office for the Protection of Competition, for the fact that a contract was not in accordance with the law, and that particular institution will eventually receive a fine that it must pay. Basically, the fine doesn't have a very good effect because the state pays the state. Only funds will be transferred from one budget chapter to another. If such an error is always followed by a particular official or a specific policy, the enforcement of the fine granted, then of course it can have a positive effect on the management of the state's property and not to create so many mistakes that are subsequently punished by the authorities, such as the Office for the Protection of Competition. But I completely understand the comment that was being made, which I suspect is also in the Government's position, and that is the question of decision-making by officials in financial offices, who, rather than making a problem, would be responsible for the damage they could do, will not decide alibistically, and then the damage to the state's property and its budget will be greater by tightening the adjustment. So please don't take my vote, which I support the law until second reading, as a bianca check for this bill. I believe that we will find together, even with the participation of experts from the ministries and those involved, i.e. representatives and officials, a model that will be balanced. But I think it would be worth it to make this proposal forward to second reading. And I am glad that the existing coalition parties do not behave as they were usually in the past, that they assess the individual proposals according to the content, and they support their discussion further, even if they are not the proposals they put forward. I think that both proposals at this time TOP 09 and Dawn or others are considered this way. And I am glad for that, because I think it will help a better atmosphere in this House to really change something and to agree on it rather than to rush ahead with who will make the proposal earlier and to block other proposals just to get some media points. So, in that sense, the proposal has my support to advance to second reading. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u13	Thank you, Mr Jeroný Tejc. Another member of the debate is Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u14	I'd follow up in a similar way. I'll try to say this very briefly. This is about not building a world where, in principle, the Civil Service Act can cause almost impossible workers to move if they don't make a mistake, and on the other hand, we will be terrified that if they make a mistake, they will almost lose all their assets. The result could be that nothing will work at all. That means the officials will settle down, but the best thing to do is never decide anything, because there could be sanctions. I think that our goal should be both functioning government and self-government. That's why I'm following up on a colleague. I will also vote in favour of this law. However, it needs to be thought out, but I might also say in connection with other laws that the House is currently discussing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u15	I thank Mr Blažek. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking who else is applying. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the conversation. The plaintiff's representative is interested in the final word? I can't see. The rapporteur, when it comes to the final word? Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u16	The plaintiff's deputy left, ran away as if he had left his child. So I'll try to represent him. I'll try to answer some questions. I will repeat once again - and it is not in this explanatory report, but it was in the explanatory report of a similar press that was in the House during the previous term of office: out of 100 percent of these damages that will happen on the administrative line, i.e. either an illegal procedure or an incorrect decision is enforced only 4 per cent of the cases. I don't think it's a real number, that it's definitely not a vis Maior event or a different legal assessment, but it's just that the damage doesn't want to be recovered. I know the situation in some cities, and I know how it goes. How many times is the mayor's best friend to the clerk, and he just doesn't get the damage out of some solidarity or friendship, even if the official's mistake is clear. [[18.20 hours]] So the point is, at least in some way, that the regression compensation should be enforced more, because, as it's built today, it's all up to the taxpayer, and the damage compensation isn't being enforced on who's responsible for it. Next thing I know, I have to answer as a lawyer. It's the official, if he makes the wrong decision on purpose, then, of course, under the Labour Code, he's responsible for all the damage, so nothing changes here. If it's careless, it's 4.5 times the average wage. So here we can't talk about the fact that an official should destroy it and that he should lose his real estate and basically the entire existence of life. So it's really some sort of negligence offense. And Mr. Hovorka's question. He asked the rapporteur, whom I am, but he meant rather the appellant. I don't know. The plaintiff's representative has arrived, so perhaps he will answer himself, but the difference of legal opinion should certainly be determined objectively, there should not be merely any subjective doubt. Whoever determines the objective difference, I don't know. Perhaps the plaintiff's representative will answer if he gets some space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u17	I thank the rapporteur, but I cannot do this because the debate has been closed and the appellant is always called upon first, then the rapporteur and I cannot correct it under the Rules of Procedure. I think it will be possible to answer the questions of my colleague Ludvík Hovorka at second reading or in committees. There was no motion to return or refuse. The rapporteur, isn't it? [[The rapporteur did not pay attention to the President.]] Mr rapporteur, there has been no motion to reject or return, and we will therefore address the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. [[The rapporteur agrees.]] The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, I see. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, I believe that the issue of regressive sanctions in the recovery of damages is also closely linked to the overall management of the state's property. For this reason, I would also like to ask that the Committee be ordered to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-11-ps2013-006-05-008-018.u19	That was a colleague of Štěpán Stupčuk, so the inspection committee. Another suggestion? I don't see anyone, and we can vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee? I've started the vote on order number 96 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 96 of 168 for 146, the proposal was adopted. We will now decide in the vote order number 97 on the commandment to the inspection committee. Who is for the commandment to the inspection committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 97 of 168 for 129, against 14. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Constitutional Law and the Committee on Control. The time limit for the hearing shall be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you to the representatives of the appellants, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 18. The next item is:
