ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u1	2. Proposal by Members of Jan Farský, Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of the Act on the Register of Contracts and on the amendment of Act No. 137/2006 Sb., on public procurement, as amended /house print 42/ - first reading I would like to ask Mr Jan Farský to present the proposal. [[There's noise in the room.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, for the second time I stand before the Chamber of Deputies to present a bill on the register of treaties. The previous Chamber of Deputies did not have time to discuss it, yet it gave it several fruitful discussions, which were incorporated into the original draft law, especially within the Constitutional Legal Committee. The law gradually cleared itself into a ten-paragraph text, but the substance of the proposal has not changed. In short, the law states that if public bodies conclude a contract, this is effective only after its publication, and if it is not published within three months of its conclusion, it is viewed as if it had never occurred. The Act thus makes the validity of contracts concluded by public bodies subject to publication of such contracts. It is the provision of groundbreaking, in the opinions of individual resorts most frequently mentioned, but in it is the substance and functionality of the whole design. If this shem were to be removed from the law, all that remains is a bureaucratic pascule harassing the decent and not interfering with the dishonest. Administrative complexity has also been mentioned. Contracts are required to be published in a data-readable format, there is no need to scan or rewrite anything. As contracts are already stored on the computer today, this way also without signatures and stamps will be published. It's not the pictures, it's the data. Open data will allow published information to work, compare, search for excesses, waste, pointless spending, overpriced. The management of public funds will be under the control of competition, opposition, citizens and the media. All these subjects work very motivated and at the same time work free of charge. Thus, the management of public funds will be under really effective public control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u3	Sorry. I would like to ask my honored colleagues to remain calm. Those of you who have anything to discuss, please leave this room. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u4	Thank you. The adjourned discussion of this law by the last House, which I hope will not follow at the pace of this House, has also brought some positives. In the meantime, the register of contracts on the public administration portal has already been launched and contracts have already been published by many entities. Outside the city of Semily, which publishes invoices and orders, data and other cities, such as Opava, Štějovice, Nové Město na Moravě, Ondřejov, Krasov, Zlín, Chrastava, are published. The Ministry of Finance is involved. The real test pioneer is the Liberec Region, where not only regional data are published, but also data from its contribution organizations. 78 Members of this House have added their signatures to the bill. I believe that this is a promise of a quick negotiation of the law, which is neither opposition nor coalition, nor right-wing, nor left-wing, but simply necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, Mr Farský. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just briefly comment here as rapporteur on the press currently under discussion 42 and then report to the debate as well. I would like to say some of my views and reservations about this bill, following my introductory message. This law, press 42, was one of the first to be submitted within this term of office to the Chamber of Deputies, and basically follows up on the law that was discussed during the previous term of office, i.e. the amendment to the Civil Code, which then became a separate law on the register of contracts. Indeed, this law was very much discussed during the previous term of office, and then, thanks to the dissolution of the House, it was not adopted. As the appellant has said, and in principle, the purpose is to increase transparency and prevent corruption by taking place a so-called register of contracts, which should contain contracts in one variant and in the other variant not only contracts, but also orders and invoices which would have to be made public in writing when one of the Contracting Parties would be the Czech Republic, a local authority, a legal person established by law and a legal person, to whom the State, a local authority, itself or in cooperation with others, controls that person. I think the plaintiff introduced the law enough, I briefly repeated it. And now I don't know if I can start criticizing the law a little bit as rapporteur, or if I have to sit down for a second and then come back here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u7	You don't have to sit down, Mr. Ambassador. However, I hereby open the general debate in which you have signed up. I give Mr Chvojka the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u8	So thank you again for the floor. First of all, I would like to say that, in principle, I support this law as much as I supported it during the previous term of office. I understand the principles on which they stand, and I think they're right, which means contracts should be published. They will certainly be under greater control not only by ordinary citizens, voters, but also by the media, etc. etc. [[12.40 hours]] However, I have to criticize in some way because it does not give me this, not only the law, but also the activity of an organization or a group or a association of Reconstruction of the State, which I also support, or I support the nine legal program points. But I think that what this organization has been doing lately is rather counterproductive. So now, about the substantive reservations. As I have already said, the bill itself is not a novelty in this term of office. He's already been discussed in the last one. Print number was 740. The House's early elections and dissolution ended the legislative work, so the law was not fully discussed. Ironically, despite the reservations raised during the previous term of office, the proposal once again contains the points at issue. I must say that, in my opinion, the appellant did not take any account of these substantial comments in the draft law. Another thing I would like to pause on, and perhaps it is also on some position of legislation. I confess that I have been in the House for the fourth year and have not yet seen the law that would have been submitted by the first reading option. The law, if you've been through it, contains variations in the first paragraph. There's a variant one, a variant two. And I am not sure whether this proposal is balanced on the edge of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies or whether it does not go beyond that edge in any way. I would be pleased if the appellants' representatives could then comment on whether they had any assessment as to whether such an alternative proposal is possible, because in Section 86 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Law states that the draft law must contain the precise wording on which the House is to act. And so it does not make sense for us to decide now, in my opinion, a modest legal one, on several variations of different paragraphs. Another complaint. The law contains shortcomings that were repeatedly pointed out by the government and individual ministries in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, which can be summarised in a total of six points. Part concerns the substantive provisions of this law and part concerns the non-binding provisions of proposals and legislative technical requirements. The first group, that is. in factual deficiencies, I count first of all to establish the effectiveness of the contract for its publication in the register and the provisions on the invalidity of an unpublished contract. Secondly, an under-defined area of compulsory persons. And thirdly, there are no limits to the publication of contracts, invoices and orders. As regards the second part of the reservations, i.e. I see, firstly, a lack of assessment of the financial impact of the law on obliged persons and the undefined benefit of the law, secondly the absence of the implementing regulation and, thirdly, a short period of legisvacation. We are faced with the greatest number of reservations, and this has already been said by the representatives of the appellants himself, with the provision for the entry into force of the contract for its publication under the penalty of its absolute nullity, when the contract is to take effect only at the time of publication in the register of contracts and by non-publication within three months it will cease to be valid. In my opinion, and not only in my opinion, this is a major intervention in the existing contractual practice, which does not secure contractual relations between the signing of the contract and its publication. It is not even the question of when in-kind or cash fulfillment is to take place. In addition, it should be pointed out that the new Civil Code, i.e. The Civil Code, which has been effective since 1. 1st of this year, it deviates from the institute of absolute invalidity of the legal act. The proposed binding of the contract on its publication thus goes completely against new trends in private law. In the light of these problems and risks, it is therefore necessary, in my view, to carefully assess whether it is more appropriate to replace the institute of nullification and of binding the effectiveness of the contract with its publication by standard administrative sanctions, i.e. some kind of fine or something similar. Another significant deficiency in the draft law, which has been identified by the ministries in the context of a shortened inter-ministerial commentary procedure for the needs of the government opinion, is a lack of defined range of obliged persons, i.e. entities to which the obligation to publish contracts is to apply. What exactly is this about? The intention of the proposal is to increase public control over the management of public funds in public administration, self-government and other organisations. However, the proposal ignores a number of such institutes and organisations. Several examples: In the case of health insurance companies, the obligation to publish contracts will apply only to the General Health Insurance Corporation, although the public funds are also handled by occupational health insurance companies. Reason? VZP is directly established by law, other insurance companies are established by law. A similar situation arises in the case of contribution organisations. They will only publish those established by law, not those established by law. For example, only the National Gallery and the Czech Philharmonic and the remaining 27 contribution organizations established under the law are to publish contracts in the Ministry of Culture. A number of comments also concern the absence of any restriction on the value of published contracts, or orders and invoices. It is precisely the huge number of published documents that can slow down the effective functioning of public control through the register of contracts. In the flood of hundreds of thousands of documents, problematic contracts can easily be overlooked. The view of neighbouring Slovakia, which is inspired by the current proposal, is also interesting. The Slovak Government introduced limits on the value of published invoices and orders of three thousand, respectively, by its regulation shortly after the introduction of the contract register in 2011. A thousand euros. The reason for this was to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens and not publish documents relating to negative amounts. As far as the explanatory memorandum is concerned, there is a high frequency of criticism by the government as well as a lack of expected benefits. Another problem is the absence of the implementing regulation referred to in the proposal on the practical functioning of the aforementioned register of contracts. With a very tight legisvacation period, i.e. a period of three months to start the register, even from the government's point of view for the creation of the implementing regulation, is a very short time. Finally, I would like to recapitulate that I very much welcome and identify with the main motive of the bill proposal, so that there is no mistake that my criticism is factual and that I do not agree with the principles themselves. I very much welcome this effort and I think it is beneficial to this state and its citizens. However, don't expect us to talk about specificities and small things. However, in this context, I would like to remind you that in 2013, the State budget spent 68 billion in total on non-investment and investment transfers to business entities and non-profit and similar organisations. On that occasion, I wonder whether we should also be interested in knowing these titles and entities of the contract on the basis of which the public funds thus spent are being dealt with. This aspect, from the transparency of contracts for business entities and non-profit and similar organisations which are beneficiaries of non-investment and investment transfers from the State budget, does not concern the draft law in question either. It is therefore a question of further discussion as to why the appellant has chosen a very selective definition of compulsory persons, where a number of bodies, organisations having public funds from the obligation to publish their contracts fall out or are not affected by the draft law at all. I therefore support the referral of the proposal to the second reading, to the constitutionally-legal committee or to certain other committees that will be proposed here to address this proposal and to attempt an adjustment which, in my opinion, will respond to unanswered questions or my identified shortcomings and will try to limit the risks mentioned as much as possible, but will, above all, fulfil the stated purpose of the law. [[12.50 hours]] Thank you for your attention. This was a certain complaint to the law itself, and I would like to try to evaluate from my point of view the operation or work of the organization or association Reconstruction of the State. I am one of those who signed a commitment to cooperation with the State Reconstruction before the elections, and I confess that I agree with all nine basic programming points, and I think that these are points that benefit not only citizens or politicians, but mainly the entire Czech Republic. I repeat, that I should not be attacked in the media that I am an enemy, because the reconstruction of the state today is something on which to stand. When we look into the media, I repeat, I agree with all nine programming points, and as I signed the commitment, I also said that I agree. However, the individual specificities of each proposal need to be discussed. And I think that's the basic problem. The State Renovation Organization does not like having a Member-Sovereign's opinion on the matter in a different way. This organisation would like us to approve the proposals as they put them forward, with the fact that unfortunately I have to say that often their legislative work is not good and that I cannot expect this from us. Let me give an example of my parliamentary life, when it happens to me that some 20-25 people from this organization have already turned to me, the third person doesn't know that he's communicating with me fifth, the seventh person doesn't know that he's communicating with me first. On Monday, Mrs. Jitka emails me, then texts me that she emails me and that I haven't answered yet. Mr. Miloš is calling me on Tuesday to see if I support the reconstruction of the state, and that's how the organization works. I think it could use a little professionalism. I know I'm not the only one who has this opinion, but that a lot of you have it. However, today it is not entirely fashionable to define against this organization in any way. I tried, because sometimes the work of this organization smells like stalking, because after all, texts and emails and calls at night aren't exactly kosher. Thank you for your attention and, if necessary, I will continue to take the floor as rapporteur. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u9	I thank Mr Chvojka. At the request of the ODS MEP, who came during the speech of the Member, and given that we are on a lunch break, I would like to announce a lunch break and at the same time the eight minutes left at the ODS MP's meeting. Please meet me here at 14.30 and we'll continue at this point. At the same time, I remind the members that the Organizing Committee is scheduled to meet at 1:05 p.m. Thank you, and I'm declaring a break until 2:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will continue with the interrupted item, which is print number 42, draft Act on the Register of Contracts, amending Act number 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement. The plaintiff, or the plaintiff's representative, here I am. A colleague of Chvojka's as rapporteur is already here. We will continue the adjourned debate. The first party to the debate is Mrs Jana Fischerová and Mrs Černochová will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u11	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant afternoon and I will try briefly to give you a personal opinion as a Member, but also with the majority opinion of the ODS MEP on the proposal for this parliamentary proposal on the register of contracts. I confess that in my earlier days I was mayor of the twenty-five thousand city, I was councillor of the county, I was also a member of the council of the Union of Towns and Communities and I am constantly in contact with the various mayors of the small municipalities with whom I discuss their problems. And I have to say here before you that many of them have already brought this matter to my attention last year, because I have already worked in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development in the past period, and we have already discussed this with my colleague, Mr Jan Farský, and I am happy to make a brief statement here. Generally speaking, the Civil Democratic Party has no problem at all, on the contrary, with transparency for citizens to publish contracts, but I will say the big 'but' - there are reservations. As I listened to the previous speaker, Mr Chvojka, so I will gradually introduce you to what reservations are offered. A wise man once said: The devil is hidden in detail. And these are the details that I'm going to try to give you here -- some I'm going to repeat, but this will intensify the comments, and some will be completely new. So very briefly on the bill proposal, which, as has been said, introduces an obligation for municipalities, regions and state-controlled companies to publish all contracts without restrictions in the public register of contracts on the Internet. The law is presented in two variants, one of which also provides for the publication of all orders and invoices. The law refers to the publication of the effectiveness of the contract itself. If the contract is not published within three months of the date on which it was concluded, it shall be cancelled from the beginning. That was just to start a statement. I will now go to specific comments. I was intrigued, read both the explanatory report, so I became familiar with the position of the government of Jiří Rusnok, and its position is neutral. At the same time, however, the Government pointed out the issues raised by the draft law, which could, in practice, cause problems, particularly in the context of establishing the effectiveness of the contract for its publication. As we know, the legal interpretation is in accordance with the Civil Code: at the time of conclusion, the signing of the bilateral treaty enters into force this Treaty. So this was said by my previous speaker. This is one of the moments that needs to be stated correctly in the legislative procedure. The government does not like the fact that Members have submitted a proposal in two options. There is also a reference to the law, which is currently from 1. 1. 2011 in Slovakia. I myself looked at the website, which is www.ovorenezmory.sk, so I recommend if you would like to see how it works with colleagues, bratia Slovák have it published under this website, you have the option. In the meantime, the Slovak law, by which the petitioners provide, has undergone several amendments. The same could threaten us, if we were not able to discuss this law properly, to do so in the committees at the next reading. I also looked at the websites such as the towns of Košice, because many Slovak cities have it right on their websites as well, similar to the name of cities here in the Czech Republic. I think that each of you sitting here in the benches today, you have also received the position of the Union of Cities and Cities. We know that the Union of Towns and Municipalities represents a total of about 70 percent of the population of our Republic. It must be given some weight. If I sum up the comments very briefly, it draws attention to legal uncertainty in the event of a non-publication penalty, and also negatively opposes the proposal to publish all orders. I have the experience myself, and I know how it goes in municipalities and cities, where often everything is dealt with only by order, subsequently by invoice, so that there are no mutual agreements between two parties. The Union also proposes to set a minimum limit when this should be published. It's already fallen here, as it is in Slovakia. Previously it was from zero euros, now there are limits higher - a thousand or three thousand euros. So this is important, too. During the last period of the Chamber of Deputies, an amendment to the Law on Municipalities was submitted here, where this was to be affected by the publication of contracts, and there was an agreement - a minimum amount of CZK 50,000. So that's another thing to think about. Now I would really like to conclude by summing up the main reservations I have on this proposal by the MP, or we also have on behalf of the ODS. It encounters practical problems and leads to litigation. No one can predict the consequences of reversing contracts that an official would not accidentally send to the register. It can also happen because I read in these individual documents that everything will go through data boxes, and only the word "send" or "public" can play a role, because in the meantime they can really be in the inactivity of the data box, some kind of blackout, so let me draw attention to that. If the contract had already been implemented, there is a risk that municipalities would face claims for damages or for unjust enrichment. This has also been confirmed to me after the debate with the lawyers. Come in. The scope of the institutions to which the obligation to publish contracts applies is vaguely defined. For example, it applies to VZP of the Czech Republic, although occupational health insurance companies also dispose of public funds. Similarly, it is in the cultural area. The obligation to publish contracts shall apply only to contracts concluded by the contribution organisations established by law. However, there are also contribution organisations which, although not established by law, do manage a contribution from the state budget. In short, there could also be possible discrimination against certain institutions, because it is important to properly treat who all that this applies to, who manages public funds. The law also applies to state-controlled companies - I could name them again, but maybe somebody else will use it - or self-governing bodies and state-owned enterprises established by law. [[14.40 hours]] There are legitimate concerns that the disclosure of any contractual relationship will put these companies at a disadvantage compared to competitors. This can lead, for example, to the liquidation of certain urban companies in the case of municipalities. In Slovakia, following the amendment, they imposed this obligation only by state or government exclusively on controlled undertakings, following the amendment of the Act in 2011, and the parliamentary proposal imposes this obligation on all undertakings with a majority participation of the State or self-government. Another thing I have to say - the practical functioning of the register must be regulated by government regulations. This is not directly given in this proposal, but I think it should go at the same time as this law. There is no precise calculation of the costs required for publication of contracts at city hall. Although we have examples of some municipalities and cities in the explanatory report, it is so oriental and I think that, above all, there will be a large financial impact directly into the state budget. Mayors have legitimate concerns about the increase in administration and especially in smaller municipalities, these are the ones I also talk to because there are a lot of small municipalities in Vysočina, where I come from. I definitely have to say this here. We need to focus on how to deal with this, because I know that the explanatory note says that every mayor in a small village has a computer, has a scanner, has equipment, so it's not at all true, but I know that when I visit them, it's not exactly that they operate these devices. It's not like that. The small mayor, small in quotes, or mayor, must also ensure that sensitive personal data or business secrets are not disclosed. In the event of an error, the risk of paying a penalty to the Office for Personal Data Protection shall be exposed. I know that in larger town halls, triples, doubles, there's no problem, there's mostly a lawyer and all this is solved, but for smaller communities, it's a really big problem. I'm getting close to the end. What will be done if the published contract needs to be amended or corrected, for example, including any amendments? How does the law rule out that these changes will not happen purposefully, namely against the meaning of the bill? How will the situation be dealt with when the contract will not be published in full by mistake, for example, there will be no annexes? What are the risks and penalties, if any, and will such a contract be subject to the same nullity sanctions as for total non-publication? Will leases for apartments be published, for example? I have a few other points to make, but I am really about to come to an end, because I think we have a possibility of passing on the second reading, which I really support on the one hand, but there are questions here and I see it as a solution - because I am also now working in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development - and I am reporting that it will be very good to do a workshop for Members with the participation of lawyers, so that we can clarify some opinions and some details and come to a final agreement. I can say that, in conclusion, I recommend that you proceed to second reading, but I really have the complaints that I have made. This needs to be addressed because there are many institutions and small mayors and mayors to which it is affecting, and it is necessary to prevent it from happening in time that no one will want to be mayors in small villages anymore. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u12	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. The words will be taken by Mrs Jana Černochová. A colleague of Antonín Seďa will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u13	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will freely follow up on what my colleague Jana Fischerová said here, who was mayor of approximately the same city as I am inside the capital city of Prague, in the city district of Prague 2, mayor of me, so I, too, of course, have a number of comments on the draft law on the register of contracts. The effectiveness of the contract, which is linked to its publication and the invalidity of the non-publication contract, has already been mentioned here. I would perhaps just mention that a contract can indeed be nullified if some content or purely formal requirements are not in vain when the contract is published. This may result in a negative phenomenon, which is the chaining of absolute nullity of contracts, which denies the principle of legal certainty and the protection of the good faith of third parties. The provisions on the invalidity of the contract also allow for a situation in which one party deliberately publishes the contract in a secretly incorrect manner, but the other Party nevertheless complies with the contract and in good faith provides performance. It is only later that it finds that the contract is not effective because of incorrect publication, which, of course, will result in economic damage. I think we will all remember the debate from the end of 2013, when we discussed a large amendment, codification, the Civil Code, and we know that the new concept of private law, precisely codified in the new Civil Code, is diverted from the institute of absolute invalidity of the legal act. The proposed binding of the contract on its publication goes completely against new trends in private law. The law, as proposed, brings further uncertainty into the validity of the already signed treaties. Let us remember the relatively current and still media space filling the dispute between the Prague City Council and Metrostav about the completion of the Blanka tunnel. Similar cases could occur with the introduction of a register of contracts. Due to minor formal shortcomings, poorly published contracts may expire. A non-systemically defined group of obliged persons has also been mentioned here. I would perhaps recall - a colleague has already spoken about health insurance companies - the contribution organizations that are set up by law. It applies to those, but they exist, and we all know that, even the contribution organisations that are not established by law, however they manage the contribution from the state budget and their increased control is therefore, I think we can agree on that. Only in the Ministry of Culture, it's about some 27 contribution organizations. There has also been a discussion about the conflict of the bill with the Data Protection Act. I would like to appeal to all colleagues who are not indifferent to what business environment this House here and what standards this House will create, because there are a number of people who come from the business environment. My point is that information from published contracts can also be used for a number of unfair practices. In the most extreme variant, for example, there may be deliberate blocking of the suppliers of the obliged entity, when its competition buys out the necessary production capacity of the supplier. I can state Budvar for all the national businesses. We all certainly have a positive relationship with Czech companies. The national company Budvar operates on an extremely developed domestic and foreign competitive market - we do not want to harm it decisively - and according to the draft law it would be forced to publish all contracts, i.e. contracts for the supply of beer to restaurants, contracts with foreign customers, and this would, of course, undermine the supplier-customer relationship and make it more competitive. I don't think we want that. Unfortunately, the high volume of information published may lead, paradoxically, to a lower efficiency of public control. We will devour our official records - now I speak as mayor - with various information, and we do not know to what extent the information will be clear, how the software will work, which will actually allow interested people who want to see the contracts so that they can do so easily and do not have to become ITs for six months who will learn to control this software in a very difficult way. The same applies, of course, to those who will receive the data, not only to those who will use it. [[14.50 hours]] Insufficient calculation of the contribution of the proposal with regard to the cost to the State, that is, how much it will cost us and what we will eventually save in the coming years. So here, when it comes to quantifying the benefits of the proposed adjustment, the petitioners merely state in general the positive role of public control, but unfortunately they are not concerned with whether, as a result of the adoption of the proposed adjustment, all proposals are also envisaged for the adjustment of funds spent on public budgets, which is such a standard issue that contains all the explanatory reports. I am very sorry that the government is not presenting this standard to us, because these are exactly the issues that I have mentioned, which would probably be explained in the explanatory report and I would not have to lecture them here. When a government proposal is made, it is clear that it is based on a broad consensus, not only between NGOs and political parties, but also between the various organisations involved in the register of contracts. Of course, the fact that we are still discussing this in an accelerated commentary procedure is also completely wrong. We also know that half of all our central government bodies, i.e. ministries, have expressed the view in the shortened inter-ministerial commentary procedure that it would be appropriate to submit a proposal as a government proposal for which the standard inter-ministerial commentary procedure would actually take place. And I miss that. It is missing, and this is probably very important for all of you, and I would like to draw your attention to that, there is no implementing regulation defining the procedure for entering contracts into the register and other requirements. The actual functioning of the contract register is subject to government regulations. Therefore, according to § 86 para. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to submit a proposal for an implementing act if it is to take effect at the same time as the Act. Unfortunately, this has not happened at this time, or at least I do not know that this has happened, and the proposal for this regulation has not been tabled. And, paradoxically, if the law takes effect before the register of contracts becomes operational, there can be a situation where the concluded contracts cannot take effect, which threatens the legal certainty of the participants in this legal relationship. It would therefore be appropriate to significantly longer than the proposed legisvakance, so that everything can be coordinated and prepared. I don't refuse a priori contract register for myself. What bothers me a little is that when reading the explanatory report on this press, the brief explanatory report on this press, there is almost no dry eye, how much good this register will do, and how much savings it will bring to the state budget, but unfortunately after a more detailed study of this proposal, even after the comments are made here, it is clear to you that this will not, unfortunately, apply in practice. And at the end of the day, my one point. I do not like that we are making a policy transparent on the basis of some empty passwords on the banners and perhaps by someone going out into the streets, even if this is part of a democratic establishment. On the other hand, we have a very large government on conditions in the European Union, we are one of the countries that has the largest number of municipalities, municipalities, which grow even further through a geometric series after various interferences or mergers of various military trips, so maybe in time we can work out that we will have something to do with six and a half thousand of these municipalities. I'm sorry that there isn't really a small village here where there is one clerk for three hours, the mayor is unreleased, which is unpaid, which doesn't even have a computer, and it will be difficult to manage the administration of this process. I'm sorry there are exceptions somewhere that, in my opinion, are unfounded. The health insurance company has already been mentioned here - why one insurance company has, General Health, and why others are not, if they are actually something, we can call them a model of public corporations. I believe that in our Czech representative democracy, which I still believe we still belong to, control mechanisms are set up. The opposition is entrusted to the Audit and Financial Committees, this is how it works in decent town halls, among which I rank Prague 2. Citizens have the right to information that is already legalized, there is Act 106 on free access to information. We have a very strict public procurement law. In Prague 2 we make public auctions for almost all contracts, free apartments for contractual rent also auction in auctions. This is all under the scrutiny of our citizens. And I believe that this bill of law is what is essential for public administration to be transparent in the Czech Republic, unfortunately it does not solve, but it solves matters irrelevant and adds work not to self-governments - they are from working to work for the citizens of this country - but it puts on their shoulders tasks, which will only be difficult to fulfil. And I'd be sorry to hear that. I think that the approach of the Civil Democratic Party to this proposal is constructive in that we are ready to talk about these matters in the second reading, but we will place great emphasis on not endangering and restricting the rights of those self-governments which, as you all know, are created from the Constitution of the Czech Republic and which are the first article in the system to which our public is being contacted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u14	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Mr Antonín Seďa will take the floor and prepare a colleague David Kádner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, colleagues, first of all, I must say that I have also supported the proposed law, which is presented, in the past term, in particular with a view to improving the transparency of public administration activities. I personally see the biggest problems with possible corruption behaviour in non-transparable public proceedings, where according to the current law, the lowest supply wins regardless of the required quality of execution and then the additions to the contract will be disproportionately increased by the resulting price of the contract. In its opinion, the current government draws attention to some of the substantive problems of the proposal, which I believe can be eliminated at second reading, as is currently the proposed alternative solution mentioned in the proposal. I understand that Section 3 provides for limited exemptions from the compulsory publication of contracts. I just want to remind you that when the proposal on security talks, this should include both internal and external security. In particular, I am referring to the coherence of this proposal with the Act on Trade in Military Materials. Ladies and gentlemen, the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic fears bureaucratic burdens and proposes that the cost of publishing contracts should be borne by the state budget. There is also a concern about the malfunction or failures of the public portal, and therefore the Union proposes a change from the obligation to publish a contract to the obligation to send it to the register of contracts. Here I'd like to make excuses for the incorporation of these comments into the law at second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u16	I thank my colleague Antonín Seďa. Mr David Kádner will take the floor, Mr Martin Novotný will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the proposal. This is a very long-awaited law, and I also agree to increase transparency when it comes to public procurement or spending. However, as mayor of the Nová Ves municipality in Horách, I must point out that the draft law thus developed brings considerable costs for all small municipalities. I know the detailed management of small municipalities and I know what the money is and what it's not for anymore. In addition, unlike large cities, which have a bureaucratic apparatus, many small municipalities have only one clerk at their disposal. This one clerk has a lot of work to do as part of her duties, and in no way has the time to enter contracts into the system within the time limit set by this law. That is why I see this bill as a populist step, which will only burden the already overloaded authorities. As a solution, I can imagine extending the powers of the Supreme Audit Office so that it can control cities and municipalities without limit. Given that it is a state institution, such control would also have a weight. Unlike populist screams, which will only spread such meaningless bureaucracy. I would very much like us to realise that we have municipalities especially after the new RUD, after 2013, where we have mayors who are unreleased and who perform their duties after their employment, after their work. And the second aspect is that unfortunately, even today it is not obvious that every community has the Internet, which means that there will be another problem at all, especially in municipalities that are bordering, where they simply have problems nowadays, no one wants to help them and by any amplification of this signal, disrupts the signal on the German side again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u18	I thank Mr Kádner. Mr Martin Novotný will take the floor, Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u19	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would perhaps like to draw attention to some internal logic within which we should perhaps follow my court in this House in a legislative process. Personally, I do not want to deal with the details of the law, but I would consider it very important if the logical succession of the steps led to the fact that, first, we would really think deeply about the law on public procurement in the Czech Republic, made a really simplistic and transparent amendment to this law, and only then, and I think that the logic of the hierarchy goes this way, they dealt with laws such as the register of contracts. Maybe I'll try to get into this place alive. Without any evidence, I have recently had a number of signals, especially from the private sector, that the combination of complexity and inexplicability of the Public Procurement Act leads very often to some new phenomenon of blackmail, when in public competitions in the environment of the law, which is so complex that, in fact, there is no one in this world, no public body, no municipality, to be able to meet all its nuances and write any tender so that it is completely okay and absolutely inconvenient, so we are getting a new blackmail phenomenon, when representatives of private companies visit and say that they will possibly submit various objections to public tenders, or they will not submit them when they are not paid for it. I think that every pyramid should be untangled from the top of that logic. The moment we fill the public space with thousands of copies of contracts, thousands of copies of invoices, and we don't solve it really important, we don't simplify the law on public procurement and create an environment where each contracting entity understands the application of this law, then we just multiply the space for public blackmail. At the same time, I want to say that I lack a number of connections in this bill. Now we're having some kind of discussion. I, for example, mentioned at our press conference the continuity of the crisis situations, and they accuse me that the bill regulates the matter, that when there are floods and the like, that the entry into force at that moment is not the subject of the law and the publication. Who knows the complexity of legislation in the crisis situations of the various situations that occur, their individual levels - I would be very pleased if the law worked on this link with this link so that we, as mayors of the community and mayors, really at the moment when we are dealing with such situations, knew when the state is coming and when we have the powers and from what point on we are outside the regime and from what point on we are not outside the regime. The bill proposal is so short and so simple that I am convinced that it cannot solve all the nuances of life and that we will get into situations very often where there will be double interpretations, when there will be uncertainties and when it can really cripple our actionability. I can't imagine his application in the environment of small municipalities, no matter what situations I can imagine at all, and it seems to me that the proposal was written by someone who had absolutely no experience with real life, with real management of cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u20	Thank you, Mr. Martin Novotný. The words will be taken by Mrs Helena Válková, and a colleague Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u21	Unlike previous speakers, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot base my experience on the mayor's experience, so consider my comments more as such a reflection on what is problematic in this proposal and the opening of issues that should be resolved perhaps by some expert seminar or at least by a thorough discussion of the various options of solutions. Since I think that the general debate should be blamed more generally in order to reflect the name of the debate, I will not go into detail. My comments focused on the provisions of § 3 para. 2, i.e. exceptions to the obligation to publish, where I think there are a number of companies in which local authorities have a 100% or majority interest and which can also conclude contracts with non-business individuals. Their activities in the ordinary course of trade can also be carried out in a really small extent, such as the sale of large volume of wood by a municipal company that operates with urban forests, see Chebsko, the implementation of constructions by a urban construction company and so on. On the other hand, I understand because it is those who have experience and, as two previous speakers, Mrs Fischerová and Mrs Černochová, have spoken here, that the register of contracts should not be overwhelmed by a large number of routine contracts. Therefore, I propose to set a financial limit of CZK 100,000, which would be exceeded by the entities referred to in Section 2 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (c), the obligation to publish a contract with the natural person of the non-businessman. It is clear to me that there are, in turn, certain risks to the special-purpose division of contracts on a narrowly sublime basis, but we will never choose an entirely optimal solution in this direction. Without giving here a concrete proposal for amendments to the relevant provisions and expressing, for example, their way of publication in accordance with Section 5, where once again it seems to me that these provisions are formulated vaguely, inadequately, there is no obligation to publish the entire text content of the contract as a whole, including the amendment, so I will focus only on one point in my opinion, a fundamental comment that has not yet been opened here, at least not in the form that I will attempt, and that is a comment on Section 7 - Cancellation of the contract. The current proposal here was critically mentioned. If the contract which takes effect first on the date of publication has not been published within three months of the date on which it was concluded, it shall be cancelled from the beginning. [[15.10 hours]] In such a case, however, although we can discuss this principle, as has already been said here, it remains completely unresolved as to how annulment will be decided in the cases at issue. If none of the parties to the disadvantageous contract is interested in publishing the contract, it will leave it completely unpublished and will still be implemented from the contract, there is no authority or person who would be actively legitimate in bringing an action for annulment of the contract or for determining the ownership of the subject matter of the contract. That is what Mrs Černochová was talking about, so I think we will agree on this. There may also be a case where the contract will be published, but there will be a dispute, typically between the opposition and the coalition in the council, whether the content of the contract has been published properly and to what extent. That is why I generally propose here that we address the plea of invalidity or ownership, whether it is a citizen of the relevant self-governing body, or a taxpayer, a representative, etc. Alternatively, we can also consider the defence of the citizen of the relevant whole, who could claim not invalidity in the administrative court, but the effect of the contract, i.e. publication of the contract in the register. I think we could inspire ourselves, for example, by the Administrative Code of Procedure, where similar amendments to electoral complaints already exist and apply. And here again, I have a suggestion as to what the corresponding wording might look like. However, since I will stick to the principle that we have a general debate and that we still have quite a lot to discuss, I will remain on this general plane with an appeal so that we do not go into specific details and rather openly say that the proposal is certainly valuable, useful, necessary, but there are shortcomings which certainly require longer discussions. čili I suggest that we extend the deadline to 90 days before this, hopefully, amend the proposal to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u22	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Mr Petr Bendl will take the floor and prepare Mrs Olga Havlová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much agree with what my predecessor said, but I was just wondering - through the President I must say that I am surprised that you signed it, the bill. Now you are proposing an extension of the debate in Parliament for 90 days, while we have this material in an emergency meeting for the MPs, an emergency meeting. I think that's all the more reason that this is more of a special-purpose bill that I'm supposed to cover up the essence of the last point of today's negotiations, and that's the law of service. So we're here to talk about something other than what's actually the most important topic of the day, because the government coalition itself is proposing an extension of the discussion on individual laws, and it's not just this one, it's also the previous one for which you voted that it needs to be dealt with for a longer time, and yet here we have it on the so-called. an emergency meeting that needs to be dealt with now. I am deeply convinced and I join those who think that the proposal is rushed, it does not belong in an emergency meeting, the legislature should take a good look at it, because what opens up inside the law for cases, for the possibility of various blackmails, politicizing, scandalizing mayors for individual invoices, etc., I think it will make extremely difficult for the mayors, and today, especially in small villages, we have a problem with the fact that the candidates are somehow full and someone wants to work for the public because we are making up some nonsense about them here in the Chamber of Deputies, and this is one of the important nonsenses. I don't know if any of the translators actually read it, or if he's ever been mayor of a small village or a larger town. Then he'd have to knock on his forehead that this proposal is even here today. That is why I say, I am deeply convinced that this is a purposeful matter for today in order to survive point No. 5 of today's meeting. At the same time, I am deeply convinced that the petitioners are unaware of what will be opened behind Pandořin's box when we will need important media moderators to show us their contracts, etc. I will not say that it might not be interesting, but it will dismantle some institutions insanely and it will be used for individual cases. Not a system solution, but if I want to start defaming someone, I will go after them, both inside and out, say, the public sector, public media, for example. or within small municipalities, when I take one invoice from the Ústecký Region from a small village and take the other invoice from Moravian-Silesian or South Moravian and start training the mayor of one or other village etc. And I'm gonna say, you should have bought that toilet paper for so much or an onolic. I deliberately say toilet paper, it could be about anything. This may concern the repair of the pavement, etc., because the conditions may vary in each village, 200 metres apart, let alone from one region. And purposefully pulled out and criminalized by individual people who work for the public. I consider this nonsense, and I ask the power of all those who signed under, I will say, today's law hearing to postpone it, so that if you didn't vote for it, if you were from the government coalition, maybe you did it in the government, use all the experts to do it and give it proper law hearing, so that we should put things that are appropriate in the system, but not let this material out at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u24	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. The words will be taken by Mrs Havlová. - Excuse me, my colleague, one more point of fact, Mrs Válková, I apologize. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u25	Really just a flash technical remark, thank you, Mr. Vice-President. However, I certainly do not join those who should be labeled, as my previous speaker indirectly indicated, those who would buy this law and do not wish to refer it to further discussion. I think the essence is absolutely correct. Within the extended period of 90 days, we have the possibility to amend the law in order to fulfil its purpose, and I also assume that the petitioners, for example Mr Farský, who is mayor, have taken advantage of his experience in a proposal which, as I confessed, I do not have, but I do not see the problem of why this law should be described as such a flawed law that we should not deal with it in the general debate and that it should not be the subject of our negotiations at all. So if that's how someone understood my performance, it was definitely not meant to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u26	Thank you for keeping time. Now, then, Mrs Olga Havlová, and a colleague of Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see the register of contracts as a representative of the municipality in two levels. On the one hand, the possibility of getting into contracts, possibly orders, invoices that are sometimes deliberately classified, especially in small municipalities, especially where there are neither municipal councils and it is possible to circumvent the law. Most of the time, some of the contracts will not even be found out by the representatives themselves, and therefore there is no control. It said here that the number of contracts published would be a brake, but that's not an argument. Because none of you will be able to read all the contracts, and they will be able to find the one that interests them and which they are interested in at the moment, whether it concerns the contract, order or invoice. On the other hand, however, we are in a situation where this register will be valid, with what means, eventually the impact and the threat of sanctions. It is unacceptable for small municipalities to add jobs to officials and to pay flat-rate fees for the register from the municipal funds. If this law were to be adopted, it must address not only the strengthening of the administration but, above all, how to finance all this. Perhaps it would be worth considering whether small municipalities would not be completely exempted from this obligation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u28	Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová. The words will be taken by Mr Jan Zahradník, last in writing at this time. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u29	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the law is evidently, and it has already been said here, from the workshop of the State Reconstruction Initiative. It is clear that this activity, this initiative, in your efforts to eradicate corruption and all the unfortunate phenomena of our society, will supply other and other proposals, and those of you who have signed its call will, under pressure, support these laws, whether you like them or not. I did not sign my soul on this initiative, so I can speak as a free man and I can say my opinion regardless of anyone quoting my signature and confronting me with it. I would like to express myself, like my previous speakers, on the issue of impact on individual municipalities. I always say that I consider the municipal government to be the foundation of civil society. It has actually worked for us for more than a half-century and has taken root in the awareness of our citizens. Even 40 years of communism have failed to eradicate the awareness of the administration of their affairs in the municipalities. The mayors are elected by their citizens in municipal elections, and I would in no way want to underestimate their abilities. I think that where there's just no Internet, they can set it up, and where, say, the age of the mayor doesn't allow fast Internet management, someone from the young people can come and help the mayor. What bothers me is that when I met the mayor, I often heard them begging for what the state actually gives them. They often complained that their activities were largely complicated, making it difficult for them to carry out their duties towards the citizens of their communities. Mayors in small villages are, I will use adjectives, ordinary people who manage municipal finances to a large extent with such a common gentleness, austerity. Here, Mr Vice-President, I would allow myself, by your means, to refer on behalf of the mayors to what Mrs Havlová said. As if it were normal that contracts in small municipalities are kept secret because there is some unfair treatment of municipal resources. I can say that's not the case. I was the commander of the South Bohemia Region for eight years and we were actually starting to control the financing of municipalities at the regional level. I must say that the defects that we were recording were largely due to a certain inability to deal with the technical side of the matter at the time. It was rarely out of bad intentions. And when that happens to be the case, then there are tools to expose and punish this intent. In conclusion, I would like to say that we, as the House, are, in fact, part of the authorities of the state government. We're in the same boat with the mayors. So please consider whether we want to complicate their lives and whether we want to adopt such laws without setting a limit that would allow us to say: yes, in small towns, we will not burden their mayors with fulfillment. Of course, large communities will be able to handle this. For small communities, I ask for your indulgence and common sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u30	I thank my colleague Zahradník. I had an interest in ending the debate. This is not the case, I have entered other candidates, including priority rights, but Mrs Věra Jourová's point of fact is preferred. Please, colleague, you have the floor on a point of fact. Then, with priority rights, Mr Stanjura's colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can certainly fit in a short time. I would like to say that what we want from worries, or public authorities, is not something we want from the state. We want it for the public. We want it for the public in the context of transparency, and it costs something. I would like to say that we will initiate an amendment in order to take further account of the fact that in the Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority must publish subcontractors and final prices, so that we will unite this. And this is where the obligation to publish on the contracting authority's profile is cut off. The law doesn't just deal with corruption, it does solve savings. I drew up the impact of the Act, which was adopted in Slovakia in 2011, and there I read that in the first year following the adoption of the Act the costs of public contracts fell by a whole third and for transport constructions by up to half. Mrs. former Prime Minister Radičová announced that only the Office of the Government had a savings of 3.5 miles in the first year. EUR. So let's just measure that it's going to cost something, whether in human power or in money, and that it's going to save something, too. Of course, the ethos of transparency and the fight against corruption is also important here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u32	Thank you, Mrs Jourová, for keeping the time. Words will be taken with priority rights by Mr. Chairman of ODS Stanjura. A colleague Adamec will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u33	Maybe I'd start by picking up on a performance by a colleague who spoke a while ago. It might be worth asking in Slovakia how often and who goes to the register. I guarantee you that the public will not be involved, but lobbyists and it will be one of the activities for which companies and competitors, especially those competing with urban companies, will be ordered. They're gonna go there a lot more often than the public, because all they have to do is publish it in the city hall. The people who are in that city know very well whether they buy it overpriced or overpriced and may not have proof to do so at the other end of the Republic. [[There's noise in the room.]] We are a large political party that has hundreds of mayors and mayors, and it is not just the capital of Prague, the statutory city or the so-called Trojan community, which is 205. From the statistics that everyone has at their disposal, we have a total of almost 500 municipalities with less than a hundred inhabitants. If we count about 9,000 returns from the RUD, and I say let's take it roughly, because every year it's a little different, these municipalities, these 500 municipalities have total contributions from our taxes 900 thousand per year. So let's think about what it's like to spend tens, hundreds of thousands or millions here. If I take one average salary in the Czech Republic, I'm going to round it down and say it's CZK 24,000, and I'm going to count the contributions, this community, if it has one employee, I'm not talking about the mayor right now, it's going to issue 382,000 per salary, and out of 900 thousand it's going to be 512,000. No computer, no office hours, no apparatus. And we say, in order for this to be transparent, poor Mr. Mayor or one workforce must send a copy of the contract somewhere so that the contract is effective. The translator knows I've been arguing with him about this for months or years, and today he said a sentence, he probably meant it - if I misunderstood it, don't take it as an attack, but as an explanation - that it might not be a signed contract. It is sufficient in theoretical form without signature and stamp. I don't believe that. Who will control that what is exposed is really the final version? And the final version is really just the signature. The city council will make a slight change, and the city council will make a slight change, even though, of course, the contract is in word or something else in the background materials. Do not live in the fantasies of the great town halls as they live in small villages. Consider those of you who want to vote in favour of this, second reading support for the exception for small municipalities and let us discuss what a small community is. Whether it's by type of activity, by population or the like. We have 1,056 municipalities that have between 100 and 200 inhabitants. One-zero-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. That's with the first 1,500 municipalities that get one if I just mention the top line, they have 100 or 200, 900,000 or 1 million. 800,000 a year, including all the money for the mayor's fees, the deputies, any officials. [[unintelligible]] 1,500 municipalities. Do we really want to burden them? Do we really believe that it is bad management and that the 30 percent bill will save its costs? If anyone believes that, okay, I have no way of denying it. [[15.30 hours]] I think, when we say the numbers of how the volume or prices in the various works of public procurement have fallen, we have to take into account the economic cycle and the state in which the economy is. We do not have the publication of contracts, the register of contracts, and over the last few years the price of transport constructions has fallen by tens of percent, sometimes by fifty percent. This means that if we still adopt this law and we come out of reducing it by another 30 to 50 percent, they're going to build it for free against what was the other day. It's just not normal. We have to say what year it was, what was the conjucture, what was the economic growth, what was the average price. And then we can say yes, and I don't believe that the traffic constructions went down because of the contract register. By the way, in the Czech Republic, every transport construction, almost everyone, is worth over 500,000 and has to be. [[unintelligible]] The effects of economics on self-government are once again extremely well-shot. And I'd say that's ridiculous. [[unintelligible]] The ones that cost two a day, zero minutes or six minutes, twelve minutes, 22 crowns... I don't know who counted it. And I live in a village that has 1,800 inhabitants. The mayor has two hours of office hours a week, and we have a part-time clerk there. And she's 1,800. Not 100 or 200, i.e. the municipality has a higher budget. [[Nesroz. - tax determination?]] Do you really think they normally scan there, using data boxes? You don't live in real life. You still live in that big city. There are municipal elections this year. Let's not complicate things for them. If we want to control large cities, triple municipalities, double municipalities, please talk about parameters. I think we should consider a number where it's still effective or not. I would ask the processors to exclude the concept of invoice from this law. It just fell from the sky, it's not anymore. Is a tax document or simplified tax document or paragon. Healthy common sense. We're focusing on the big money, the big volumes, that might have an effect. Let's put a limit on one transaction or on one transaction. I think it's just as legitimate that someone doesn't purposefully share orders or orders for small parts with the fact that they've complied with the law. This means a limit on the company and calendar year or limit on individual transactions. And we will strongly promote that small communities are free from this obligation, because it will not help anything, only it will poison people's lives and activities. Today it is often difficult to get enough candidates to run for office in those municipalities. There's not even a duel going on, three four or five electoral groups. That's where they're really looking to find the seven, the nine deputies who are willing to do the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u34	I thank the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. My colleague, Ivan Adamec, will wait a little longer because Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Gazdík has signed up with priority. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u35	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I, with all due respect to my honourable colleague Stanjur, want to say through Mr President that I am moved by the concern of the Civil Democratic Party about the small community. I've been in charge of a small thousand-headed community for the 12th year. I was the one who fought for the small communities here in the tax budget. It was my community that sued this country to the European Court of Human Rights for tax discrimination against small municipalities. I want to tell you, through Mr President, that the small municipalities will certainly survive the contract register. They've endured much worse. And the contract register isn't self-fulfilling. If we want to combat corruption in this country, the contract register isn't just about publishing contracts and fighting corruption. The contract register may cause us to reach unit prices over time, that we will finally know that a square metre of pavement is being built in this country for so much and so much money on average, a square metre of highway for so much and so much money. And that is essential information that is worth a few minutes of time in small villages. For me as a village representative, it's so valuable information when I know that my mayor designed that sidewalk for so much and so much money that I can know that the average price of the pavement in the Czech Republic is so much and so much and I can ask my mayor why our sidewalk is more expensive! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u36	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr. Chairman of Zbyněk Stanjura Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u37	I just want to remind you that Petr Gazdík and I have put forward a change in the budgetary determination of taxes, so we have not been in agreement. But I would like to remind the Vice-President of the averages through another Vice-President. That's the classic thing - I eat chicken, you eat nothing, and on average we had half a chicken. If you believe that without knowing the state of the building ground, what it's like to get some average price of a square meter on the sidewalk, you're just wrong. If we don't have comparable geographical, technological conditions, if you're fixing the pavement, if you're repairing it after five years, or after 30 years, that price won't tell you anything. You're going to say that the mayor could have done it better and cheaper. We all know the prosecutors, our experts who know that the city could always buy cheaper or sell at a better price. And you'll always find a forensic expert who'll print it for you, put a stamp on it, and say - in my opinion, the city could have better sold or bought it. I just want to remind you that the council is consciously making an economic decision. If we want to have a register of contracts, I suggest you assess the privatisation of an apartment building in individual cities and municipalities and assess the economic advantage of what was actually going on, whether it was being sold at the usual price or not, because in every city or almost every city, it is a fundamental difference when the apartment is being sold by a private owner or a city. And how is it that you don't mind it's not usual, because it's a political decision, and that's the way it's supposed to be. The village is supposed to decide for itself. The elected representatives are to decide politically whether it will be a market price or a subsidized price. No register of contracts, including the price of selling apartments, will answer that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u38	Thank you. And now the last Member of Parliament Ivan Adamec. And I have an ambition to conclude a debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u39	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I hope I will not be an impulse for further debate. Otherwise, I would like to tell co-chaired colleague Petr Bendl that the promoter is the mayor of Semil, a town in eastern Bohemia originally. He's a colleague of mine, I'm from Trutnov. Unit price. Please, I know what my colleague Stanjura was talking about. It's a big problem we're fighting today, everyone's catching on. And you might wonder how many criminal charges have been filed based on this price. But I wanted to talk about something else. I was going to say that I didn't sign the State Reconstruction and not so much because I didn't agree with most of the ideas that were there, but I didn't agree with the company. Moreover, I think that when someone puts forward a proposal as a Member that someone else is proposing to him, it is classic lobbyism, and that the group that is doing this should join the political competition and do it on its own. That's my opinion. The fact that it fell here that it was almost stalking, as my colleague here said, I can answer that. And those were the reasons why I didn't sign it, even though I could agree with a number of things. And here's one more thought. You know, the road to hell is almost always garnished with good intentions. And I wouldn't want us to come to that. Because intent is one thing, and reality can be another. I wasn't here in the House when the law on free access to information was passed, so-called. Hundred and six. Some of them were here. I'm sure you remember what a coup in public administration it was. I can tell you how it works today. Today, civil activists ask the highest possible question, and they don't want to pay, but I don't blame them because they're just civil activists. However, they have it for their profit. Otherwise, they're asking competing companies. No one else. It's true. I can tell you - two thousand city - I have about ten applications a year, eight of which are corporate, two may be active. I think the same thing will apply to the registry. But I don't want to judge, of course. I think the register -- why not. It's a matter of measure, and it's already fallen here, from what amount, when and with what intentions. It is also not to do this to us that our economy in a certain part of the Czech Republic will really stop moving. Otherwise, perhaps such a final thought. You know, I'm a proponent of publishing everything, 'cause even if someone wants something, they'll know. And the worst option is that I want to keep something secret. So if I want to hide something - and I'm not doing it, please don't hold my breath - I'm going to publish absolutely everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u40	I thank my colleague Adamc. I don't have a written application or an application from the place. If so, I would conclude the debate. I would ask the applicant's representative and rapporteur for final words. First, the plaintiff's deputy, Mr. Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u41	Thank you. I would like to thank all those who have discussed this very much for giving time to discuss and study this proposal. I would just add a few things that I wouldn't like to keep them on the air and not be explained in some way. The personal one first. I am indeed the seventh year mayor of Semily and we publish everything. And what this brings is certainly greater trust in the public administration of the population. I'm sure it's worth it. Semil's budget is about 135 miles before redistribution. Crowns. It's a threesome city of 9,000. As far as the legislative proposal itself is concerned, of course it is possible to be alternative, it was also government proposals that came here in the previous parliamentary term, and you will certainly remember the remuneration law in which these variants were presented directly to the House does not exclude this. I agree, and he and the bill assume that the discussion of limits will be open. I also expect a discussion on the limit of orders and invoices, because I believe that setting limits on contracts is actually more complicated than publishing all contracts. How will you determine whether this is over the performance period, whether after a certain period of time the contract will exceed the expected limit, will it be approved, published, will this mean that the situation will be corrected or will it be invalid? There may also be a debate, of course, and that is why we are the Chamber of Deputies, and that is why it has not been proposed today for approval at first reading, so that discussions within the committees are possible, within the parliamentary clubs, and I am open to it. What I mentioned in my opening speech and what is discussed, but it is the shem, the one that gives functionality to this law, and the mere bureaucratic obstructions make it an effective tool is precisely the effectiveness. If it wasn't there, the law is losing its sense and please don't talk about the contract register at the time, but it would really just be another harassment that wouldn't have caused the effect. From my position as mayor of the village with extended scope, as well as in other discussions with the mayor, I talked to them x-times about administrative difficulty, how to reduce it to the maximum. After the debate, we've always come to the conclusion that it's worth it. That the positives it brings are even greater among small communities than what they put into it. I don't have to talk about theoretical estimates of time, I can introduce the practical ones, because they added to the example of Semile. Indeed, the publication of the contract takes an average of five minutes, which when we have calculated how much of the volume of work that is issued by the Office, it is one three thousandth of the time it spends, it is time that will require a register of contracts. When they counted it in the Liberec Region, which has been operating in the register of contracts for a year now, and here I draw attention to some of them, there were some objections to the fact that perhaps the register of contracts itself might not be functional - he is already operational today, he has been in operation for a year, which we can call trial, but at the same time it is possible to immediately launch it into sharp operation, so in the Liberec Region, they even calculated that time once tens of thousands of times that they devote to other public administration. We've been discussing most of the community here. I would like to state that the amount of finance that will be published in the register of contracts, so 90 per cent are finance outside the municipality. The whole big debate we've had here is about 10% of the public funds that the municipalities are dealing with. That's not a small amount. At the same time, I will be able to think about how much this is going to be, because it really isn't crucial. [[present]] Small municipalities are not really the ones that would be a major problem. And perhaps only for those for whom Reconstruction of the State is a red rag: This law and draft of this law is older than Reconstruction of the State. It is not that any lobbyists have brought this bill, by the way, over which the then Deputy Minister of Justice Mr.František Korbel and the author of the Civil Code, Professor Eliáš, worked. These are the lobbyists in quotes I've been working with to prepare this bill. I think they are the best of those available in the Czech Republic. So maybe it's just for refills. Once again, thank you very much to all those who have spoken in the debate, and I look forward to having many fruitful discussions before the adoption of the law itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u42	I thank the representatives of the petitioners and ask for the final word of the rapporteur. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to briefly evaluate today's very fruitful debate. I think that it was beneficial and that, as we have heard here, all of us sitting across the political spectrum, basically nobody has anything against the principle of the proposed law, but there are certain details in quotation marks or individualities that should be dealt with further, preferably logically on the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think the criticisms are relevant because they are not only based on some legal analysis or practice from the management of a small, smaller, large or larger city, simply the criticisms of people who deal with it by law and who have some experience. I listened very carefully and found that basically all parties, whether coalition or opposition, are for that principle. But in my original, first news appearance, I was slightly criticizing the already mentioned State Reconstruction Initiative. I looked at the Facebook page of this organization that wants to do good, although sometimes it's pointing a gun at your head. I'm easily reminded of the Jehovah's Witnesses by this capriciousness. However, I have looked at their website and I must say that they are not interested in any discussions and opinions of experts, lawyers, representatives. I will just read you how you should vote today and how you should continue to deal with this law, because it recommends reconstruction of the state, and I think 140 or 160 Members of the Chamber of Deputies signed a commitment to cooperation with the State Reconstruction. So I'm going to read you how you should proceed, and that basically tells you everything. When I looked at their Facebook profile, they're not only calling me names now because of my performance, because it's their biggest swear, but they're blaming me for noticing Zeman about how he's involved in everything, and we're not attacking this goddamn organization. I think that the way we should not take with gratitude the actions of Zeman, President Zeman, sorry, which, in my opinion, is sometimes on the edge of the Constitution, so we should not be bound by any opinions, and I do not mean bad, but by the opinions of one organization. Because, of course, it's not about the organization, but it's about you, the worries, the lawyers and the experts. So the recommendation of the State's reconstruction to the draft law on the register of contracts: "We consider the draft law on the register of contracts to be of good quality and recommend its further discussion. We recommend that we hold a workshop of Members and experts, which would address two points on which the debate is being held in connection with the law, namely the legal consequences of the so-called. penalties for invalidity as well as the impact of the law of a legal person controlled by the State and the authorities. However, based on our analyses so far, we assume that a fundamental adjustment of the proposal will not be necessary. We stress that the majority of the objections are based on the ignorance of the legislative standard under preparation." So this is the view of civil society that wants to do good, any complaints. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u44	I thank the rapporteur for making the final statement in the reporting report better, and we will proceed to the proposals for the vote. I'll announce a replacement card before that happens. My colleague Karel Rais has a replacement card number 17. Before we vote, we will just check the proposals submitted with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u45	I have yet, Mr President, forgotten - there have been questions and requests about me, if I might suggest a press commandment to the Economic Committee, if I may do so again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u46	You can, of course, do so anytime at this time. [[Messenger. - Okay, thank you.]] So it's the Economic Committee. However, first of all, we will vote on an extension of the 30-day time limit which Mrs Helena Válková tabled in the debate, if I have not seen any other proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u47	If I may, excuse me, jump, I've heard the opinion of 90 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u48	No. The Act on Rules of Procedure refers to an extension of up to 30 days, that is to say 60 plus 30 is 90, so that is the total time limit for discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u49	So we're in the same numbers!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u50	We're at the same number. Just like when you were commenting on State Renovation. It was taught in the theory of state and law as a group of pressure. So we're clear on that. Unless you have another motion for a vote, rapporteur, I will have the extension of the time limit for discussion voted. [[Messenger. Chvojka agrees.]] Extension of the deadline for discussion of 30 days and we will vote in the vote number 8 that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 8 from 181 Members present for 152, against no one. The motion was accepted. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. The rapporteur has proposed an economic committee. I'm asking: does anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, please, here are some more suggestions. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u51	I also recommend a hearing on the inspection committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u52	Another suggestion? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u53	Mr President, because of course this is very much affecting cities and municipalities, I also propose a committee on public administration and regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-002-002.u54	Yes. A colleague of mine, Kováčik, gives up his word. We can therefore vote gradually as the proposals have been tabled. First, in vote number nine, a motion for a commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of the Constitutional Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 9 of the 182 Members present for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. In the vote number 10 that I have launched, we will be voting for the Economic Committee. Who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 10 of the 182 present for 154, against no one. The motion has been approved. The next proposal is a proposal for a committee of auditors. I have begun the vote on order number 11 and I ask who is for the commandment to the inspection committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 11 of the 182 present for 150, against 1. The proposal was also accepted. So far, the last proposal is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. We will vote in the 12 order vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 12 of the 181 Members present for 159, against no one. The motion was accepted. We have thus voted out all the proposals. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Constitutional Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Control and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The deadline for discussion has been extended by 30 days, so after 90 days we can deal with the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, speakers, thank you, rapporteur, and I finish point 2. The next item is item 3, respectively. points 3 and 4 as they relate to the same thing, respectively. matters relating to the Supreme Audit Office, first as a constitutional law and then as a law itself. In this context, the President of the Chamber of Deputies asked the Supreme Audit Office . Miloslav Kala about the presence and possible appearance on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. According to Article 52 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 other persons may attend The President may give them the floor. In this context, the following resolution must therefore be adopted: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the participation of the President of Miloslav Kala's Supreme Audit Office in the discussion of paragraphs 3 and 4, 43 and 44.' I have begun the vote on order number 13 and I ask who is in favour of the President of the Supreme Audit Office. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 13 of 180 Members present for 131, against no one. I therefore ask the service to bring in President Miloslav Kala. [[Fun.]] I mean to the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. I welcome the President here with us. Please, Mr. President, sit down. We'll continue with the proper negotiations. First, we'll look at point number.
