ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act No. 73/2011 Coll., on the Office of the Labour of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of related laws, as amended /German press 257/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal was to be made by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, but I would ask Minister Mládek to read this proposal. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In particular, the amendment to the Social Services Act specifies the rules for granting subsidies for the financing of social services. For the first time, subsidies for social services providers for 2015 will be decided by the regions instead of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The amendment states directly in the Act on Social Services so-called. indicative figures, namely the percentage of each region in the total annual amount of funds earmarked in the State budget to support social services for the financial year concerned. This adjustment will stabilise the ratios of direct numbers and increase the transparency of the financing of social services. At the same time, there will be a greater link between the financing of social services to the medium-term plan for the development of social services, which the region is obliged to process. In order to accelerate the procedure for granting subsidies, it is proposed that the Regional Council should decide on the granting of funds for individual social services and their amount under the conditions laid down by the Regional Council. In connection with the adjustment of the financing of social services, the obligations of the regions are newly laid down in cooperation with the municipalities of the social services network in the territory of the region. The social services network will be part of a medium-term plan for the development of social services in the region and should take into account the extent of the social services needed to help address the adverse social situation of persons in the region in accordance with their identified needs. Another important regulation of the Social Services Act is the transfer of the scope to carry out inspection of the provision of social services from the Labour Offices to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The purpose of this amendment is to reduce the scope of the agenda implemented by the Czech Labour Office, which should primarily focus on active employment policy. The proposed law also provides for free provision of care to surviving spouses and spouses after participating in resistance over 70 years, which was cancelled on 1 January 2014. Furthermore, the Social Services Act proposes certain adjustments in the field of administrative offences as well as follow-up legislative technical adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u3	Thank you, Minister, and I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Jana Hnyková to take the floor. Please take the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u4	Good evening. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the promoter has actually said everything. I have made my speech very short because I see that many have thinned out that no one cares too much about the Social Services Act. I get it, because we're gonna need social services some other time. Nevertheless, I would add some things to this area that I consider to be very important. I want to say that for the transfer of funds, subsidies to the region met in advance both the subcommittee on the non-insurable supply system, disabled seniors and socially endangered groups, but also exceptionally the Committee on Social Policy, because we wanted to know more about this issue, how far is the preparation of this amendment of the law and what is the preparation of the regions. As rapporteur, I support the amendment to this law, mainly the transfer of funding for subsidies to the region. Nevertheless, I have reservations about this amendment, and I believe that after having discussed everything properly in the Committee on Social Policy, we will be clear and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will reflect not only on my point, but also on how to correct others. At the outset of my brief assessment, I must state that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has admitted, after years, that the current legislation is completely inadequate, because it does not guarantee sufficient protection and transparency of the system of financing social services, which I consider to be a very sad statement, because in the past, both the health unions and the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions have drawn attention to this issue in the long term. Nor do I agree that the process of financing social services should continue to be carried out by the methodical instruction of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs instead of the implementing legislation. I do not understand why, after so many years of discussions on the form and content of the implementing legislation, a mere methodology is proposed, with its binding nature being given to be annexed to each individual administrative decision for each region. Among other things, I see circumvention of one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. Therefore, I will require the submission of an implementing regulation as soon as this amendment is in force. As I have informed, it is a matter of overwork less than one month, and not until 2016. It is necessary to say, if only the methodology remains, it is necessary to commit the regional council to adopting the Ministry's methodology so that 14 different approaches to financing social services in the region do not arise. [[19.40 hours]] I also see a great danger here in financing social services for the future, because the subsidies and their amount are fixed on this government and on their coalition contract, and the amount of the percentage of the region's total annual amount of funding earmarked in the state budget to support social services for the relevant financial year is set out in the annex to this law and is really very dangerous. I believe that the subsidy should be the mandatory expenditure of the state budget in a precisely defined manner and purpose, and so binding for further years and future governments, in order to ensure the stability of social services, before any other financing of social services is prepared. Finally, I cannot agree with the fact that the proposed regulation does not bring risks to the regional authorities. After all, the demands for activities related to the implementation of the grant management of the region will increase, the new grant beneficiaries' agenda, the payment of subsidies, the management of the agenda for individual services, the monitoring of the reporting of data on provided social services. If this is taken into account in the amount of contributions to the performance of the public administration delegated, and because the implementation of the subsidy procedure for the provision of social services is the performance of the public administration delegated. And I don't think that consideration is taken into consideration. Just briefly, as I've made some comments. I think that we will have a detailed debate about this in the Committee on Social Policy, and I agree with the Organising Committee that this committee should also be given it, and I also propose a reduction of the deadline for the hearing to 50 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u5	They thank the rapporteur. So I am now opening up a general debate to which I am registering five applications at this point. The first is with priority rights, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u6	I originally wanted to ask, but the Minister is not present, so I won't bother the Minister of Industry. I don't think it would be productive at all. Anyway, we're in an emergency meeting. The government coalition voted for negotiations after 19th and 21st hours. Why not? We used to do that, too. Look at these government benches, look at how extremely important these ministers are to explain these laws well, support them, support them. [[There's only one minister sitting there.]] Really extraordinary situation, extraordinary interest, especially absent ministers. I think we're gonna get through the shortening, since we've passed so many laws here, so why shouldn't the poor guy here have a shorter period of time? I'm just pointing out that the September meeting is scheduled for one week. Well, I'm really looking forward to how it's gonna go, how it's gonna go in those four negotiating days. I would recommend to the Organizing Committee that he change our schedule for the second semester, because we know really now that it doesn't match what's going to happen. About this bill. There are several risks. We have submitted a draft legislative proposal, we wanted to postpone the effectiveness of the transfer for a year. We support the fact of the transfer itself. And we'll tell you why. And which things are not clarified and are not even in the law. It's kind of nice in quotes that there's a percentage of what comes to individual regions. That's quite an interesting mathematical task. We can check to see if the sum is 100%. But I don't know what. We don't know the code that's going to split. At some point in March, the secretary said it would be 10 billion, then she said 8 billion, and today she says 7.2 billion. We'll see. I understand that this will be in the draft state budget. But if we're playing here to fix it for three years, and we're playing the percentage, then it would be good to know how much it's going to be. If I speak from my region, and I would ask all my colleagues from the Moravian-Silesian region to look at the percentage, I think that percentage is not adequate to the size of the region and the social problems of our region that this percentage is too low. But there's still a difference between 12 percent or 11.99 out of 10 billion or 7 billion. Indeed, there is a difference between the capital and the Moravian-Silesian region of less than four percent. I don't know if that's right. I hope that there will be sufficient time to discuss this in committee or in committees. Second, which is not discussed, which is not clear and which raises legitimate concerns about social service providers whose founder is not a region. We give the money to the county and everyone else, especially non-state, and in the right sense of non-state, that means neither state nor regional, but it also applies to urban, they have a legitimate fear that the region logically prefers its facilities at the expense of municipal, urban and private. There are no rules to make it happen. Another problematic thing that, according to our court, should be there when these regions are given such enormous authority that they have compulsory participation. If the region has a mandatory participation of 15 percent, I think it will be much more responsible to collect meaningful projects, because it will also have to give its money, not the so-called money that will come from the state budget. Then the Regional Council meets and they - as a former regional representative, know something about it, I sat there for eleven years - decide somehow. And logically, they'll prefer theirs again. So these are the main issues that need to be clarified. The best thing would be to postpone it for a year. The Ministry already admits that the first money to change the system will probably arrive in April. But nonprofit organizations aren't the ones that have reserves that have money in bank houses that are able to wait three or four months for a grant to last from their own resources. We're not going to propose any rejection or return, we're going to support the release to second reading, and I'm just saying, it would be much better if we postponed the whole thing a year. Then we are able to discuss in detail the problems that I have outlined here - participation, division between regions and clear rules. It would be very good if there were clear rules of financing, for example, that the same prices would be for operations or for beds. It is logical to have a price for an operation and to subsidize the provider of social services accordingly. And when it goes cheaper, it saves money, and when someone does it harder, they just have to get better, or they don't even have a place on the social services market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u7	Thank you. I have here with Mr Novotný's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u8	Thank you for the floor. Hello. I just want to assure through the President, Mr Stanjura, that the regions had to pre-finance all organisations in January, February and March at a time when the government ruled the ODS coalition. The Karlovy Vary Region regularly included several million crowns before the first money from the relevant ministry came in to ensure that the organizations, and not only the regional organisations, survived at all. That's one point. Second point. I can't imagine we'd prefer regional organization. I'm just worried that money will still be small, because there's never enough money, and of course there'll be huge comments on the edge that they're wrong to do it, that they're wrong to divide it. Until now, these comments have been attended by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So so many just two comments that really the regions are being responsible and trying to split money in a balanced way. On the other hand, I have one more thing to say: if there were 170 non-profit organizations in the Central Bohemia Region in 2000, for example, there are 760 of them today, and that cannot be financed! So we need to look at this from all sides, and I don't think the regions are irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u9	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u10	Thank you for the floor. I must stand up for the absent Secretary Marksová and explain her absence. Of course, it is difficult to plan when it comes to the point that the minister is to present in a situation where obstructions and many-week negotiations are announced. The Minister was very interested in bringing her points here and explaining them, and when she saw the meeting held yesterday, she shortened her trip abroad, of course, working on which she is, by one day, and maybe now she's on a plane somewhere and heading here. I regret the remark, because even on the part of the ODS, there was a will here today to discuss all the points at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u11	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u12	That's right. I promised we wouldn't propose to interrupt that point until the Minister arrived, and we didn't, and I'm holding the deal. Obstruction. We announced them yesterday, eight days before we set them off. So I don't think it's surprising, we said it yesterday at the press conference, and we said we'd do it at the last point of the meeting, and we wouldn't be doing it on the previous 24th. That's what we've announced. You can blame us, but I think that's correct procedure, that we're not surprised at the last minute. And I could not forgive that remark, because the Minister is on the plane, that is possible, but the number of ministers will not change fundamentally from that number of members of the government. Yesterday or Tuesday at 2:00 p.m. for the pictures of everyone here, the whole government was sitting here, and now they're not. But it's okay. I'm going to respond but to Mr. Governor. I mean, we don't have to convince ourselves which county or city still supplies some money to social services, but we're talking about originally state money, we're talking about a package that didn't even put cities or regions in the co-financing system, but the state. And the state is getting rid of that power. We say, well, that doesn't bother us, but there must be clear rules. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u13	Thank you. I don't make any factual remarks at this point. The MP has Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u14	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, three members of the government. I think it's a good thing that you don't want to boycott and that you want to release this law, which I see as very important, into the next reading. That's the first point. Second point. We also want rules, because I also believe that it is not possible for us to allow these funds to be provided where they should go by method, so I think that there is no contradiction, that it is more about using the time before us, of course, to pass through the committee to which it belongs, and that I am reporting that the Social Committee is our committee and that we can talk about these things through your Members, and that the conclusion to this will be that we will eventually be able to adopt this standard here. Only perhaps a small appeal through the Vice-President. You know, she being here, it's on your desks and on our desks to know. [[Messenger. It's about the government.]] I'm not talking about the government right now, I'm talking about the MPs, because she made a comment about the MPs, so I wouldn't like that. [[Objection.]] I kind of got it presented that way. If it was all about the government, then, my colleague, I am deeply sorry! [[yes]] [[To the messenger. Stanjuri.]] Which I have often not heard from you - I do not mean from you, but from your Members. So I'd end my speech by trying to discuss this very quickly, let's put it into second reading, order it to the Social Policy Committee, and there'll be room for us to talk these things out and discuss it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u15	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mrs Hnyková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u16	Good evening. I want to respond, through Mr President, to the President of the Social Democracy Club. I was pointing him out. We have two more important laws ahead of us concerning the MPSV, and there is no minister responsible here. I have nothing against Minister Chládek, but I just think the Minister should sit here on such important matters. And the fact that he extended the meeting after 19 and 21 o'clock is nice, but we lack a responsible person here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u17	Thank you. I'm going to turn off the clock, and the Minister is reporting with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u18	I'd just like to make a little point. I'm Mládek, not Chládek. He's not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u19	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u20	I'm the one who started the firefight about taking part or not, so I'd like to end it. I don't miss the secretary here at the moment. I think there will be enough time in the committees, as we said, which is why I said we would not propose a suspension of all three points until the Minister arrives. And I, even if I don't want to, have to stand up for her gentlemanly. Some of the translators were here today, and they still didn't answer anything, and they didn't know anything about the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u21	Thank you. And now we are going to proceed to the properly signed up for the debate. The first is Mrs Hana Aulická. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u22	Thank you, Mr President. [[Two minutes!]] I'm supposed to cut it short for two minutes, and everyone here had factual remarks, so that's unfair!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u23	You have as much time as you want, Madame. You're duly logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u24	Thank you. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, to the House's press No. 257, amendments to Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, we also have some fundamental comments. In the explanatory memorandum submitted by the amendment, the proposed amendment to Section 101 of the Social Services Act used the claim that current legislation does not guarantee transparency in the system of financing social services. However, we cannot agree with this argument. We agree that the indicative number, i.e. allocation of funds to individual regions, should be legalised, but the financial support process, as it has been implemented so far, has not been transparent since a uniform methodology has been given to providers, such as average payments from users, eligible and unacceptable costs, a single transfer system, etc. The established procedure in the evaluation of individual regions and the justification for not supporting certain services was officially published to providers on the MPSV website. The procedure was approved by the Ministry of Labour and there was a direct defence of the proposed real aid to the Region before representatives of the Ministry of Labour. On the contrary, individual methodologies of individual regions are currently being developed, which can be very different, only have the possibility to rely on or use some of the points of the methodology issued by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For providers, this means that if they apply for services in several regions, they will meet with different methodologies as well as the evaluation procedures set out in budgets, mandatory annexes, etc. Furthermore, they can meet different dates of receipt of the subsidy, and what is more, with different forms of aid, such as grant, contribution from the founder, scheme of decisions of SGEI etc. At present, we see a great risk in establishing this network of services that has not yet been defined anywhere. To build it is only on how it was recommended by the MPSV whether it received financial support from the region or not, we do not see it as appropriate and desirable. These are often services that have been supported in other programmes and grants or during the year are created on demand basis and therefore cannot be clearly defined in the network. To build this network in order to be adequate and quality, a longer period of time is needed than is given by the MPSV, which has incorporated this network into the amendment of the law. Although the effectiveness of the law will probably be in 2015, this network is already required for the grant proceedings published this year. Other major challenges in terms of the quality of the social services network, which must be defined, are seen in the legislation on the transfer of inspections to the MPSV. The original adjustment, which envisaged the transition of inspections to the region, was viable and provided certain advantages to the regions. Close cooperation has been established with service registrars, evaluation group of subsidies and control groups of subsidies. [[20.00 hours]] This would be possible to react flexibly and to plan, or to identify, controlled entities according to the information found by the municipalities about the violation of the law and the failure to provide services in accordance with the law. There would be an immediate transmission of information on the exits from the checks, etc. Updating the social services network and ensuring proper setting of optimal capacities based on the quality of the services provided would be much easier and more flexible. Cooperation between the evaluation committee, planners, control groups, registrars and inspectors is the only guarantee that services will not be assessed in the regions in terms of reporting on quantitative data but in terms of quality of services provided. The methodology issued by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also contradicts the draft amendment to the Social Services Act. In Article 101, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The final sentence is: the granting of funds for individual social services and their amount is decided by the Regional Council in accordance with the conditions laid down by the Regional Council. Here it is necessary to proceed according to § 36 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) Act 129/2000 Coll., on regions where the council is reserved to provide funds to municipalities from the budget of the Region and to control their use. In Article 36 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the Regional Council Act is reserved to decide on the grant of subsidies to associations in excess of 200 thousand, unless it is a special-purpose subsidy from state budget funds. It is then possible to submit a decision to the Regional Council, but in accordance with § 28 para. 12 Regional Law, on budgetary rules for territorial budgets. This means that the draft law would have to be adapted so that the region would send funds to organisations established by municipalities or directly social services, as this principle already works, for example. when providing subsidies for direct costs of school facilities under Act 561/2004 Coll., the Education Act. The methodology published by the MPSV is currently being addressed by the relevant trade unions in order to calculate the cost of services according to these formulas and to adjust these formulas according to the information and data of the services available to them. Not all formulas are in line with the data provided in last year's grant application form. It is therefore not always possible to use the formula as indicated but to adjust it according to the data actually requested from the application providers and on the basis of which the maximum amount of aid can be determined. The main challenge, however, may be the main reason, is that the methodology does not refer to the possible financing of newly created services during the year. These services can be created mainly on the basis of the transformation of residence facilities, or possibly. on the basis of the need to provide a service in a location where the service is missing and the demand for it is defined in the medium-term social service plan. In the case of services involved in individual projects of the Region, the municipality concerned is notified of the return of services to normal financing and the transition of funding to the region, and of the obligation of multi-source financing of services, where 10% should be public support, including municipalities. In the case of municipalities that do not support services financially, an appeal is made by the regions to their need, which is dependent on the financial need and without which services in the region could not be provided. It is therefore very clear that all levels must be involved in the financing of social services, i.e. not only regions but also municipalities, for which it will in many cases be a very unpleasant intervention in their budget. The regions have been preparing for this transition of funding for several months. However, it should be noted that there are already high demands on the region in terms of the time intensity of all preparations. Finally, let me say that our club will support the amendment to the Social Services Act at first reading, but we will present amendments which will help to establish better conditions for the overall transition of social services funding to the region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u25	Thank you. The next one entered in the debate is Mrs Chalánková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many have already been said, and I would say in very detail and in particular, so I am rather trying to add, because I have to agree very much with many of the previous speakers. I also have to say for our former coalition that we voted to postpone the amendment to Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, by one year. In the current situation, as we are faced with the way in which these funds are transferred to the region, I believe that it will be necessary to extend this extension further by the amendment, and for myself and for TOP 09, I believe that it would be better to postpone for more than one year, but for at least one year. I think it would be better by two to three years. Why, I'll explain later. First of all, you've heard something about transferring powers to conduct an inspection. I would just like to point out there that the regions will still go to the service providers for checks, but not for the quality of social services, but for the use of the subsidy. What's the danger, I'll get to that. We have interrupted the meeting of the Social Policy Committee, which has already discussed the methodology of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for granting subsidies from the state budget to the regions and the capital of Prague, because we have been familiar with this methodology, and it can be said that we were also very surprised that we are getting the methodology into our hands on something where efficiency is yet to come. The meeting was also suspended due to the absence of the Minister, for whom we had many questions. In what I see the greatest pitfall of this methodology is that this methodology was prepared by the official route at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and those figures which were referred to as indicative figures from the subsidy, which will not be clearly defined and binding from year to year, so these indicative figures in percentage were set purely administratively on the basis of an agreement with the Association of Regions. This is a pitfall in the fact that the regions are also providers of social services and are also founders of contribution organisations. I'm just pointing that out. Here is a clear conflict of interest. So this is a purely official procedure that has been submitted to us on the committee. I don't know why, apparently, maybe noted, perhaps not to agree. This methodology also states how the regions will approve the distribution of subsidies, in their bodies in the Council and in the regional councils. I believe that this is not how we should be treated by officials towards the regions and the municipalities. That was the moment I thought I wouldn't do it like that. And here, let's stop and talk about a systemic change in funding. That was supposed to happen. How were social services funded earlier? By 2006, we had funding for social services in three directions: The money went from the state budget to the municipalities, which established the municipalities, and here the bed subsidies were calculated and regularly audited as needed for years. Furthermore, it was a dedicated subsidy for the provision of social services by non-profit organisations that went through the regions. With knowledge of things and terrain, these regions then distributed specific social services. There was no problem with this, especially because the regions were able to send these subsidies to these non-profit organisations by mid-February of that year. And the last package was a grant for the performance of the founding functions for the regional contribution organisations. Act No. 108/2006 Coll. all of this has been canceled and replaced by so-called contribution to care, when after a long, perhaps 14-year negotiation with the National Council of Disabilities etc. This law has finally been passed. It was intended that applicants for social services would purchase these services and that a network of those providers would be established accordingly. Some die, do not die, and this is how this network is actually created. Well, that didn't happen. In addition, subsidies are granted for the performance of social services for these mandatory expenses. However, the total amount of funding for the provision of services in 2006 was about 13 billion. Crowns. For 2014, we're at 26.5 billion. koruna, of which 20,5 billion. CZK makes a contribution to care. [[20.10 hours]] It is clear that we are changing the demographic structure of the population, so we need more funding for social services, but at the same time it is high time to start talking about a systemic change in the financing of social services. And here we can talk about different categories. It concerns people with disabilities. There are fewer of them and they deserve higher amounts in individual contributions due to the disabilities, but at the same time we have a large group of seniors who need social health care, and there is certainly good to start talking to the health department about what long-term care should look like for these people. So the problem is very complex and very broad, and it really is not a simple methodology to tip over non-profit subsidies from the state budget. So if we split the percentage of the indicative numbers from the non-interest subsidy, we can also look forward to the fact that the non-interest subsidy can be zero - but that's what I put out. That is why we are asking and will apply an attempt to postpone this change in funding at least a year, better by two to three. So there can be a debate about a systemic change in the financing of social services. What I would like to draw attention to and what has not yet been said here, I will no longer discuss the methodology, but it concerns the issue of the danger of negotiating public support at all. Because we have written from the explanatory memorandum that the financing of social services will be addressed as services of general economic interest following the specification and timing of the MPSV data base, etc., etc. But we don't know if there's even a negotiated use option, if there's even a negotiated way of public support for providing these services to regional contributory organisations. I do not believe that there is a problem of incorrect public support here. So I'm also pointing out this problem. I will no longer extend my speech. In committees - we therefore do not propose rejection, we will vote in favour of the committees and for second reading, but here in committee I will try to shift efficiency for at least another year, better two to three.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u27	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mr Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear from previous speeches that this law is not well drawn up. I'm not questioning the move to transfer social services funding to the edge as such. But in the form in which he is prepared, he is very risky. Even in the case of the Civic Democratic Party Club, we will not propose rejecting this bill at first reading, but I am very skeptical whether it is possible to put this proposal in a form that limits the risks of both providers and regions. Mr Novotný, also currently the Governor of the Karlovy Vary Region, said that in the previous parliamentary term the relevant Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Government had asked for the transfer of these funds to the region's disposition. I must say, I have been a representative of the Plzeň Region since the beginning of the region's operation. Since 2000. At that time, we also asked for the transfer of these funds. At that time, the left-wing government was in the first two elections when I was on the Regional Council, and we were told that it was too high a risk that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was concerned about how the regions would proceed, whether 14 social services financing systems would actually arise. This proposal has considerable problems on two points. That one point, not only did Mr Stanjura talk about it, but many, is given by the fact that it is a non-interest amount from the state budget. This means, every year, the Minister or the Minister must ask the Government for some amount of funding for social services. No one knows if it's going to be eight billion, seven billion, nine billion, ten billion. And now it's the greatest danger. This draft law fixes the share of individual regions. I don't know on what grounds, because if you look at the garnish, they don't even copy the numbers of the county population. This means, it is probably based on an algorithm that has been established by officials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, perhaps based on the overall scope of current regional applications. But it is not possible to set a static model and assume that no change or any other providers in the coming years will or will not change. I think that is one of the great risks of this proposal. I am from the Pilsen Region and I must say that I am not at all satisfied with the percentage, because the percentage for the Pilsen Region is one of the smallest. So either there are few social service providers in the Pilsen Region, few clients, or the current regional leadership could not negotiate better conditions. And the second thing that bothers me, of course, and which has also been mentioned here, is the question of the system of decision-making about the subsidies at all. Even if there is a subsidy procedure we can perceive in the so-called. the delegated system, so undoubtedly the decision-making of subsidies is in the system of separate competence. It is not possible for the powers of the Regional Council to be passed on to the Regional Council by this law. A Member has already mentioned the school law, but it is set in a completely different way. There, the regional authority decides on the allocation of funds, not on a separate basis. These are things that do not serve, say, the reputation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or the quality of the processing. And while it is true that we will not propose rejecting this bill at first reading, I completely agree with Mrs Chalánková that it would be best to remove the risks, to really prolong the effectiveness or delay the operation of the transfer of funding to the region by at least a year, if not more, two years, so that all these things in the meantime can be arranged somehow, they could be dragged into some better system or into a more precise system than this bill. So I don't want to talk about any more decrees or methodical instructions. I mean, Madame. The Aulická or the rapporteur said that if this had remained in the plane of the methodological instruction, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs would have to force the regional council to agree to such a methodical instruction, which I really cannot imagine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u29	Thank you. Mr Opálka came forward with a point of fact. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have to say that we have one more press number 205 that solves this situation, but it's from the ODS workshop, but it only postpones six months. Which is quite unfortunate, because mid-year grant distribution is a problem. But I wanted to respond to the division between the regions. You know, I would like to address this in the context of the budget tax determination so that the regions have a clear definition of how much money anyone will have. But we have a big problem with that, not every county is the same. Somewhere it is hit by the former heavy industrial production of another, which is why there are so many differences. [[20.20 hours]] The problem's been solved for a few years. I have to say that the regions are actually dividing the grants today and in the recent past. Ninety-nine percent of how they split it up, so the D.O.D. basically just confirms it. So the regions want the letter of the law, which has already been postponed, to finally come true. But social service providers, the National Council of Disabilities and others are opposed. I think we're gonna have a big deal on the committee this time to figure this out. However, I would like to make one proposal now that, in addition to the Social Committee, this should also be directed to the Committee on Budgets. Because it's really gonna be a big deal. We can't fix some permanent amount that won't inflation, and we have an internal debt there, because there haven't been wages in social services for several years, and we've been giving them less and less, but the social service boom, because it happens for some people and business, and I'm not afraid to say it here, brings more and more costs. So -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u31	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u32	Yes. That's all, just the budget committee to record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u33	Thank you. Another duly applied for is Mr Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to say that this law is not well prepared, and most of the previous speakers here have described the problems and risks. I agree with what Mr Stanjura said. He described precisely the risks to social service providers. I believe that since the transfer of money to care users has taken place, the surcharge for caring for individual users of social services, since then, social service providers have actually encountered many problems that have not been solved until now, and that there is still actually money missing to finance social services. I would like to say that social service users need quality services, but providers need stability. And unfortunately, stability in this sector is not yet, nor will it be. In many cases the regions have their own social service providers and there is some competition between regional contribution organisations and those other social service providers. There is a concern that regional organizations will benefit at the expense of others. In my opinion, it is not possible to fix any table in the annex to the law a percentage of the total annual volume. That's totally wrong in my opinion, if that's the way it's supposed to be in a decree somewhere. It can't be fixed. And providers also point out that each region is different. Each region has a different population, a different number of users of social services, etc. This administrative determination is very bad. I also find it unfortunate that the competence of the Regional Council will decide how many people receive these subsidies. It should be in the authority of the council. And I also want to say that there are still no clear criteria, no parameters, no normalities. All this has to be done. Because if we let this law go the way it is, we're going to have 14 grant proceedings here, and in some regions, unfortunately, some providers can't reach the money. The union of employers' associations gave an opinion on this in April of this year. They requested at least the establishment of framework procedures at central level, the introduction and use of exact procedures and criteria in each region, which would allow for the back verification and calculation of the amount of State subsidy received. Against the current, current system, to introduce measures to guarantee transparency in the grant procedure. Allow representatives of the social partners to participate in regional grant procedures. Social service providers have called on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to introduce possible exact procedures, calculation formulas, compensation payments, personnel standards, etc., on which they have been working in recent months, as well as publication of comprehensive requests from the regions for 2014. From all that has been said by the previous speakers, I also advocate that these things be completed and that the effectiveness of this law be postponed by at least one year. I believe that we cannot proceed in the case of the Social Services Act through trial and error and we cannot afford to continue with the mistakes that have been going on here since 2002. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am asking whether anyone else is enrolled in the general debate. It's not like that. [[Protests, the MP has filed a complaint.]] So thank you and I am done - with the de facto remark Mr. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u36	I'm sorry, everyone, but you know what? Let me tell you something. I've been here for years, and many of you have sat here, and social services haven't been able to make money. Every year you've been arguing about how many hundred million you need to add to that. This year, for the first time, it was worth 7.2 billion for social services, which, of course, is not enough to raise wages, but at least that was enough for the operating costs of these social services. I'd like you to consider that. We don't have to convince ourselves that the bill isn't perfect. And I believe that a number of things that have been said here, and I perceive them, will simply be discussed on this committee, and that we will be careful not to get the money there without the bows, so that the money can be blown up somehow, and I think that is the task of the Social Committee. So I would recommend that we end this debate, even though I'm prolonging it myself, but I felt the need to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u37	Thank you. I see no one else entered into the debate, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister or the rapporteur if you want to take the final words. It's not like that. We will move forward and deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy. I have noted here the proposal by Mr Opálka to order this also to the Committee on Budgets, so this proposal persists, and I ask if anyone else has a proposal for the commandment. That is not the case, in which case we shall proceed to the vote. First, we will vote on who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm ending vote number 41. Members present are 144, 133 for this proposal, against none. This proposal was adopted. Furthermore, we will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? I'm ending vote number 42. Members present 144, for proposal 132, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy and the Committee on Budgets. That concludes the discussion of point No. 15 and handing over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-009-015.u38	Good evening. We'll continue by discussing item number
