ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u1	109. Oral inhalation Mr Ladislav Šincl, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the minimum wage and its introduction, is prepared with the first interview for the Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say here about this debate that the subject of the interventions often comes from citizens who turn to their Members. In my particular case, there are many, many citizens living on minimum wages in our region, and therefore my interpelation is on minimum wages. So allow me to bring in my interpelation here and not steal Members' time from abuse of your preferential right. Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately, people working for the so-called minimum wage are still not getting enough income for a decent life. The current amount of this minimum wage of 8,500 gross does not cover even their basic needs in life. Those who work for this wage are thus paradoxically dependent on social benefits. For comparison only: neighbouring Germany introduces from 1. 1. 2015 minimum wage of CZK 233 per hour, which amounts to a little over CZK 39,000 per month. In France, the minimum wage is CZK 39 458. And there are states with a much higher minimum wage. The net minimum wage of the individual is CZK 7 565 in the Czech Republic according to the international methodology currently CZK 2,118 lower than the income poverty threshold, which amounts to CZK 9 683. This concerns an estimated 120,000 citizens of the Czech Republic. Thus, there is a paradoxical situation that one who works for minimum wage has less income than one who does not work and lives only on social benefits. It's obvious it's wrong. Working just has to pay off. Your government is seeking social reconciliation and social issues. In my opinion, the issue of introducing a minimum wage is a key issue in this area. Therefore, I would like to ask you at what stage is the promise now declared by the government that the minimum wage will be increased. [[Attention on time.]] Also, what will be the impact of increasing this wage on the economy and on the labour market. Aren't you afraid of the negative effects that the critics of this introduction draw attention to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u3	Thank you, Mr Šincl. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u4	Thank you, honourable Member. I am really sorry that the first Member to come up with an interview does not reach them until 25 minutes after the opening of this point in today's Chamber of Deputies meeting. What's happened here in the last few years? The fact that the previous governments, where the ODS was coincidentally and were there by coincidence TOP 09, for ideological reasons refused to valorize the minimum wage in any way, and that the period lasted from 2007 in fact to 2013, which means that the minimum wage did not rise by a crown for six years in our country, led to the paradox you described in your interview. Because the minimum wage did not increase in those six years, but social benefits increased several times in order to increase the living minimum. This means that there has been a paradox where people who work for minimum wage have a lower standard of living than people who cannot work for various reasons, have lost their jobs and are dependent on social benefits. I think this is a paradox that is completely demoralizing in terms of the functioning of society. And the government's aim is not to reduce social benefits, but the government's aim is to increase minimum wage by step. And if six years of minimum wage has not been raised here for ideological reasons, then the government needs to do something real about it. I am glad that Rusnokův's government, which was here last year, first increased wages by 500 crowns after six years. We have agreed and held negotiations within the Council on economic and social agreements. I would like to welcome the fact that employers and union representatives have agreed. They agreed on a proposal to increase the minimum wage by CZK 500 from 1 January next year. This means that from the current CZK 8,500 gross, the minimum wage will increase to CZK 9,000 gross from 1 January next year. And it's a social partners agreement. At the moment, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is preparing appropriate government regulations. It's going through a reminder procedure. I assume that until the government's holidays, the government will discuss and approve this regulation in accordance with the views of the social partners. We were even in such a paradoxical situation that the recently published analysis confirmed that the Czech Republic has even a lower minimum wage than Poland, Slovakia and Hungary. This means that we have reached a situation where even countries with lower standard of living in terms of gross domestic product per capita have a higher minimum wage than those working in the Czech Republic. That's something the government will definitely want to change with gradual steps. As part of the coalition program, we agreed that the minimum wage should be close to about 40 percent of our country's average wage. That's what we're missing. I expect a debate to take place next year between trade unions and employers, and I expect tripartite to recommend to the government another step in the gradual increase in minimum wage. And I would very much like us to be able to step up our minimum wage every year to get to the 40 percent average wage. So much for a very brief reaction to your interpelation. Perhaps what is worth recalling, as I mentioned, was in ODS and TOP 09, in those years 2007 to 2013 did not increase the minimum wage or the koruna, so it is interesting that when you look at history, when the period was the same, it was between 1992 and 1996. At that time, the Civil Democratic Party also ruled here, and once again the minimum wage was frozen. Then, after the 1998 elections, the government led by the social democracy tried to remedy the situation and there was a further gradual increase in the minimum wage during those eight years. I think that it cannot be assumed that the increase in minimum wages would have any negative effects on the question of applying people to the labour market, especially since, during the six years when the minimum wage did not increase at all, its purchasing power had significantly decreased due to inflation. And a gradual increase will not have negative effects on the employment of people with limited qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u6	Thank you, Mr President. When I said in our region, where there are really a lot of people who work for minimum wage, that is why I am asking and I am very interested in this and, of course, the citizens who have turned to me on this matter to interpel you. However, allow me to ask you an additional question. In the case of a minimum wage, it is also competition with regard to labour costs between countries. The critics of the increase in minimum wage, such as Mr Kalousek and Mr Stanjura, who have performed here, argue that the rising minimum wage will push jobs abroad. As I have already set a small example here from Germany and France, and there are certainly other countries that have a minimum wage at a very different level than the Czech Republic. Do you have an overview of the situation in the European Union, in the neighbouring countries, and is this factor taken into account when preparing to increase the minimum wage? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u7	Thank you, Mr Šincl. The Prime Minister will complete his answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u8	Dear Member, the Institute of Minimum Wage is indeed widespread in the countries of the European Union and, as a rule, it is introduced in the countries of the European Union. Of the 28 Member States of the European Union, 21 of them have legislation that sets minimum wages, i.e. 2/3 of the European Union's Member States work with the Institute of Minimum Wage, 1/3 of the Member States do not have a minimum wage in the Institute's law. Now there's going to be a change in Germany. On the basis of the previous elections to the German Bundestag, local social democracy negotiated the introduction of a minimum wage in Germany on a flat-rate basis as part of the coalition agreement. But for those countries that don't have minimum wages, the system works differently because they're all Scandinavian-type countries where social dialogue is developed. In these countries, the minimum wage is fixed in individual sectors on the basis of collective agreements of a higher degree. That means, for example, employers and trade unions shall agree on a minimum wage level for employees in these sectors within the framework of their agreement. This means that national legislation does not define it in these countries, but trade unions and employers always agree to do so, and it embodies it in higher collective agreements. So what is happening in the Czech Republic today is that we have a minimum wage enshrined in the law, that we are trying to gradually increase the minimum wage, so the main current within the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. We're getting to the second interpellation. Mr Petr Bendl will intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the detention of children in Norway. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Last week and today, the Chamber of Deputies dealt with interpelling on a number of ministers in my deep conviction of illegally and illegally detained children in Norway. They've been there for three years. The Prime Minister has expressed himself in the debate and in the debate on this matter and has expressed himself in this regard. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the particular Prime Minister of the Czech Republic will do to ensure that children return quickly to the Czech Republic and do not have to stay in a country outside their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u12	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking you for the fact that this topic has been opened on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies in the framework of written and oral interventions, because I think it is not wrong at all if an overall review is carried out on what the Government of the Czech Republic can do in all areas to try to help this family to the maximum. Unfortunately, this family has been undergoing very difficult trials since 2011. It is a family that has lived in Norway for many years, they are people who live and work there. Two children, who were taken away from this family, were also born in Norway, but they are Czech citizens, which is the duty of the Czech government to care for their fate. Based on the debate that was here last week in the Chamber of Deputies, I asked the relevant ministries, i.e. all the responsible authorities that had anything to do or could have done in this matter to provide the Office of the Government with written information on all the activities which have taken place, the planned intentions or proposals which the various departments have to do. I would like to prepare a comprehensive report, which will then be presented at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I think that the fact that we started discussing this already, and the fact that the Office of the Government turned to individual ministries, has led to a certain movement, and I am glad. I have received information that is part of the response to your intervention, Mr. Ambassador, that an inter-ministerial meeting took place on 17 June this year at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was organized by the head of the Department of Legal and Consular Affairs of the State Department for further progress in the case. This means that there is some coordination of the procedure of all the elements of the state administration. I suppose, on the basis of the summary information that I will submit to the Chamber of Deputies, it will be clear what procedures individual state authorities will now choose in a coordinated manner to examine all possibilities for assistance. I cannot now, on the basis of the information I have at my disposal, promise that the Czech Republic has already found some specific instrument that it will be able to intervene in its competence and competence. In any case, all options will be verified responsibly. We will turn to all the authorities to give us their expertise, their opinions. I assume that this procedure would continue to be coordinated at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and would also inform the Foreign Minister at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies together with a report that I would submit as Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u14	I want to thank you, Prime Minister, for your concern. I want to assure you of two things. If you review the Czech Republic's approach to the protection of the rights of Czech citizens living in other countries, you can be sure that I personally absolutely believe and believe that I will support any activity leading to better protection of citizens of the Czech Republic living abroad. Secondly, I want to assure you that we will follow this matter, and I believe that there will be no reason for further interpelation and that things will move so that the children will return to the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u15	I thank Mr Bendl. The Prime Minister doesn't have an additional answer. Thank you. We'll proceed to the third interpellation. Mr Petr Kořenek will interpel Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on investment support and investors. Mr Petr Fiala will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, the government is constantly talking about supporting investment, attracting new investors, etc. What specific legislative and non-legislative measures is the government planning in this area? I would especially like to draw attention to the problems of the Zlín Region, because I am from this region, and in this context to the poor transport infrastructure and, of course, to the problems of obtaining investors, especially in Wallachia. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u17	I thank Mr Kořenek and ask the Prime Minister for an answer to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u18	Thank you. Dear Member, the Government may take some very specific steps to improve the investment environment in the Czech Republic. We are now trying to identify the weaknesses that exist in our legislation within the framework of the debate on how to promote economic growth. The first task we have is to prepare an amendment to the Investment Incentives Act in order to respond to the adjustments made by the European Commission. However, we also want to amend this law in order to focus on the influx of high-value investment, particularly in structurally affected regions suffering from high unemployment. We would also like to focus on those productions where there is the potential to use the results of science, research and innovation here in the Czech Republic, so that we can use the great scientific and research potential that we have in our country, which is also strongly supported by public budgets. [[15.10 hours]] The government focuses on the rapid improvement of the functioning of CzechInvest. CzechInvest is an agency that was one of the best in the region ten years ago, which means it was a leader among other agencies that are looking for investment in individual countries. Unfortunately, the agency went through some transformation, went through great personnel instability, interfered with the police, which means that some of its representatives have been investigated in recent years and all of this has been signed on to the ability of CzechInvest to make real investments. I am glad that, after the start of the new government, the leadership of CzechInvest has also succeeded in significantly intensifying its activities. I was personally present this week at the Week of Investment organized by CzechInvest this week. I have had the opportunity to speak to a number of investors with whom this agency is working, and I must say that I have not heard any reservations from investors about the functioning of CzechInvest in recent months, which I think is a good sign for the current management of this agency. What we see as a big problem and a barrier in terms of investment development, and this will certainly also concern your region, is the fact that I believe that, under Nečasův' government, set-aside fees from the agricultural soil fund have increased dramatically in a dramatic way. It was done across the board, unfortunately it was a reaction to the fact that for many years those fees did not increase, so it was also a mistake. But we went from one extreme to another. This means from the extreme, where the fees for nominally long years stagnate, we went to the second extreme, that they increased across the board in a dramatic way. This means that even in those industrial zones where we have free land, but have not been excluded from the agricultural soil fund, today investors come to those zones for investment, and as soon as they learn how much they would have to pay for the set-aside from the agricultural soil fund, they are losing interest. And here we are losing competitiveness towards Slovakia. And now I'm going back to Zlin County again. Beyond the borders, they pay less than they pay for your set-aside from the agricultural soil fund. I have asked the Minister of the Environment and the Government to discuss this repeatedly informally, so that the Ministry of the Environment will prepare an amendment to the Act on Land Exemption Charges from the Agricultural Soil Fund, so that in the industrial zones that are already prepared, which are part of the territorial plans, or we do not want to create any room for speculators, but in those prepared industrial zones, we would like that fee to be reduced significantly. The Chamber of Deputies will also be able to comment on this. I hope that in the middle of the year, at the latest in the early autumn, the amendment would come here to the Chamber of Deputies, and ultimately it will be Members and Members who will decide on the extent to which the fee will be reduced in existing industrial zones. I would argue very much for this, because I can objectively say that the increase in this fee at this time prevents the emergence of thousands of new jobs, preventing the expansion of the capacity of the existing production companies that are operating here in our country. And I think that by removing this barrier, we would finally do something concrete to promote economic growth. And the last point is, there's not much more time. We need to shorten the authorisation process period for new investors. This is, of course, a big task for the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of the Environment, but we are not competitive with regard to the length of authorisation processes. When someone wants to plant a factory in the Czech Republic, it takes longer than in Poland, than in Slovakia, and this, of course, discourages investors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member - he does not have an additional question. We'll proceed to the fourth interpellation. Mr Petr Fiala will intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the state budget. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am one of the few who has not exercised my right of priority in the opening debate, and I must say that I largely agree with the defence of the intervention that the Prime Minister had here. I think that if we could not agree on the order that an agreement by the Presidents of the parliamentary clubs would really be necessary. Because I certainly would not recommend or support an amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act. I hope I don't have to give myself the right to ask my question within the limit. My question concerns the state budget. On Monday, the government approved the state budget framework, some boundaries for the next years, and it follows that you are planning a state budget deficit of CZK 100 billion between 2015 and 2016 and 95 billion in the following year. I remind you that last year's budget with a deficit of 81.8 billion ended at the time of the economic downturn. Crowns. So it seems that at a time when we all expect gross domestic product growth to grow somewhere between 1.7 and 2.5 percent in individual years, you, like at the time of your last government, will repeat the mistake that we have severely corrected that you are spending more than you really need at the time of growth. Your government also mentions measures in the programme statement for better tax collection, but when I look at the draft state budget presented, it expects tax revenue to rise by about 10 billion. CZK annually, but this is due to growth in the economy, not better tax collection. So my question is why your government has resigned from reducing state debt and is planning the future of all of us on debt. And how much do you expect to raise in the Treasury next year on the basis of your measures to improve tax collection?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u21	I thank Mr Fial. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u22	Dear Member, although for the time being part of the preliminary draft law on the state budget, and I would like to stress that this is a preliminary proposal, the real government will approve at the turn of August and September and will only send it to the Chamber of Deputies in September, and now it will be negotiated between the Ministry of Finance and the various ministries, so I would like to stress the deficit of 100 billion. The koruna is about 20 billion. A crown smaller than your coalition government planned while you were still in power. When we look at the budgetary outlook that was approved at the time of Petr Nečas' government, it was assumed that the deficit would be somewhere around 120 billion. Crowns. Then, of course, Rusnokův's government intervened. So, contrary to the medium-term outlook, as it was presented and we inherited it from past governments, there is a nominal deficit reduction of about 20 billion. CZK compared to the figures in the budgetary perspective. This, of course, does not create an entirely simple situation and significantly increases the pressure on savings in the state budget. Indeed, we have decided to look for savings where economic growth will not break it. And so, as there has been constant talk in recent years about reducing the operating costs of the state, and instead of taking money to pensioners and families with children and civil servants, as if reducing the rate of pension valorisation was saving the operating expenditure of the state, well it wasn't saving, so we decided to focus on actual operation. This means: Legal expenses go in half, year-on-year. Expenditure on other services, outsourcing year-on-year goes in half. Travel expenses on all offices are being reduced. This means that we are really trying to hit unnecessary operating costs and we are going the way of a very strong reduction. And, of course, with regard to measures aimed at improving tax collection, this takes time. It's a shame that when the ODS government came in, they canceled the Registration Treasury Act. We need to re-enact the system now. Of course, in a modern form, as it exists today in countries like Croatia. That means we want to put in place an electronic record of sales. We are promising a significant increase in value added tax. But these laws must be written first, they must be submitted and approved and implementation will take some time. We also need an electronic statement of value added tax to be introduced. It is also necessary to adapt the relevant systems. The government therefore expects to make use of one-off revenues next year, for example, in the form of profits from state or semi-state companies, and from 2016 onwards, and in particular from 2017, it will use the funds that will be obtained through the introduction of already specific measures against tax evasion. Of course, the measures against tax evasion have also tried to implement the previous government. I want to honestly say that, for example, what happened under Nečasův' government in relation to alcohol bonds, even if it was triggered and it had to be caused by a methanol affair, was still the right response and it certainly led to the market being cleaned to a large extent. The same measure that we supported in opposition was the introduction of bail for fuel vendors. Again, a measure that clearly was heading in the right direction. [[15.20 hours]] That means we want to continue, develop these things so that we can limit tax evasion to the maximum in the years to come. As far as the state budget deficit is concerned, we assume that this deficit should stagnate nominally in the coming years. If tax revenues can be increased by improving tax collection, after two years, this nominal deficit, which we are proposing in advance for the next year, could be reduced. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Fiala has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u24	Just very briefly. Prime Minister, of course, it is not entirely correct to compare budgetary projections. I don't even remember being like that from a period when we faced really serious economic problems and situations where we expect the growth of gross domestic product and when we should respond accordingly. And the corresponding response is really to save money. And if I listened well to the answer to my second question, and that's where you expect the tax collection to improve, and how much you expect the improved tax collection to bring to the Treasury, I didn't get the number. But I have learned that you are planning various registers, and I think that, as you described it, is rather an increase in bureaucracy, and it also means certainly new spending on implementing these measures. So what's the real number that you're assuming is going to be positive for the Treasury, and which is going to be because you're really going to improve your tax collection in a real way?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u25	I ask the Prime Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u26	When they introduced an electronic sales log system in Croatia - i.e. a device where the cashier that will issue you a receipt, and it may not be some classic big cashier, it can be a mobile phone that is connected online to the Ministry of Finance, the printer is connected to it, prints out the receipt - so it increased the tax collection in Croatia by about 20 percent. Thus, in Croatia, the introduction of the measure, which was introduced very broadly and very uncompromisingly, led to such an increase in the return on value added tax. I think that's a very good number. I, of course, do not want to say at this point that there is the same gap in VAT collection as in Croatia. I would expect it to be higher in Croatia than it exists in the Czech Republic. But in any case, it is worthwhile for us to embark on an electronic record of sales project, especially in the situation - unfortunately I have to say this and unfortunately - when we were ahead of many surrounding countries in these measures against tax evasion. In particular, we look enviously at Slovakia. What happened in Slovakia especially in the last two years in the fight against tax evasion, if it were to happen in the Czech Republic, we could have a much lower state budget deficit than the proposed 100 billion. Crowns. It is a number of specific Slovak measures that are an example for us. It is beneficial for the Czech Republic simply because the measures have been tested in Slovakia, they appear to be working. Specific financial benefits are already known in a number of cases. As we have dealt with representatives of the Slovak Ministry of Finance, if they now had the opportunity to implement the new Croatian register system, they would probably have introduced it. They have a technologically older system, but they will try to develop it further. So there are specific possibilities, specific examples. Unfortunately, our country has many years of delay in terms of the electronicisation of tax administration, and now we need to catch up with that delay within two years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Nytrová, who will interpel the Prime Minister on support for families with children, came forward with the fifth interview. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u28	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Dear Prime Minister, allow me to interpel you on the issue of support for families with children. The Czech Republic remains in the birth rate and overall fertility level despite the artificially declared baby boom in the last few years on the European Union's tail, and is in real danger of rapid ageing of the population, the breakdown of the social system and the slowdown of long-term economic growth. Housing and national policy can bring certain elements of stability and motivation into the unstable, uncertain or delayed careers of young people, e.g. strengthen their pronatal and reproductive behaviour, establish families, marryage, birth rate or reduce the age of parents at the birth of the first child, e.g. increasing the availability of housing for young people and actively supporting families with children in the form of e.g. The birth rate isn't just for one child. For young couples who intend to start a family or already for young families with children, the issue of the availability of stable housing is very topical, as self-relationship, the establishment of their own family and the education of children are necessarily linked to ensuring a separate, safe, quality and long-term certain housing. The establishment of a family implies the creation of an environment of security and security. Therefore, I would like to ask: What measures is the government planning to support families with children?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u29	Thank you, Mrs Nytrová. I ask the Prime Minister to answer what measures the government is preparing to support families with children. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u30	Thank you. Madam, there is certainly no simple link between how much funds are provided for the direct or indirect support of families with children and birth rates. The problem is much more complicated from the point of view of demographic development, but of course it is an environment that should be friendly to families, and especially friendly to families who accept the responsibility, have children and take care of their upbringing. Such families no doubt deserve the support of the government. Firstly, I want to say that the government's policy is aimed at taking nothing further from these families with children. In recent years, a number of cuts have led to restrictions on access to support especially for medium-income families with middle-class children. Our social system has been deformed in recent years in a way that, in fact, families with middle-class children have lost their entitlement to social benefits and that claim has remained only for families with the lowest income. I agree that this is the kind of family that needs these resources, but I don't know if it's completely fair to middle classes, to middle class families that have children, because these families also pay taxes and take care of children. So we don't want to take any more money from families with children. We will not increase value added tax. That was a very negative measure. We want families with children to be able to save money as well. Among other things, this is one of the reasons why we didn't want to renew the hospital fee, because of course it also affected families with children in case they had children in the hospital. We want to provide - and we have agreed on this in the government program - the birthing and the second child in the family. Minister Marksová has already submitted the relevant bill, i.e. The birth rate wouldn't just be for the first child, but it would also be for the second child. The Minister suggests that there would be no CZK 13,000 for the first child, but he proposes CZK 10,000 for the second child. We want to focus on improving the labour market situation in terms of active employment policy. This means that the government is now exploring ways to support mothers with children who return after parental leave to the labour market. One of the options we agreed on in the government programme is the possibility of temporarily reducing social security payments for these mothers who return to the labour market after parental leave, and the Ministry of Labour should now prepare and pilot the system. We also want to improve the availability of pre-school facilities, especially in those regions where a large number of young families now have children have moved for work or other reasons in recent years. In some municipalities, especially around large cities, the situation is hopeless. We have agreed - and the previous government has approved a programme where we will use European Union money for those municipalities and cities that decide to expand the capacity of kindergarten schools as well as primary schools. This means that the programme will be available from next year, so that the municipalities that have this urgent need can reach State aid. Today, if a community wants to build or expand a kindergarten, it has to have money to do so, otherwise no one can help it. And if we look at the budgets of municipalities that have grown and swelled thanks to satellite construction, their budgets often do not match the number of children that they should take care of as municipalities. So I consider this to be a very important measure to improve services, to increase the supply of pre-school facilities, to improve the labour market situation for parents returning after parental leave. And maybe I'll remind you of one measure that, in my opinion, is also helpful to families with children, and that is a reduction in value added tax on medicines and child support. From 1 January next year, the government will propose to Parliament in a short time to reduce VAT from 15 to 10 per cent for these items. [[15.30 hours]] Similarly, the coalition contract includes a gradual increase in the tax on the child. This means working families with children who pay taxes will have a chance to deduct a larger amount per child, so there is also some indirect tax support for families who care for children. So very briefly a few measures that the government is trying to implement. Of course, we do not expect these measures to lead to any dramatic and rapid breakthrough in terms of demographic development in our country, which is not satisfactory, but we promise that we will nevertheless improve the quality of the environment in which families decide whether they will have children, and then decide in the next stage how many children they will have, if they have a chance at all, in the environment in which they live, take care of children responsibly and well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask if the Member has an additional question. I thank the Prime Minister and the father of four children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u32	A very important problem today is the still failure to pay support from one of the parents. How will the government address this serious problem?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u33	I thank the Member for the supplementary question. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer to her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u34	Here in the past, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, I believe, twice, a bill has been tabled to address the question of some kind of backed-up maintenance that would be provided by the state in precisely defined cases, which means where the second parent, who takes care of the child, is confronted with the irresponsibleness of a parent who does not pay maintenance. We agreed within the framework of the government programme that such a law would be part of the government's legislative plan, so that the standard would be prepared. I assume that this will be within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and we would like it to be presented to the Chamber of Deputies during this parliamentary term, and I believe that it will receive support. It is not that the State should replace an irresponsible parent who does not pay maintenance, but that the State should provide limited temporary support to a family that is heavily affected by this step. And often a family can be in big trouble. I just want to remind you that it was Nečasův' government that abolished the social supplement, which was a benefit that was intended especially for singles or singles, and more than 110,000 singles or singles lost several thousand crowns a month. And these are the most often families that are affected by the failure to pay alimony. Thus, in defined cases, where an action has already been brought, where there is evidence of long-term non-payment of maintenance, the State should provide for a limited period of time a certain advance and then, of course, enforce it after the person who has not paid the maintenance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u35	Thank you, Prime Minister. With the sixth interview, Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel Mr Bohuslav Sobotka on the issue of the lack of dental practitioners, is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u36	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I am turning to you in a matter which is probably not one of our country's too visible problems, but its impacts on quality of life are fundamental. The problem lies in the fact that, according to my information, there is a shortage of dentists in the Czech Republic combined with their concentration in large cities. The reason is obvious. Stomatologists retire more than they leave college. At the same time, the age of existing dentists does not give hope that the situation could improve. On the contrary, it will only get worse. The residents of the smaller settlements must travel very far to see the dentist. They simply can't get them near their homes. For example, in Vysoké nad Jizerou in the Giant Mountains, many citizens commute between 20 and 30 km and according to my information it is no exception. At the previous meeting, I consulted the Minister of Health on this matter, who indicated in his reply that the government was going to deal with inadequate deployment through subsidies for dentists who would settle down and provide their services in the countryside. Personally, I do not consider this solution to be happy. A much greater benefit would be the extension of the capacity of higher education institutions. Stomatologists are simply objectively few. The more there are, the greater the chance that some of them will move from cities to the countryside. This movement will, in my opinion, lead to natural development. Dear Prime Minister, does your government consider the lack of dentists in the countryside a problem, and how and when is it going to address it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u38	Thank you, Madam. I must say that the problem you have raised is indeed a real problem. It is not, as we often do here in the Chamber of Deputies, a problem of a virtual nature, this is a real problem that troubles citizens. I agree with you that the situation is particularly bad in a number of rural regions, but it is not easy in large cities as well. The average age of dentists is increasing. For a longer time, most dentists in the Czech Republic are either at the border or already at the retirement age. The reaction came a few years ago and gradually began to increase the capacity of the relevant universities where dentists study. Over the last ten years, capacity has doubled from the situation that was here ten years ago. What we are referring to in terms of further increasing capacity for the study of new dentists is first of all the limit of finance, and secondly, there is also a limit of enough experienced educators to teach at these schools, which means capacity for the education of new dentists. That means there are two limits - a teaching background in universities, and then there is a question of funds that could finance such a study. We see a certain possibility indeed in the area of education. At the moment, the Ministry of Health is also discussing the possibility of simplifying health education in the Czech Republic with professional organizations of doctors. One of the options discussed is also considered amendment of Act No. 95/2004 Sb., which would allow the co-financing of specialization training of dentists in the form of subsidies to so-called residential places. So, yes, it is one of the options to combine the support of dentists' education to function within places that health insurance companies determine as critical. I would like to remind you that health insurance companies have responsibility for the availability of the network in terms of the availability of dental care. This means they have a duty to ensure the availability of this care. I am very pleased that very often municipalities and cities are looking for their own opportunities to support young doctors in the form of lower rents for their offices or, for example, by offering the appropriate doctor and apartment if they have such an apartment available. This means that there are other ways in which self-government in cooperation with insurance companies can also contribute to improving the situation in the area of dental care. That is very quick information at the moment on what is being prepared by the government. We would like to combine the contribution to the training of dentists with the support of practicing in a specific locality where there is a social need.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll ask the lady of the house. He's interested in a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u40	Thank you, Prime Minister. You answered the question of how the government is going to address the lack of dentists, but you didn't answer the question of whether you already have any idea when a change in the law you mentioned would be considered. First of all. And I would have such a small question, because the lack of dentists in the countryside is one thing, and as far as rurals and doctors are concerned, there is also a shortage of pediatricians and children's doctors. Whether the government is considering something similar in the context of specialisation education, possibly supporting residential sites even in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u42	If we look at the fact that in the middle of this year there is also an exception which concerns the overtime work of doctors in the Czech Republic, we can say very quickly that we generally lack doctors in the Czech Republic if we look at the extent of health care that should be provided in the Czech Republic. So we have a general problem about how health services will be provided. It is not only medical practitioners, it is also doctors in hospitals and medical staff in hospitals, since we will no longer be able to apply an exception to the increased number of overtime hours that doctors can legally work in hospitals. So we have a problem with the number of doctors in general, we also have a problem with the fact that several hundred doctors who have been studied go to work abroad a year without starting their practice here in the Czech Republic at any time after studying. This is also a very negative trend, which is further aggravating the tensions that exist in the labour market today, and I believe that we should first of all look for ways to prevent doctors from going abroad. One of the things related to this is also the question of remuneration and payments from health insurance companies. So the point is that we have enough money to make payments, whether for a doctor or medical staff. Czech health care is relatively cheap compared to other systems. We spend about seven percent of GDP on health care, but we are particularly cheap by saving ourselves significantly in the field of salaries. This means that the cost is very low today, thanks to the fact that we spend much less than developed countries on salaries in relation to the total cost of health care. This, of course, puts pressure on doctors, for example, to go abroad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u43	I thank the Prime Minister for this reply. Mr Václav Klučka, who will interpel the Prime Minister on health fees, has signed up with the seventh interview, so we will follow up on the subject freely. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps it is not for me to first try to tell you that I will ask the legislative department to explain to me the connection of Section 67 with paragraphs 110, 111 of the Rules of Procedure, which narrowly define the process of interpellation, including the time and structure of the implementation of the interpelation in the House. Now, Prime Minister, questions for you. Many of the political subjects have been very detailed about the charges in hospitals in their electoral programmes. At the time of the establishment of the government, a coalition agreement was agreed, which clearly defined the attached position on health charges, so I am interested in your opinion on the activities of some members of the coalition government regarding the attempt to re-establish hospital stay fees. Now we are not talking de facto about the fees of 30 crowns for doctors and for prescriptions - for staying in a hospital. How, Prime Minister, do you see this effort? What is your opinion on the activity of some ministers in that they come up with this activity and then dement it. Are you assuming that this activity will occur again? Or will we actually meet the fact that the fees, as is in the coalition agreement, will not be in the health sector?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u45	I thank Mr Klučka. Before I give my word to the Prime Minister, I would like to assure him that I asked the House legislation whether my procedure was correct and confirmed that my procedure was correct. However, this does not undermine your right to ask legislation as well. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u46	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Perhaps it was correct under legislation, but it was quite unusual in terms of this point, which is being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. And now I would like to address the response to Mr Klučka's interpellation. Firstly, I would like to say that the government is counting on the withdrawal of recipe fees from 1 January 2015, which means 30 crowns per recipe, and a fee for visiting an outpatient doctor and a specialist in the amount of 30 crowns. So the relevant bill is being prepared by the Ministry of Health, we want to bring it to Parliament and it is part of the coalition agreement that these fees will no longer be levied from 1 January next year. However, we considered it responsible that we should first bring to Parliament a law that will resolve the financing of health care once the fees were abolished. I am glad that the House passed the Act on increasing payments for state insured persons, that is, starting on 1 January next year, an amount of 4.2 billion will be entered into health care. Moreover, which will compensate for the failure of the hospital fees, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court, and I will be back to that in a little while, and will also allow for the failure of these fees to the doctors in the offices. So, as of January 1, next year, these two charges will end according to the government's plan. As far as the hospital fee is concerned, I would like to remind you that it was first introduced by Minister Julínek of ODS in the Government of Mirek Topolánek in the amount of CZK 60 per day, then increased. At that time, when it was CZK 60 a day, the Constitutional Court rejected the proposal for social democracy to abolish all health charges. It was a very close vote by the Constitutional Court at the time, but the proposal to abolish charges did not receive a majority. After the hospital fee was increased to CZK 100, the representatives of social democracy again turned to the Constitutional Court and this time the Constitutional Court accepted the motion to abolish the 100 Crown fee per day. And he did so by revoking the fee from 1 January 2014. Since the law was not adopted at the end of last year, which would replace those fees, people have stopped paying hospital fees since 1 January this year. The new government, which was appointed in February this year, had two options. Either she had the opportunity to return to some form of the hospital fee, but it would have to be in a different form than before, because 100 crowns did not pass the Constitutional Court test, or she had the opportunity to decide that she would no longer apply the fees. The government coalition has also agreed, in view of the programmes with which the parties have run, that it will not reintroduce charges. And I just want to remind you that there was an absolute consensus within the coalition parties that hospital fees should not be paid by seniors. But when we look at the structure of the charges, people over 60 years of age paid a total of 64 percent of the hospital stay fees, just as they were collected in recent years. So it wouldn't make sense to leave hospital fees only for people younger than the elderly. This would mean a much lower choice and would mean a similar administration. That is why, within the coalition, we have agreed that we will not introduce charges again, it is part of the coalition agreement, and we have also agreed to compensate the hospital for the failure caused by this, and this year the compensation will be granted on the basis of the relevant law. We are based on the fact that the Constitutional Court clearly stated that the introduction of a fee for hospital stay restricts the constitutional right of citizens of the Czech Republic to free health care, especially in socially endangered groups - children, pensioners, citizens in material distress, etc. But, as I said before, and from the numbers available to us, it turns out that these socially endangered groups, which means pensioners and children, account for more than 60 percent of the patients who had to pay these fees. Thus, in order to avoid a logical conflict with the Constitutional Court's decision, we decided not to reintroduce a hospital stay fee, with people who receive health care generally either paying health insurance or paying health insurance at the time they were economically active, which means they contributed to the health care provided in the form of payment of health insurance. All on my side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u47	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. I would just add, Prime Minister, that unusual things happen in the House all the time. Mr Stanjura, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the toll system, came forward with the eighth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u48	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, you must know that at the end of 2016, the existing tolling agreement with the system operator will end and, in my view, the choice of the new operator is taking a great deal of delay. The delay was caused by the Minister Žák, whom you expressed your confidence in voting on the trust of Rusnokův's government, as well as your minister. I don't think it's acceptable for the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Transport to be looking for counsel for 100 miles at this point. CZK, which will actually advise the Ministry on what to come up with in the government. You were correct in replying to another interpellation saying you'd be cutting expenses for consulting outside firms. So this is just a 100-mile contract. Crowns. And today, in response to a question from the editor of Czech Television, Minister Prachař said it was good, because if only the officials of the Ministry of Transport did it, it's suspicious and it's better that external companies do it. Seems strange to me. So I have a few questions about that. Firstly, if you agree that the Ministry of Transport is looking for a so-called project manager for 100 miles. CZK, if you agree with Minister Prachař's claim that it is better when external companies do this than the employees of the Ministry of Transport, and your personal opinion on the scale of the toll system after 1 January 2017, that is whether we will expand it or keep it in the existing composition, and your personal opinion on what technology the state should be looking for, whether the state should prescribe technology, as it did a few years ago, and say that it will be toll gate technology, or that the state should prescribe whether it should be satellite technology, or whether you personally would prefer such a public contract award, which would be technologically neutral and clearly defined by the operator's requirements. Last question, would you agree with the Minister of Transport's idea that the toll system will run the Road and Motorway Directorate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u49	I thank Mr Stanjur. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u50	Thank you. Dear Member, the subject you are referring to is very serious. It's one of the important tasks that the government has ahead of it. It is a task that is unfortunately limited in time, and it is very strong, because if everything goes well, we should proceed so that from 1 January 2017 the Czech Republic has a new toll system operator. Given the date we have, I'm sure we'll all acknowledge that this is not a simple task that we now have ahead of us. I'm going to visit the Minister of Transport in the next few days. One of the topics that we are going to discuss is precisely the timetable that exists at this point in time for the preparation of the whole process. You specifically highlighted the project manager's question and stressed the amount of 100 miles. Crowns. This is the maximum amount to be entered in the tendering procedure. At this point, there will be an open competition, and I firmly believe that within the competitive environment there will be a reduction in this amount, which has been marked under the laws we have, just those laws are such that the maximum amount has to be stated. Now it reminded me of the debate we had here yesterday on the issue of the dispute between Deputy Minister Štern and Minister Válková, because one of those documents was also - it concerned the question of how the maximum price should be set for one electronic bracelet, and there was the dispute between the Minister and Deputy Štern. So at this point, there's a competition going on. By the end of 2014, the project manager is expected to analyse a possible variant of road charging, to evaluate the most appropriate option of charging, which will subsequently be submitted to the Government for decision and approval. A responsible steering committee has been set up for the whole process that we have ahead of us and which we should be able to manage. I want to assure you that this is one of the priorities, or, say, one of the absolute priorities, for the Ministry of Transport, to do everything we can to get the new system to work as of 1 January 2017. With regard to the question of operating this system, I think that this is a real option that should be very honestly examined. This means that we should very honestly check whether it is possible for the system to be operated alone and that supply was no longer provided by Kapsch. But clearly, at this point, I cannot confirm this matter to you at the moment, simply because there are still appropriate processes ahead of us that should examine this variant. Either confirm it or rule out this option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u51	Thank you, Prime Minister. With an additional question, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u52	Well, unfortunately, out of five questions, the Prime Minister answered one. Well, if he could do those four extras, I understand. I have one more question. When the minister got so upset today, he always has this universal "ODS" thing, so he publicly claimed it, and I'm willing to call it a lie that when the current toll system was selected in 2004, my predecessors from the ODS were there. So I have a question if you would be so kind, Prime Minister, and he told his Minister of Transport that you and KDU-ČSL were there because it was in 2004. And I didn't criticize 2004 at all, but because the Minister of Transport ran out of arguments and was unable to respond, so he said: you did it because you did it wrong in 2004. But it was a government in which, if memory doesn't deceive me, it was the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport was a member of the KDU-ČSL. So if you'd be so kind as to tell him to answer material questions and not go back ten or twelve years, plus if he doesn't have accurate information and confuses who was in government at the time. And I'll be glad to have those questions - especially if you really think we need a project manager and that the opinion that people from the Ministry of Transport can't do it, so we say that we can't prepare a competition, but at the same time we will seriously and honestly consider whether we can run it ourselves. Well, that doesn't make sense. I personally think that the Ministry of Transport has the capacity of itself to write this competition to submit material describing variants to the government, because such a serious matter must be decided by the government, and that if it is 100 or 80 million, I do not want to argue with you, but I asked if it is necessary at all, at the moment when the government declares this and has our support to reduce, if possible, the amount of money outsourced, legal services, consulting services and the like, why it is going in a completely different direction at this time and is looking for 100, maybe 80, maybe 60, we will actually see it, but it is certainly not a small, negligible amount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u53	I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u54	Thank you. I agree with you, Ambassador, that this is not a small sum and it is not a negligible amount. I totally agree with you and I'm sure the government will be interested in how this contract will compete and whether the competition will help us to reduce the amount from what is now set at the beginning under the relevant law as the maximum amount for this service provided. I'm stressing the maximum. The Minister of Transport analysed the professional capacity available at the Ministry of Transport and concluded that this professional capacity did not allow him to manage the selection system responsibly. This means, it is the opinion of the expert minister, the government respected this opinion of the expert minister. I just want to remind you that the deadline currently set for the submission of the basic parameters of the procurement documents for the tender procedure for suppliers of the electronic myth system and service providers related to the operation of this system after 2016 is currently 31 December this year. This means that appropriate documentation should be submitted by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u55	Thank you, Prime Minister. We've got two minutes left. So, Mr Hovorka, with his intervention, to which he will probably be answered in writing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u56	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, from 2007 to 2013, very many funds were stolen from public health insurance funds through very strange orders and the strange management of some directly managed state hospitals. Some evaluation commissions for the evaluation of these contracts were even appointed by the government of the Czech Republic, or the government itself made a fundamental decision which led to significant funding from health care. I'll remind you of some cases. The last meeting of Mirek Topolánek, who decided to split up 1.5 billion, was held by Mirek Topolánek. CZK to medical facilities, including the purchase of the world's most expensive, highly overpriced instruments, Leksellův's Gamma Knives to Prague Hospital Na Homolce and Cyber Knives Cyberknife to the Faculty Hospital Ostrava. On the same day, the government decided not to invest in a tissue bank in Brno, but to buy shares of two companies, the National Centre of Tissues and Cells in Brno and the Centre of Cell Therapy and Diagnostics in Ostrava, i.e. companies that were established exactly on the day of the government's fall and were not even registered in the Commercial Register at the time of the government's decision-making. [[16.00 hours]] The state therefore refused to invest in a tissue bank in Brno, but then sent the private company more than one billion crowns through funding funds. In November 2009 Fischerův's government appointed an evaluation committee for the purchase of special medical material for a period of four years worth 4 billion. CZK for IKEM Hospital. The winner was the unknown company Kardio Port. A month later, the same government set up an evaluation committee for the supply of cardio-defibrillators for Hospital Na Homolce. The highest perfection was achieved by the execution of funds at Na Homolce Hospital, which set up three subsidiaries, which provided public contracts and purchases of all material for her. For this strange management to be perfectly covered, Hospital Na Homolce outsourced all accounting to Bialešová, s.r.o. So the hospital didn't have an accounting department or an economic deputy. In order to look after legal matters, a significant contract for medical services was awarded to the law firm Šachta & Partners without a tender procedure, while the Na Homolce Hospital was unable to prove what it paid almost CZK 20 million for. [[Time warning]] I'll just ask a question. I am asking if you will continue to suffer, Prime Minister, tunneling public funds in public hospitals, or whether you will stop this recklessly stealing of public funds immediately so that something like this cannot continue. If you push through the necessary cleansing personnel changes to make real experts in hospital management, not figures connected to influence groups around Marek Šnajdr, Ivo Rittig and others, and if you investigate how many public funds the Na Homolce Hospital ended up in Cyprus and other tax havens. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u57	I'm sorry, but it's 4:00. Now it's time for oral questioning for ministers. The Prime Minister wishes to answer. He has priority rights, he can use it. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u58	Thank you. Allow me, Mr Vice-President, to follow up on your fresh interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which has supported, as you say, the legislative department, so that I now take the priority right and respond to Mr Hovorka's interpelation. But before that, I would like to respond to Mr Stanjura's interpellation because I forgot the important thing he asked me to do. I can confirm here that the government behind which the current toll system was introduced was not a government in which the Civil Democratic Party would be. It was a coalition government in which there was social democracy, KDU-ČSL and the Union of Freedom. So Mr Stanjura is right, he was then a government, and he was Minister of Transport Šimonovský of KDU-ČSL, who was in charge of the organisation of the relevant selection procedure, from which the existing supplier of tolling system came. The interview with Mr. Hovorka. Because he was directly mentioned in the reference to Homolka, I asked a little while ago at the Ministry of Health what they could tell me about the relevant inspection that took place there. And I got angry because they really only gave me three or four paragraphs. When I asked why I couldn't have more information to respond to the interpelation, I was informed that we would violate the law on public control. This means that there is actually a phase in which the objections of a controlled person are settled and there is no way that I, as Prime Minister, am here publishing information. So I apologize, but I can mention the interpellation - to quote: The Ministry of Health's control action at the Hospital Na Homolce was launched on 30 July 2013 for the effectiveness of the State Control Act 552/1991 and must be completed in accordance with this regulation. Currently, the objections of the controlled person are settled, that is, Hospital Na Homolce. The Ministry of Health has submitted a report on the outcome of the control of SKPV's detection of corruption and financial crime in accordance with Section 8 (1) of the Criminal Code. This means that the police have already been informed of these conclusions and the Ministry of Health has reported the inspection findings in the report on the outcome of the inspection and has identified the documents and other materials on which the control findings are based. I have asked the Minister for Health to take all necessary personnel measures closely related to the results of this check at the time when he will have the final results of this check. I agree with you that those things that have been mediated in connection with, for example, this medical facility, but also with some others, have been a large number of things, and it is necessary to draw specific personnel responsibility on the basis of the clear outcome of the check that has been carried out. So now the Minister of Health will have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u59	I thank the Prime Minister, and I would like to assure him - and I will repeat it to him for the third time - that I have no fresh interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are quite clear - its paragraph states that any time - and whenever - a word means anytime - the President of the House of Deputies requests it, he must be given the floor. That's not a fresh interpretation, that's a clear interpretation, Prime Minister. That concludes the interview with the Prime Minister, and I'm handing over the meeting proceedings and we'll continue with the Minister's interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u60	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, so we will continue with oral interpelations on the other members of the government. Before we proceed, allow me to read the apologies of the members of the government who will not be here, so that you may be able to withdraw your intervention if you do not want to load it and get a written reply. So, from today's meeting, Minister Babiš apologizes, Minister Brabec is here, he only had a note for the morning, Minister Herman is here, Foreign Minister Marksová, Foreign Minister Mládek, Foreign Minister Němeček's trip, Minister Prachař for work reasons, Mr Stropnickýý should be here in the afternoon, Minister Válková has a ticket only until 13:00, there is a foreign trip Minister Zaorálek and Minister Jurečka. So we will now proceed to Mr Koubek's first winning interview, and I beg him to read his interpellation to Minister Prachař.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Control. Dear absent Minister, I will nevertheless like to present and look forward to your written reply, even if you are not present. Dear Minister, you have declared that your goal is to stabilize the resort. Instead of stabilizing, however, you started to make personnel changes and the question remains, according to which key. It's probably not professional and meticulous. People come to the ŘSD of the Czech Republic from absolutely other fields. For example, the CEO of ŘSD, Mr Kubiš, is from an IT company without technical experience, with the ability of previous employment to manage a collective of about six people, which subsequently fell apart according to publicly available reports. People are coming, who subsequently, even after two months, end again, namely Mr Stanislav Klika, who was appointed and subsequently dismissed after two months. Also finished by Mr. Zdeněk Mařík, Director of Operations Department. For example, the director of the operations section Tomáš Kaas or the head of the office of the general manager Mr.Lukáš Zrůst. Chaos and inconclusiveness can be seen in all steps, limiting the work of even decent people to the ŘSD. The director of the general directorate is placed in places without a selection procedure, but as has now been shown in the past days, the director of the Prague Kroupa race was called off in the middle of the building season of modernization D1 and then a person with at least dubious past and again - without a selection procedure. There are obviously basic managerial failures and, above all, denial of the words you have declared. Minister, I would like you to stop hiding behind the alibi statement that you personally are not responsible for the situation at ŘSD, that the Director-General is responsible. It's not true. Political responsibility is yours personally. Can you please explain to me and us what key you're picking new directors from when they're not really professionalism and managerial skills? Can you please also write to me the professional and political past by you, or through the Director-General of ŘSD deployed people at the Directorate-General of ŘSD of the Czech Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u62	I thank the honourable Member and now, with priority right, the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u63	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I promise this will be the last time during the intercession, but I have been a number of people - I would have survived that, but the former President, Mr Petr Gazdík, was accused of giving me preferential rights in the context of the interppelation just because we are related to membership in a club. I refer to it as my right under the law. And at the moment when President Jerman is chaired by President Jermanová, whom perhaps no one can suspect of being associated with me in a single club, I repeat my legal right to speak in the context of an intercession with the right of priority, in order to tell you with full seriousness, to you Members present, as well as to you members of the government present, that the Minister of Agriculture is a liar, that he is an unprecedented liar, and that I reserve my legal right to communicate this objective and verifiable fact at all times, in any discussion of the House of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u64	Thank you and I now give the floor to Mrs Anna Putnová, who was drawn in second place, to present an oral interview with the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek. Please prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u65	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. My question concerns individual education. I would like to ask the Minister of Education about the concept in the preparation of individual education in the amendment to the Education Act. Since 2007, pilot verification of individual second-level training has been carried out, which has been gradually extended, in 2011 it has been extended, last extended for an indefinite period by Minister Fiala. The pilot verification included 102 children whose results were average and above average, all of them proved successful in the testing. I'm not aware of the results of the pilot verification in the last three years. So my first question is to the Minister, what are the results of the last three years of pilot verification and why individual education was not preserved in the upcoming amendment to the School Act, as was previously envisaged. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u66	Thank you and now please to the microphone of Minister Chládek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u67	Thank you, Madam President. The answer will be very simple. In the draft amendment, it is not because it is a new proposal, it is a proposal of a new government that preserves individual, so-called. home education at first level and at second stage has been extended by its verification. The reason was that it was verified in my opinion of a smaller number of children, on a small sample, by the way, it concerns approximately some 475 children in the whole period of testing. Only six schools tested it. Since we have four and a half thousand elementary schools, I wanted to check with more schools, to see if there would be a problem, when we would put home education in second grade between all schools, and we wouldn't get into the problem that this system could be used in some way, which, of course, the possibilities are here, and if we were able to control home education at second level at all. Home education, as I said, we have a first degree, and I even expect it to be an alternative for pre-school education for the last mandatory year, but at the second stage my personal opinion is that it is necessary to verify this system in more schools and wait, too, because the results, as you have said, yes, are the same in three years, i.e. children have average to above average results, and we also need to verify when these children first enter our secondary schools. It's good to have feedback, what the results will be in high schools, when they get into the collective. The reason this is not in the novel is this: it is not the continuation of the novel Petr Fiala. If Petr Fiala really wanted domestic education to be introduced at second level, he had a year and a half to enforce this amendment by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u68	I thank the Minister and ask if he is interested in the supplementary question. That's right. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u69	I perceive, and I think that the public and the public also perceive, the dislike of introducing individual education to the second degree, as the Minister has clearly declared. On the other hand, this attitude puts you in the role of a smart hobby, because you have tested and piloted to verify individual education, even though you do not want to go on in reality. So my question is, if the results are good, what makes you think you're defending a pluralistic education that would put us among modern countries where such opportunities exist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u70	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Madam, although I love you very much, I think you are not quite right now, because I do not prevent it, although I frankly say that home education at second level is a matter that I personally hesitate to go to all primary schools. I don't think primary schools are ready for this, they're not ready for homeschooling to control the dorms that they are. But it's more of a professional debate, it's not supposed to be one of the ministers' decisions. That's why I want this system checked out so we can get it checked out at more than six schools. That's the first thing. Thing two. We do not need to use home education as such at the second stage, because an individual approach is now possible. This means that a child who is long-term ill has the possibility of an individual educational plan, has the possibility of having a child for some other reason that it needs to be bullied at school, or that he is, on the contrary, a top athlete or an exceptionally gifted child, today the school has the possibility of an individual plan and can be included in a normal educational facility. But the fact that I personally don't like home education - I wouldn't say I don't like it - is probably a strong word, I think that home education at second grade is problematic. Because the second reason I don't like about it is the question of socialization, i.e. the child, as he does not meet the collective, can obviously have a major problem with social inclusion. But I'm saying it's more of a professional debate. If I were directly against him, I'd cancel the verification. On the contrary, I wanted to - and it's striking that we've been verifying it in six schools for seven years. Why don't we check it out at, like, 12, 20, 30, when we have four and a half thousand schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u72	Minister, I'm sorry, your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u73	Thank you for your benevolence, just one last sentence. I think domestic education can be very good for saving the state budget in the future. Let us cancel all schools and let everyone educate their offspring at home and be a second-level homeschooler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u74	Thank you and I now give the floor to Mrs Kovářová, who was drawn in third place, to present oral interpellation to the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u75	Thank you. Dear Minister, some time ago, the mayor of Kraslice approached me with a question which you are the correct addressee of. Since it has considerable overlap, I decided to present it in the form of an interpellation. So allow me to interpret the mayor's question. What worries the citizens of Kraslice? Among other things, the tax office provides less and less services there. The current situation is that the beautiful workplace is only open on Monday and Wednesday, and only as a mailroom. This also seems unsatisfactory because the local business sector is growing and the population is being stabilized. It is therefore quite understandable that there is an interest in the financial office providing services to the extent that it was set up after 2003. The promised overlap lies in the fact that the public administration system set up since 2003 should guarantee the accessibility of certain public services to the citizens of municipalities located in the administrative district of a particular municipality with extended scope. Among them, the activities of the financial authorities. [[16.20 hours]] Dear Minister, would you like to extend the range of services provided by the Department of the Financial Administration in Kraslice? And if not, can this be seen as a sneaking restriction on some of the public services in the countryside that we know from the case of the Czech Post? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u76	Thank you. And now I give the floor to Mr Holečka, who will give an oral interview to the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u77	Dear Minister, as Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Privacy, I am very concerned about reports on the situation in diagnostic institutions, which once again penetrate the media and the public at an increased frequency. This is the procedure of the Ministry of Interior, which led in 2004 research into further development of young people after leaving school establishments for the performance of institutional education or protective education under the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of 25. 8. 2004. In connection with him, he processed data on the convictions of those persons for the crimes committed by them, without their consent. The combination of the data obtained from institutions for the performance of institutional education or protective education into a single file and their further retention together with other personal data obtained from municipalities with extended scope even after the research output was submitted to the Government of the Czech Republic, the Office for Personal Data Protection found it illegal. This was further confirmed by the municipal court, but the Supreme Administrative Court recently annulled everything by its judgment. In the light of the alarming state in diagnostic institutions, which is now stated and the information about it made available to the public, the question arises as to how much research, which significantly breached the privacy of a whole group of people, was effective. How much prevention is not obscured by the unwillingness to respect the Data Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u78	Thank you, and now I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u79	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague mentioned, this is research from 2004, so it is a situation from ten years ago, yet let me comment on this argument. The colleague mentions that the Supreme Administrative Court annulled the judgment of the Municipal Court and the decision of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, which then confirmed the sanction against the Ministry of the Interior, including the financial penalty. I want to add that the Supreme Administrative Court has given the Ministry of the Interior the truth on two fundamental issues. Firstly, the data with which the Ministry of Interior worked after anonymity was not qualified by the Supreme Administrative Court as information of a personal nature, since the external observer could not identify which person it was. That is what I think is fundamental in the entire Supreme Administrative Court judgment. This means, therefore, that the data has been treated in such a way that the data cannot be assigned to a specific person. The Supreme Administrative Court also admitted, respectively. confirmed to the Ministry of the Interior the power to prevent and conduct research on juvenile behaviour under the initial use of their personal data, directly under the competence law. In fact, if the Ministry of the Interior is to carry out preventive activities, it must have input information. Once again, this survey has been done in such a way that it is not possible to link specific information with a specific person. At least this is how the Supreme Administrative Court verdicts speak. In addition to the financial aspect of the case, the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court for the Ministry of the Interior has an important precedent for carrying out further research. I can say for myself here that we will be very serious in further research also assess the protection of personal data and the protection of personality as such. Towards the Office for Personal Data Protection, we believe that this office must also respect the decisions of an independent court, respectively. The Supreme Administrative Court in this case and the conclusions of the caselaw and should also adapt its activities to this case law, not to the decision of the Supreme Court to refuse and to continue its legally overturned practice repeatedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u80	Thank you. [[The President looks intently at Mr Holeček as to whether he is interested in the supplementary question. He's suggesting that he doesn't.]] The Member is not interested in an additional question. Excellent. We will therefore proceed to the next interpellation to which Mr Klučka is registered. She will interpel the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Minister - Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u81	Beautiful. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. And I will surprise you all with my speech. I'm just pulling an interpellation on the secretary at the moment. I am therefore giving more opposition Members the opportunity to have their interpelations brought to them, with the fact that I may assume that I still have some performance with priority rights during the intercession, so I will take advantage of the possibility of discussing this matter with the Minister immediately after this time in person and in vain here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So we note that you're withdrawing your interpellation. I am now giving the floor to Mr Vojtěch Adam, who will interpel Mr Chládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u83	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The minister is coming. I thought I was gonna lose him. My question is or concerns the future of the Moto GP World Championship in Brno as part of a traditional event that has been taking place for more than 50 years. It is not at all certain whether this year will be the last year to go. Of course, as always, it's about money. In this case, the so-called postage fee for the Dorna Sports promoter so that the World Cup can take place on our territory at all. In a situation where demand clearly exceeds the offer of organizing sites, including their financial collateral, it is dangerous to give up the organizing, because it would never come back. A number of documents and arguments have been submitted to support and maintain one of the most important sports companies taking place in the Czech Republic, including economic ones. Automotodrom Brno announced at the beginning of May to the promoter of the Championship that he did not secure financing of the World Championship Moto GP in 2014 or in the following years, and if there is no change, he would be forced to ask the promoter to remove the race from the World Championship calendar. In fact, the newly established National Sports Council refused to include the Moto GP World Championship race among major sports events and thus from the state guaranteed grant program. [[What's ……]] By this decision, the system for financing major sporting events has been completely denied. In the Moto GP World Cup series there are only three organizers from 18, where the state does not provide guarantees: Motegi in Japan under the patronage of Honda, Mugello in Italy, where the plant finances Ferrari, and the Czech Republic. Let us not allow the demise of such an important traditional beneficial enterprise as the Brno Motorcycle World Championship, beneficial not only for the region, but especially for the Czech Republic. Few events provide it with worldwide promotion. I'd just like to ask what the situation looks like a few days before they have to make a final decision on the next few years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u84	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time. Thank you. And now I ask the Minister to answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u85	Thank you, Madam President. The story is much more complex and problematic. She is also on the side of the Autoclub of the Czech Republic and the organization. If I go completely to the effect, then I think that there is mainly a problem of some interrelationship, where these two organizations are unable to agree for one simple reason. We cannot send funds to this event other than through national authority. And the national authority is the Autoclub Czech Republic. Perhaps from the past you know, one of my predecessors, Ex-minister Dobeš decided that the national authority was someone else, and by decision he thought he would change the cycle that he is. It turned out that Autoclub Czech Republic won a litigation and the Ministry of Education now pays CZK 100,000 for the decision. It's just to illustrate the situation. [[16.30 hours]] The National Sports Council did not refuse to include Moto GP in major events, but could not include it there. And she couldn't put it there for one simple reason - because they weren't able to send a request even in time. And since they sent her after the deadline, they didn't actually meet the terms and couldn't be among the actions. But that wouldn't be a problem, either, because I've decided from the Minister's position that they'll get 20 miles. CZK from the Ministry of Education. By the way, they've never been paid more than some $24 million. Twenty million, but I want a guarantee, and I want to point out here, I want a guarantee that the funds will be used transparently and that they will definitely go to the listing fee. The problem there is also that it is organized by a private company, and the discussion that took place at the National Council between individual subjects, was the debate whether these fans are really 210,000 or 150, and if they really are such a profit for the Czech Republic. But that's more like a professional seminar, too. With the fact that I want a guarantee from the Autoclub of the Czech Republic that if I send the funds to the Autoclub, they'll send them to the listing fee. I've already received the letter, the guarantee here is that they'll get the money this way. Well, since we've been talking to Moto GP's representatives, that's not enough, I've taken the next step. Now, on Wednesday, the material goes to the government, where I ask the government to separate 20 million more from the reserve, which means they'd get 20 plus 20. I was very happy to send a text to the director that there will be up to 40 million crowns of support from a state that has never been in the past. The headmistress wrote me, answered, and on purpose I turned it over, that it doesn't concern them, that they want 78 million. That half is small and that it is for them as if we had not sent them anything. At that point, however, we are faced with a decision as to whether an action of this type is to be paid by the Ministry of Education as a sport. We can contribute to this, but I think that much more is the promotion of tourism. So it would be more systematic, and I also mention in the material that long-term funding should be planned for the future, but from a chapter other than sport. This means, for example, from MMR, or when it's motorcycles, from traffic. If it's from sport, we can put $100 million in it, but we have to assume it's at the expense of the other events, because of the one package I have, I have to cover all the actions that are there. Including the important event that was needed this week Golden Tretra in Vítkovice, next year the World Hockey Championship, and so on, and so on. So it's just a drawing. Communication really isn't easy, but now the material is ready, which if it's approved, they should get the support of 40 million. But I'm afraid that won't be enough for the organizers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u86	Thank you, Minister, and I ask the honourable Member. He's interested in asking an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u87	Thank you for your answer. This will not be an additional question, rather a statement to really find in the future a system of financing such important events, so that I think this basically awkward situation may never have to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u88	I beg the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u89	Thank you. I'll be more specific. The most embarrassing thing is that two people can't make a deal between each other. I'll be specific, too. In my opinion, the problem is the relationship between Mr. Ječmínek and Mr. Abraham. And the Czech Republic is involved, and the Czech Republic has to wonder if it will support this event, how much. I am in favour because I have visited the event, but at the same time I think we must make it clear that the funds must be earmarked for a specific matter, there must be a transparent, transparent billing. And we need to have a clear picture of whether the real benefit is one-and-a-half billion, or if it's just an estimate, because of course the action is of great importance. For example, he will bring some funds to the tax system in the weekend - why shouldn't the state support it? But I think that there is also a question for the Chamber of Deputies, because this is a long-term perspective and the Chamber of Deputies should clearly say yes, this action, which I would say is of an oversporting nature, we will remove from the support of common sporting events and we will support it as the Czech Republic with an exceptional item of CZK 78 or 100 million, with it having to be separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u90	Thank you and I am now giving the floor to Mr Zbyněk Stanjur, who was drawn as the seventh and will interpel the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u91	Thank you. Well, an hour and a half ago, we were debating how it's a chance to debate with the ministers or with the prime minister. The minister apologized for work reasons? I'd accept that apology if he was abroad. It's obviously not. He had enough time to comment extensively on my press conference about two hours ago, and he doesn't have enough time to come to the interview. But I'm gonna ask him those questions, and I hope he answers. One. Why, Minister, are you convinced that you need a project manager for the toll system? Two. Why are you convinced that the myth can operate the ŘSD? Three. When are you gonna make contracts with a wanted project manager? Until when will the project manager present the results of his work? When will you submit a proposal for a solution to the Government of the Czech Republic? Four. Do you personally prefer to maintain the existing range of toll roads and motorways, or do you propose any extension? Five. Do you personally support the award of a contract with prescribed technology or technologically neutral? And six. You are able to guarantee the Chamber of Deputies that a new toll system operator will compete in time and properly so that on 1 January 2017 there will be no problem, or so-called. to extend the existing contract in time distress? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u92	I thank the honourable Member and now give the floor to Mrs Gabriela Pecková, who will interpel the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u93	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to jump into some catastrophic scenarios about reducing wage resources in the contribution organisations of the Ministry of Culture. For one thing, I hope there hasn't been any definitive decision, and secondly, I feel that it just wouldn't be possible anymore. So more or less, I would like to draw attention to and appeal to an absolutely unsustainable state where our world experts have salaries lower than the average salaries in the Czech Republic. For example, castelans are not able to pay rents from these salaries in the objects they manage, so they are often forced to move elsewhere. Even if it doesn't have to be, it's not a luxury. Try to heat the chamber in the medieval castle in winter. Indeed, this also costs them considerable resources, but unfortunately they cannot afford it either. They are moving away, which, of course, is an almost necessary 24-hour presence for these objects. They end up doing the job because they're driven by their enthusiasm and enthusiasm. With these people, the whole world learns monument care. They sit in international committees where world cultural heritage is decided. I am convinced, Minister, that you are aware of the situation, so I am asking if you have the tools to convince the Minister of Finance, Mr Babiš, that our cultural institutions, our national cultural monuments are our sea and that the funds invested in them will return many times. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u94	Thank you for respecting the time limit and please respond to the Minister of Culture. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you very much for the introduction, for what she said. Of course, I am well aware of the situation, because it really is very complicated. Just so you know, I'd say a few numbers. On average, our contribution organizations are roughly 3000 below the salary average in the Czech Republic. For your information, such as the Technical Museum Brno has an average salary of CZK 15,224, the Wallachian Museum Rožnov 16 303, the Terezín Memorial 16 577 and I could repeat or browse the entire list. So the situation is really serious and we are conducting intense negotiations. At this point, I must say that we have reached a significant agreement that we will be given 112 million back to the budget. for salaries, which is a positive report. And I firmly believe that we will get to the level that will be acceptable in further negotiations. [[16.40 hours]] According to the framework proposal submitted, the Ministry of Culture is responsible for the expenditure framework of 10,041 billion for 2015. CZK, representing 0.89 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget. When assessing the amount of the budget, it should be noted that the Ministry of Culture is committed to certain expenditures and cannot reduce them. The largest amount is 3.5 billion. CZK represents expenditure under Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies, which account for about 40 percent of the total expenditure of our chapter. The Ministry of Culture must also cover expenditure on research, development and innovation in the planned amount of about 0.5 billion. Crowns. The Ministry also fulfills its obligations with regard to abroad and in connection with the membership of the Czech Republic in certain organizations and the 29 contribution organisations to which we have to fulfil the obligations of the founder. The budget of our chapter for 2015 is based on data from the medium-term perspective approved by the Chamber of Deputies in 2013. In the medium term, there was a first reduction when the 2015 budget was reduced by an amount of 1 074 628 thousand compared to the 2014 budget. Crowns. In April 2014, the Ministry of Finance made a second reduction, with a further 148 244,000 reduction compared to the medium term. Crowns. This reduced the overall budget for 2015 by an amount of 1 223 873 thousand. CZK and that amount would be in the amount of 8 678 616 thousand. Crowns. Indicator of contribution organisations set up by: The Ministry of Culture has decreased by around 298 million, which would have a negative impact on the budgets of the contribution organisations as well as on their own activities. This was also based on a letter from the Director of the Economics Department, which, of course, alarmed the director of our contribution organizations. This was based on the formally known facts, which are based on the reduction proposed by the Ministry of Finance chapters as a basic input for government negotiations on medium-term expenditure frameworks. Letters with the capture of the last known facts have been sent to the contribution organisations in order to allow discussion of the proposal. Otherwise, it would not be possible to take into account in any way the specifics of certain contribution organisations. But I would remind you that the letters sent contain only an introductory proposal which, as in the previous year, the Ministry of Culture assumes to complete in cooperation with the contribution organisations. The first particular fetus, as I said, is the 112 miles returned. The koruna right on the salaries. I am convinced that if cooperation and communication with the Ministry of Finance evolves as before, we will reach some kind of limit of survival, although, of course, in the government's programming statement, there is 1%, which we are only approaching remotely so far. So thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u96	Thank you, Minister. I ask the lady - does she want to ask an additional question? It's not like that. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Nytrová, who was drawn as the ninth with an interview with Minister Prachař. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u97	Dear absent Minister of Transport, let me ask you about the issue of building a noise-resistant wall on the road number I/56 in the local part of Hodonovice, the municipality of Baška. I was approached by the civic association Pro Hodonovice. In the long run, the local population suffers from stressful environments of excessive noise with a clear impact on their health. They take all the legal steps that should lead to the resolution of their difficult situation. Unfortunately, to this day, it hasn't been a success. The objective of the construction of noise barriers along the road I/56 in the village of Baška, the local part of Hodonovice, is to reduce the sanitary limits in the protected outdoor area of adjacent buildings and to improve overall their living conditions. Minister, I hereby ask you to state why the problem of excessive traffic noise on I/56 in Baška, the local part of Hodonovice, has not been resolved since 2007 when high noise values have been measured. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u98	Thank you. And now I give the floor to Mrs Dana Váhalová, who comes with an interview with Minister Mládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u99	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable ministers and esteemed Minister Mládek, I have been informed that the discussion of support for the rural economy in the Czech Republic from European funds has complicated itself in the Ministry of Industry. This is specifically the OP Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness 2014 to 2020. I would like to know whether the Ministry of Industry and Trade has included micro-enterprises in this operational programme through the LEADER programme and local action groups. Minister, I would like to ask you to support small business, to support small and medium-sized businesses in our rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u100	I thank the Member and now I give the floor to Mr Petr Adam, who will interpel the Minister of Education Chládek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u101	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my intervention is directed to the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek and concerns a very special situation around the private Karel Engliš University in Brno. Dear Minister, the administrative proceedings are not public by law. How is it possible that the Accreditation Commission, contrary to this legal principle, is leaking information about its partial opinions on the ongoing administrative proceedings led by the Ministry of Education? This is specifically a proceeding with the Karel Engliš High School. This information may be damaged by the entities concerned and in such a case the State shall be liable for the damage caused. Information is unlawfully provided by the Secretary of the Commission, an employee of the Ministry of Education. I hereby refer to yesterday's published information in the Brno daily, where specific citations are given by the secretary of the commission Jiří Smrček. What steps will you take, Minister, to ensure the legal principle of non-publicity of this procedure in the context of accreditation administrative procedures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u102	Thank you, and I ask for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u103	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would recommend to the honourable Member, given that he has witnessed some illegal action to file a criminal report, which is his duty. And the second thing - the Accreditation Commission. The Accreditation Commission is an independent body, so it must remain, because the Ministry of Education cannot interfere with the independent decision of the Accreditation Commission, because then we would get into a situation such as that. The Minister of Education will decide which higher education is to be accredited or not. But if I may, I will stop at this issue. I'll recap for the others. The Accreditation Commission found serious shortcomings in Karel Engliš University and it was in the fields of economy and business law, business management and then security legal activity in public administration and protection technology of persons and property. On this basis, it proposed to limit accreditation. The restriction is that they cannot, in principle, accept new applicants for study on the basis of this Decision. The school appealed against that. Then, on 16 to 18 June, a further discussion of the Accreditation Commission, which stated that serious deficiencies had not been resolved, continued to insist on limiting accreditation. Administrative proceedings are now under way at the Ministry of Education. This has not yet been completed, i.e. I cannot anticipate or describe the administrative course. And he will, of course, decide on the next course of action. And in the end, to the very beginning. We need to see if there's really been, or if there's been any leaks, because the Accreditation Commission report, which I currently have in my hands, is even posted on the Accreditation Commission's website and is publicly available. So if there's any information from this report in the press, I haven't read the article, but if there's any news in the press, I don't think there's any leak because the message is publicly available.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u104	Thank you. The Member is not interested in asking an additional question. I am now giving the floor to Mr Josef Zahradníček, who was drawn as the twelfth in the order of the interview to Minister Michaela Marksová. It is not present, you have the opportunity to load or download into its presence. So please load.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u105	Have a good afternoon. Dear absent Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, my brief interpellation will focus on the way and raising pensions. I apologise in advance if you have already spoken or answered this question, but in my opinion and opinion many of the older citizens of this country, the repetition of the mother of wisdom and the possible explanation of this problem is always appropriate. And not only would I like to hear your position and your ministry's position. My question is: Do you think the existing system of raising pensions is solidarity and theoretically fair? Wouldn't it be better to increase pensions uniformly by the same amount of money for all pensioners? I believe that everyone who asks for it has already taken due account of its merits in the decision on the amount of their pension. If I'm wrong, correct me. The cost of living for each pensioner and each of us is the same. Or is it true: who has a higher pension, a higher wage, has a higher basic cost of living to meet the basic needs of life? This is, for example, the price of water and sewerage, electricity prices, gas and basic food. Is it possible and what needs to be done in order to establish a fixed financial amount for all pensioners in the same way? The system would become simpler, fairer and, above all, cheaper. Or is it the rule that all pensioners are equal, but some are more equal? Thank you for your answer and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now give the floor to Mrs Markéta Adamová, who was drawn as the thirteenth with my interpellation to the Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u107	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Nice ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Dear Minister, I have already consulted you on the revival of the National Library project according to the project by architect Jan Kaplický in writing. Thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, I want to go further on this subject, especially because the topic lives with its own life in the media and is widely discussed by the citizens of Prague 8 - Karlín and Libně, where I also live and am a member of the management of this part of the city. The whole project is of course also interested in the professional and lay public. Although I am not an expert on urbanism or architecture, I am really very concerned about how to treat a work that was intended for a completely different purpose and for a completely different location. The architectural design of the National Library was based on the location on Letná, i.e. on an elevated location. The location on Rohan Island in a flood area, not elevated, is completely against the original plan. Also announced is a change in the purpose of the building. Although I do not doubt that Prague deserves modern architecture and cultural centre, I doubt that the whole effort to revive this project is motivated by the motivation to provide Prague, Pražan and visitors to the capital with another such cultural stand and modern architecture. The aim of the project is based on the motivation of the developer, who, by the way, is sponsor of your party Luděk Sekyra, to draw attention to the Megalomaniac Rohan City project in a period of difficult real estate market situation. Getting that kind of publicity is something that any developer can only dream about. And you, in my opinion, are giving it to him. You claim that all the elements of this intention will only be discussed, but the publicity that this project receives in the media space is already sufficient. So even if the whole plan were to come together, the purpose for the developer and sponsor of the KDU-ČSL was fulfilled. In written answer to my questions about how location, purpose, copyright... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So I'm just gonna try to ask you a question. You said the whole thing was prenatal. So I want to ask who you're going to invite to the task force you want to create, and if you honestly think that in this case it's not just a handsome PR developer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u108	Thank you. Now I ask for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u109	Madam President, colleagues, once again and at this point I thank the Member for her interest in this subject. I would like to submit that the idea of building a library, Mr. architect Kaplický's Kaplický, has never actually died completely, although it began to take various stages and paths since 2007. I had the honour of knowing Mr. Architect personally, because at that time I even worked at the Ministry of Culture, I met him and I had the opportunity to talk to him about various aspects of his work and I have to say that he won me as a member of his own, we can say in quotation marks, fan club. But now, on to your question. As you said yourself, Madame, I am also convinced that Prague deserves the construction of the 21st century in the field of culture, as Kaplický Kaplický certainly is. The revival of this project is led mainly by a general attempt to preserve the architectural heritage for future generations contain modern trends from the pen of Czech authors. I believe that these modern buildings will attract many foreign tourists to Prague and other Czech cities, as is the case in other cities abroad, where, for example, Kaplickýý's unique projects have already been implemented. As for the location of the building, I must say that the idea of Rohan Island was merely a backup idea. At a time when the Plane seemed to be completely out of the picture due to the construction of the Blanka Tunnel, alternatives were sought. Eliška Kaplicky, whom I also know, tried to find different variants, and one of them was Rohanský Island. Of course, when President Miloš Zeman entered the whole process very actively, and also on the basis of the interviews that I conducted with him personally on this subject, and on the basis of media statements, when he said that he would enforce the possibility of returning the blob to the Letenský plain, it is, of course, priority No. One that we would try to do in the first place. Again, the variants that were mentioned, whether it was Rohanský Island or Smíchov, were only variants of backup, which were supposed to substitute the impossibility of building this project in its original place. As for Dr. Sekyra, whom Mrs. Eliška Kaplicky has just introduced me to, he has been very helpful to the whole project and is trying to help. It's certainly not some cheap advertising because I don't think he needs anything like that, because he's a very capable builder of a number of interesting projects that are not discussed. As for some connection with the sponsoring KDU-ČSL, this is a completely transparent matter that has been publicly communicated from the very beginning. On the contrary, I think that this is an interesting way for other actors, so that the support of political parties is done in such a transparent and clear manner and does not raise any side issues. This means that I am really very happy that the idea of Letná is coming back again, and I think it would be good for us to meet in some broader grémium all those who want to participate in this project somehow. Yes, you said, and so I wrote it, and so it's also that the whole thing is currently at some prenatal stage of development. I am considering calling a working group in some short and longest medium term, and I will be very happy to be able to work together on this because I think that this is really a highly over-party topic, which should once again make Prague not a very suitable term, but to increase its prestige as a destination attractive to millions of people from all over the world, as it is today and as the citation of the Minister of Culture of Pavel Tigrid has already been made here, that the monuments are our sea. So even these magnets of new architecture will certainly increase its attractiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u110	Thank you, Minister. Now I ask the lady with an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's not a question, it's more of a request. If the option of Letná is not realized after all and it is considered Karlína, please contact Prague 8 and involve us in the solution and in the working group. You called it in, I welcome it, and I'd like to be a part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u112	I beg the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u113	Of course, I, too, welcome this willingness. That would be perfectly understandable. Of course, the urban part in which such an important work should be carried out would have to be involved. And the fact that this hasn't happened yet is really due to the prenatal stage of development and the fact that at this point it really seems that once again the real game is the original location on Letná. There are still many questions, but I think that goodwill is able to create a very interesting synergy in favour of this interesting construction, and thank you again for your offer of cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u114	I thank the Minister and now give the floor to Mr Korte, who will interpel the Minister of the Interior of the Chovanec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u115	Thank you. Minister, Russia, by its aggression against Ukraine, the occupations and annexation of Crimea, part of Ukraine, by the support of separatists, even military subversive actions that it passes for civil war in eastern, south-eastern Ukraine, violates international law, as well as international agreements which it has voluntarily committed itself to, in a peaceful view of the UN, a rather unnecessary organisation, as well as OSCE, an organisation that is even more useless. President Putin is implementing his doctrine, which is derived from the doctrine of Brežněvův and says: Russia is everywhere the Rus are. This also means in Karlovy Vary, Vinohrady, Břevnov etc. From this, Minister, my question logically follows: What have you done, virtually. Do you intend to take measures to restrict the issue of visas to the citizens of the Russian Federation and to revoke the permanent residence permit for those who have it? Because it is evident that the Rus here represent a security risk to the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u116	Thank you, and now I beg the Minister's response. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u117	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, information from secret services that I cannot, unfortunately, present here, I do not have the impression that the situation would be the extent that Mr Korte, through Madam President, is talking about. We are currently taking measures in relation to individuals when they are evaluated by the security structures of the Czech Republic as persons who could commit criminal activity in the Czech Republic and with these procedures are initiated. The selection of Russian Federation citizens is not appropriate, it is not necessary. And I would like to remind you that there are a lot of Rus living here who do business here, who work here and who, from my point of view, are for the benefit of Czech society. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u118	Thank you and I see that the Member is interested in asking an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u119	Dear Minister, I think that we should not rely solely on impressions in matters of security. I understand that there is a very strong economic subtext, which is why I want to ask you this question: If we are facing an alternative, whether to live in relative poverty but freely or in relative prosperity, but as a Moscow vasal under Putinův's nut, I choose the first. And you, Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u120	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u121	I do not quite know if Mr Korte, through Madam President, has awakened in another world, because I have been living as part of the EU for a few years and I am very happy for that. [[entertainment]] This means that I choose the third alternative, and this is an EU citizen who, in fact, takes care of the EU's views in relation to our partners outside the EU. And the European Union is exactly the same as the Czech Republic, which means that we will evaluate the security risks that will detect our security structures and structures of our partners precisely. I would like to remind you that, at almost every session of the Chamber of Deputies, we approve an international treaty that helps us fight money laundering, international crime and other types of crime, including with the Russian Federation, we have concluded these international agreements. This means that I do not see and say again, my view of the world this way, my colleague, I choose option three - to live reasonably as a Evropan within the EU and, of course, as a proud Čech. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u122	I thank the Minister, and now I give the floor to Mrs Jana Fischerová, who was drawn as the fifteenth, and I ask her to present her intervention on the Minister of Transport to Prachař.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u123	Dear Minister of Transport, during this day, during the interview to Prime Minister Sobotka and then to you, the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura has already intersected on this matter, so I will now just narrow myself to two things. It is because I also meet with the mayors of different municipalities and cities and they have asked me in terms of road myth, how it will be in the future, what your vision of the Ministry of Transport is. And then I'll just say their specific questions directly. That's what I'm gonna narrow down to in my interpellation. Are you counting on expanding the existing toll network? Will the toll be collected on all roads of the first class or only on selected sections? And if that's what? You're also thinking about expanding to Highway II. and III. Class? Do you also consider extending the myth to passenger cars? And when will the assignment be completed so that the tender can be completed safely in time? I follow with this my interpellation the words of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and please, if possible, also send me a copy of the reply to the Member and add answers to my questions. I read a press release on the website of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic, a statement from 10 June when part of this is answered, but it is not enough for me. So thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u124	I thank the Member and now I give the floor to Mr Petr Gazdík, who will give an interview to the Minister of Transport Antonín Prachař. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u125	Dear absent Minister Prachař, your plan to amend the Land Purchase Act has practically stopped the preparation of buildings and today we should not only worry about drawing up the Operational Programme Transport Even in the previous EU planning period, but also on the drawing-up of the Transport II operational programme in the new EU planning period, when the preparation plans are beginning to be crucially delayed. In this context, you can tell us how much land has been bought out since you gave your own media compliments and 14. 5. 2014 on the Parliamentary Lists server did you say how you will contribute to the stabilisation of the resort? How did you prepare a change? You have also informed some of the chosen ones that you will award even 16 times the price. Do you know by which key you will choose the chosen ones? In this context, I would also like to ask you how your negotiations with Mrs Havránková ended, which you personally went to convince to sell the land before you own it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u126	I thank the Vice-President and now I give the floor to Mr Radek Vondráček, who will present his interview to the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u127	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm lucky to have the Minister here. What does a member of the government party have to do to interpel the minister? We have been in this House in relatively, relatively recently witnessed three turbulent discussions in deciding to issue or not to issue one of us for criminal prosecution. All these discussions eventually slipped on a single subject, and that was some obstruction of the police procedure, doubts about the independence of the police, doubts about the purpose of filing criminal charges, which, of course, we cannot influence, but the purpose of communicating the charges and then delaying further proceedings, which may lead to the destruction of criminally prosecuted persons. I would remind you that this is essentially the official majority opinion of Members, which ultimately led to the fact that Mrs Kailová, a colleague, was not given a criminal prosecution precisely because of the concern that there are some non-standard procedures in the investigation of the Police of the Czech Republic. So I would like to ask you in this form how the Ministry of the Interior has dealt with this information, and if we can expect any measures on this issue. Because even if we do not change any legal regulation, there are certainly a number of instruments that we can use to improve this, say, bad reputation of law enforcement authorities. It's not from my head, but here we have heard it across the political spectrum that there are serious doubts about some of the Police of the Czech Republic's procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u128	Thank you, honourable Member. I'd like an answer from the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear fellow Members, I just don't know if this interpelation should be directed rather than directed at Mrs Válková, but so be it. I think that the excesses that we've witnessed and that you're describing here concern me, too. I always tell the cops at the meetings that their actions can't end with a monstrous press conference, but they have to end with a conviction in court, and that we should keep those monstrous press releases after the court decides. That's the police's job. She should work very carefully and systematically to get a possible criminal into court and to be convicted. On the other hand, I would like to stand up for the police, because all these things are under the authority of the state's attorney. The State Attorney is the authority in the dispute, which is the master of criminal preparatory proceedings, and, of course, the police will find it difficult to disclose the charges without the prosecutor knowing about it, to supervise the matter and to get acquainted with the entire scope of the investigation. The D.A. is tasking a police officer with further operations, further investigation and other matters. So I guess that's a question common to me and my colleague Válková. We have established several working groups on several topics such as the recodification of the criminal code and other things. On the other hand, on the other hand, I would like to emphasise once again that the prosecutor is the one who oversees the entire process before the prosecution and subsequently the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u130	Thank you, Minister. I ask whether Mr Vondráček wants to complete the question. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u131	Basically, I agree with the Minister on everything. What he said answers. Nevertheless, the prosecutor is also working with some material that the policeman is preparing for him and is based on some information. I would perhaps just add - how do you perceive the excess of reporting charges? There is such a disorder that currently exists that accusations are also reported in the situation, which would not have happened a few years ago. And of course, there is also a question for Minister Válková as regards the prosecutor's office, and I am considering whether I will put it in this or another form, but what do you say to the fact that the police have something to do with the fact that, at the very beginning of the prosecution, it is her evidence, her conclusions of the inquiry with which she then works by the state prosecutor, and the question was meant to be friendly. What can we do about this within the Police of the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u132	I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u133	Thank you. I would not expect an enemy question from a coalition Member, so I must say. On the other hand, I can hardly argue here whether there are many charges or not. The question will be - you ask about bigger cases - how they end up in court, and this will be a guide to the success of law enforcement authorities. On the other hand, if the D.A. and the police are suspected of committing crimes, they simply have to act. The court, if it doubts whether the defendant or the defendant is guilty in a court of law, must acquit, on the contrary, the prosecutor - the principle is that if he suspects that a criminal activity has been committed, he must act. And the police, I'm going to say this very figuratively, is a servant of the state's attorney to get to the truth. Of course, the police bring their own operational information, and the police, of course, have a variety of ways to investigate some things, but then, if it goes to a stage under the authority of the state's attorney and leads to charges, it is clearly the state's attorney in that matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u134	Thank you, Minister. I am now giving the floor to Mr Rom Kostřic, who was drawn as the eighteenth and will interpel the Minister of Transport to Prachař. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u135	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I beg you, allow me, before you start counting down two minutes, one statement. I am following up on Mr Stanjura here and I am speaking about the absence of Minister Prachař. Out of the 24 winning interviews, 8 of them are heading for Minister Prachař. That means that each third is basically useless. We're not curious here to learn an answer that will be smashed up by ministerial servants. These interpelations are also relevant in order to know if the interpelled is sufficiently informed and therefore competent to handle its function. Now, allow me to proceed with my interpellation. Dear absent Minister, absent from work - it impresses me as if he despised not me, but despised the honour and seriousness of this House - I want to ask you about the timetable, not the time, when repairing the D1 motorway. I see a total disdain for Czech drivers and others because more than 40 km from the 200 km section is currently closed, which means that every 5 km is extremely dangerous, leading to increased accidents, leading to the threat to the lives of both drivers and all passengers. It seems that the Czech driver is able to bear everything. I have seen several similar repairs of the motorway in this way in Austria and I have never seen it closed there for a longer stretch than 4 km. It is, of course, an amazing thing that suits companies that repair this highway because to close a ten-mile stretch, to have two or three machines and the rest of the section is completely useless. I believe that these sections would need to be disproportionately shorter. It would certainly lead to a motorway rather than a shortcut. I have another question for you about the appointment of a new road manager -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u136	Ambassador, I'm sorry your time limit has run out. And I'll come back to your request. Now it's the point of interpelling, you each have two minutes to ask a question. Unfortunately, you don't have a priority right, so you really missed that limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u137	Madam Vice-President, I understand, I asked you to make a statement. If you'd told me that statement wasn't possible, I wouldn't have accepted it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u138	I am sorry, but I cannot make individual exceptions to the Rules of Procedure. It can't be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u139	I understand it quite well, but you could definitely inform me, because it's half of my interpelation, and then the next interpelation will be in September, if well, if the same minister is there, or I consider it wrong procedure, I'm sorry. But thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u140	Thank you. Now, please contact Mr Ludvík Hovorka's microphone, which was drawn as the 19th and will interpel Mr Němeček's Minister of Health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u141	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Mr Minister, your predecessor, Minister Holcát, has commissioned an audit of the management of the subsidiaries of the Hospital Na Homolce. As far as I know, this audit was completed by the Ministry of Health inspection department by the beginning of this year. During the interview in May, I requested that this audit be submitted, but I have not received it yet. Let me explain why I'm so interested in this audit. [[17.20 hours]] The administration of the State Hospital Na Homolce created a strange system of three business subsidiaries that provided all purchases and orders with appropriate premium for their parent hospital. At the same time, the hospital replaced the entire economic department with outsourcing to private accounting company Bialešová, s.r.o. In the bodies of subsidiaries Holte Medical, newly KTH Medical and Holte s.r.o. and Homolka Premium Care also met the executive of the private company Mrs.Bialešová and the lawyers of Šachta and Partners, who in a strange way obtained a contract for legal services for the hospital. Despite these companies controlled by strange people, funds of approximately 1 billion flowed. crowns a year. In 2009-2011, when I warned Prime Ministers of Finance and then Minister of Health Jurásková and then Minister Heger about tunneling public funds in Na Homolce Hospital, I received an answer that in the case of accounting outsourcing, a pilot project of the Ministry of Health is being carried out in directly managed hospitals, which saves CZK 30 million a year, without any analysis. I drew the attention of the SAO to theft of public funds, and in 2010 I filed a criminal complaint. After two years of the D.A.'s office, my filing was postponed. After exposing the influence of prosecutors - sweepers, such as Mr. Rampula and the case -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u142	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u143	- Mrs. Nagyová, I understand why to task certain people in the state administration. I therefore request an audit, an evaluation of the pilot project, and a responsibilities and punishment for specific culprits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u144	I thank you and now I give the floor to Mrs Jana Černochová, who was drawn as the 20th and will intersect the absent Minister Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u145	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent Minister, according to current legislation, if you are a winemaker, you have the opportunity to produce 2,000 litres of wine per year for your own use, which in practice means that you do not have to pay a tax on alcohol from 2,000 litres of wine as a winer. However, for homeowners, this limit is only 200 litres per year for their own use and without tax. In my opinion, this inequality has no logic, and I do not have the right to claim that someone can drink 2,000 litres of wine a year, or whether the average consumption of beer per capita of 150 litres should be a measure, and whether the owner of beer can count for his own use even beer for members of his family. I speak here as a beer maker, for which, as for winemakers, brewing beer is a passionate hobby. I was also alerted to the growing number of mini-breweries in our Republic, in which a large part, if not most, was founded by homemakers who decided to promote their hobby to a trade. I not only therefore consider the current legislation to be demotivating at this point, and I propose a fairer solution. That is why I am asking you, Minister, whether you are aware of this disharmony between the rules of winemakers versus beers and whether you will propose a solution, or whether you will support the proposal of the Civil Democratic Party that we are preparing, so that this disharmony will change and eliminate in the future. I'm asking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u146	I thank the Member for respecting the time limit, and I am now giving the floor to Mr Michal Kučer, who will intersect the absent Minister of Transport to Prachař. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u147	Thank you for your word. Dear absent Minister of Transport, you have recently said that in the next three years we will only build units of billions of crowns during the construction of the motorway network. Of course, I expect your response to the lack of readiness for construction and necessary legislative changes leading to the acceleration of construction of transport structures. I have to agree with that. The more I am concerned that you do not stop where the preparation is almost over. I would like to point out that, for example, the R7 expressway sections are ready for completion. However, the construction is stopped surprisingly by the Ministry of Transport. I would like to ask you to check the readiness of the R7 expressway section to remove pointless studies regarding the setting of the road width arrangement, which has already been decided a long time ago, and the accelerated start of the R7 expressway. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u148	I thank Mr Kučer and I now ask Mr Zdeněk Bezecný to read his interpellation to the absent Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u149	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, if Minister Prachař were here, I would ask him: Can you declare that you will complete the modernisation of the D1 motorway by the end of the year on at least three sections so that drivers are no longer restricted by other closures? I would also ask when the penalty for delay will be applied against the contractor of the D1 motorway modernisation section at Velké Bíteš, and how at least 200 million of the sanctions will be imposed. Is it dedicated to the construction company to speed up and deliver the section at least in 2015?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u150	Thank you and let me now tell you that Mrs Adamová, who was drawn as 23rd with an interview with the Minister of Culture, is withdrawing her intervention. I will now ask Mr Stanjura to read his interpellation for the Minister of Transport. Please, Minister - Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u151	It didn't offend me, but I wouldn't want to be a minister in this government. [[Laughing from the right side of the hall.]] I just want to say that I don't load the interpelations, that I'm saying them out of my head normally. Minister Prachař thinks that if he hides from us, we won't ask, or he won't have to answer. Remember when the Prime Minister died at 14.35, we have the right to ask ministers and not to waste our time. Now I don't know what we're playing. From the last four interviews, there are three to the Minister of Transport who isn't here. But I'm gonna ask those questions, and I believe I'm gonna get an answer. I asked about České dráhy: 1. How is it possible that a member and then a chairman of the Supervisory Board was elected his first deputy in violation of the applicable law. 2. Who will be responsible for this, personnel. 3. Is it known to him that in a similar case a member of his coalition party ČSSD Karel Březina is in court - precisely for these reasons? Then I want to ask - I read about the new remuneration of management of České dráhy. I don't want to speculate about the amount, it doesn't really belong here. However, I often hear the coalition's words about how to prevent contractual salaries and what will be the maximum remuneration in the state administration. After four and a half months, the amendment, or a new service law, arrived in the House. So how could he explain to all of us Members that, for example, in the case of the CEO of the Czech Railways, the remuneration is up to 60 per cent of the annual salary. Why do we apply a completely different approach to those who will be subject to the service law and those who will not be subject to the service law? And now I'm not really talking about the same salary, but about the same conditions as the basic salary and how much rewards can be. 60 percent of the salary - and it has been mentioned or explained by the fact that if it is well managed - I want to remind you that the Czech Railways receive 12 billion. subsidies per year from public budgets. In such a case, achieving balanced management is not so difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u152	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and I am now giving the floor to Mr Ludvík Hovorka to intersect the absent Minister of Health. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u153	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. It is common that every large hospital, or every hospital, has a microbiological laboratory. But in the case of Ostrava University Hospital, this is not the case. As far as I can tell, until recently, he was doing an Ostrava Medical Institute for Microbiological Investigations. Lately, I don't know if this contract is continuing, or why this hospital is not building its own microbiological laboratory, or how it is considered, where these contracts will be awarded in the future. I think that it is very common at the moment, that many things are outsourced and that it is not always beneficial for medical devices, which are losing very considerable resources in this case. Unless, of course, there is an outsourcing of some significant, let's say, a private company that operates in the region. Business around the labs is quite profitable. We have seen this in the case of many laboratories that have simply, within a few years, been able to increase their turnover very much. Therefore, I ask you to answer me why such a large hospital, such as the Ostrava University Hospital, does not have its own microbiological laboratory and how it wants to address it in the future when it comes to microbiological examinations. Thank you for answering my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u154	Thank you and I am now giving the floor to Mr Zdeněk the Bezecný, who will interpel the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u155	Thank you again. Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the preparation of the 2015 budget, the directors of the contribution organisations of the Ministry of Culture have been informed of the proposed reduction in contributions to the operation of these organisations. This proposal was not discussed with the Director in advance but was dictated as a binding limit for drawing up the draft budget for 2015. There has been a significant reduction in funds, particularly in wages, within these limits. The salaries of the employees of the contribution organisations are now well below the average wage, even scissors between the salaries of employees of similar organizations established by the region or cities. Most organizations, mostly museums and galleries, have already exhausted the possibilities of operating and wage savings, e.g. in combination with a reduction in staff status and a flat-rate reduction in salaries. I am pleased, as my colleague Pecková's reply has already shown, that you are paying attention to this issue, and I believe that it will be possible to remedy it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u156	I thank the honourable Member and I ask for the Minister's reply. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u157	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, I also thank Mr Bezecný for his support in this matter, because I have already mentioned this in my previous contribution, the letter from the Director of the Economics Department was based on formally known facts based on the reduction of the proposed chapters by the Ministry of Finance as a basic input for the government's discussions on medium-term expenditure frameworks. The letters captured the last known facts, were distributed to the contribution organisations to enable discussion of the proposal. Otherwise, it would not be possible to take into account in any way the specifics of certain contribution organisations. As I said, the letters contained only an introductory proposal which, as in previous years, the Ministry of Culture assumes to complete in cooperation with these contributory organisations. If we hadn't informed the director of our 29 contribution organizations, we could have put them in a very bad situation. I am not saying that this letter has pleased them in some way, but it has put them at least into reality and also indicated the need to look for savings, because in our entire resort it is necessary to look for savings. For the time being, we have found savings of about CZK 35 million directly at the Ministry, and further savings will be found on the basis of negotiations that I have with my co-workers from the Economics Department. I think that we need to think about a serious economic situation, as far as, let's say, repre-funds, etc. are concerned. However, as I said in my previous contribution, the contribution to salaries was equal to CZK 112 million, and according to the Minister of Finance's communication, which he said directly at the government meeting, this volume will be returned to our budget, which will mean the sustainability of the level that it is. However, this is not an optimal report, because I know, and we have also talked about it, that salaries in our contribution organisations are unfortunately moving deep, in some cases, below standards. It is my concern and our concern that this should not be the case. I meet relatively very often with workers in our contribution organizations and regions, when I thank them for their approach, because it must be said that they are people in most of the university-educated, highly talented, because otherwise they would not be able to operate in some artistic fields at all, and they are also heartmakers. They can't be punished for that. That means we need to remember this. I also appreciate the support from trade unions that are interested in this subject, and I firmly believe that I am not just saying this here as some Těšín apple, I firmly believe that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and, of course, with our contribution organisations, we will be able to find a level not only of survival but also of improving the standards of workers who certainly deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u158	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? It's not like that. The next draw is Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u159	Thank you. Madam Secretary, following the entry of the new Civil Code, the question is whether the civil responsibility of the representatives is governed by the new Civil Code or under which law this is being assessed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u160	I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u161	Madam, I have understood the question perhaps a little more generally. The new Civil Code prescribes, and thanks to your question, I have now been forced to get to know it even more closely in relation to this issue, a certain responsibility for persons who are members of elected bodies, including legal entities, of course, with a rebuttable assumption that careless conduct should be regarded as a situation where a person who, when taking up his duties, found that he was unable to care, did not draw the consequences from this to himself. The Legislative Department considers that the provisions of the Civil Code on Legal Persons are, in the light of the provisions of Section 20 (2) of the Act on Legal Persons. This does not, of course, preclude the nature of their case, the new Civil Code applicable to all persons of private law and persons of public law. Of course, we will be most responsible. The provisions of the new Civil Code apply in cases where specific legislation does not provide for special legal rules. We have several special regulations, but, for example, when it comes to the responsibility of elected persons, in relation to them, at least the interpretation that I have at my disposal right now, we should apply the new Civil Code. The most significant is when it comes to special responsibility, when there may be an obligation to compensate for damage or damage or other loss, event. the disadvantage, because the new Civil Code uses different terms, so in that case the provisions of Section 2910 would apply. In this case, it would then be a breach of the legal obligation, not a contractual obligation. On the contrary, tightening contractual liability applies everywhere, whether it is a representative or, of course, an employee of the municipality where such a representative or employee would be elected to the authority of some corporations, then we would apply the Commercial Corporations Act. Otherwise, on the issue of the liability of municipal politicians in criminal terms, it can be concluded that only persons enjoying privileges and immunities are excluded from the criminal law regime, but that is not what your question was about. Of course, Communist politicians are not exempt from criminal law. They are subject to all the provisions of the Criminal Code, including those which impose stricter requirements and link with them more stringent criminal consequences if they act as public persons, or are in the position of official persons, as the criminal code refers to. [[17.40 hours]] So, more importantly, I am not sure whether I have exactly addressed your question with my answer, and if not, I would be happy to comment either on the additional question I have asked, or I will still have the interpretation of the relevant provisions of the new Civil Code processed to satisfy you. I am aware that this question can be answered from different angles and, therefore, I ask for some long - suffering, that I have therefore approached the answer in this way and that I have chosen these provisions. I don't know if that was exactly pointing to the point you had in mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u162	Thank you, Minister. According to the mime, the Member is not interested in an additional question. Now, please, another in the order of Mr Michal Kučera, who will intersect the absent Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u163	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister absent, 574 908 was unemployed in the Czech Republic in April 2014. However, according to the Czech Statistical Office's labour force sample survey, only 339 000 were unemployed in April. The difference is 230 grand. Does this mean that more than 230,000 people are registered at the employment office, but aren't they really looking for work? What are you gonna do about it? And I'm really asking what you, Madam Secretary, are going to do about it, not excuses about your predecessor. So once again, I ask: How and when will you deal with the situation that almost a quarter of a million people are registered at the employment office, they are not really looking for work, but the registration at the employment office allows them to receive unemployment or social benefits from the state? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u164	Thank you. And Mrs Jana Černochová, who will interpel the Minister of Defence, Martin Stropnický, was awarded the twenty-nineth. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u165	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Me and Minister Stropnický traditionally close the interpelatory window. It's always exciting whether it's our turn or not. So this time it worked. Minister, this House should discuss the amendment to the law and other related standards this autumn. In this context, a number of speculations have been raised in recent days that your ministry is about to renew its basic military service, that you want to take and summon young men and women and so on. I know how it is, but I don't think it's very clear to the public, which is why I want you to say exactly what you're planning and what it will mean for our citizens. And in connection with events in Ukraine, I would also like to ask how it is ensured to strengthen our professional army with a mandatory backup if necessary, because it turns out that the warning period may not be a few years, and then it will come de facto from day to day. So how long will it take for our army to be strengthened by a well-trained backup if the state's state of danger is declared under existing laws? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u166	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u167	Thank you, Madam President. [[There's only a handful of people in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the question and for the opportunity to explain things that are extremely easy to twist and create perhaps increased sales of certain periodicals, but that is not really the point. It is relatively serious, or at least a very important thing, so thank you for the opportunity to give a brief explanation. Of course, what we hear about it is speculation. The Ministry of Defence, under my leadership, continues to implement the conceptual strategic solutions adopted by the previous governments. As you may have noticed, we are trying to implement everything that is well founded or started. Such steps include the concept of mobilization of the armed forces of the Czech Republic and the concept of active backup. Individual questions that are good to explain. First of all, of course, it is not true that the Ministry of Defence is going to restore the basic military service. By the way, it's quite spicy, on the other hand, that the public's reactions to this are not entirely negative. And specially, women recommend to some of their mommies that they go to the war. But that's just for fun. The defence obligation is determined, without distinction, to the citizens of the Czech Republic from the age of 18 to the age of 60, on the basis of the law in force. It's also sometimes forgotten. Perhaps, in this context, it would be nice to take advantage of today's International Day of Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, to mention that the provisions of the defence obligation for women were incorporated in the Czech Republic already in 2004 and allow women to make full use of their right to prepare for the defence of the Republic. Of course, it also gives the Ministry the opportunity to better plan the use of human potential for the needs of the armed forces. This does not mean, however, that the Ministry will not treat women without respecting their actual physical possibilities and abilities. However, the current wording of the law already remembers these questions and sets out, for example, an exception in the wording of Section 25 for pregnant women or lonely men caring for children under the age of 15 and so on. And they do not, of course, call for a draft or special service. The truth is, however, that we are now planning to implement the drainage procedure in peace on the basis of the Government's decision. And that's probably one of the most important news of the proposed or prepared novels. But as it was, and in order not to just criticize the media, in one of them, possibly coincidentally stated correctly by random circumstances, it's basically a census. It is simply an act where a government already in a time of peace, and that is essential, based on the development of an international situation or some specific potential, but sharpening security threats can take place on time. Then he selects several years, mostly he goes after the young years, and then they come to the draft, so that there is any record and an accurate idea of what the army can count on. This does not mean that the young man is usually bound and obliged in some way. Of course, the basic prerequisite is its adequate health condition, but even in this case, there are still possibilities of rejection due to religion or conscience. In some ways, you could say that if you add up all these reasons, then those people can stay relatively few for the advance. But I think it's a very democratic and liberal approach. In 2005, the new defence law in connection with the professionalization of the armed forces of the Czech Republic was moved only after the state of the threat of the state, the SOS, or even the state of war. With regard to our NATO membership and a stable security situation -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u168	Minister, I'm sorry, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u169	Oh, I'm sorry. I got carried away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u170	The honourable Member will ask an additional question and you will have two more minutes. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u171	The backup, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u172	I apologise now, Madam President, but I will try to... [[Everyone says backup. Finally, the word "backup" says to the microphone and Vice-President Jerman.]] Yes, yes, backup. Well, thank you. Backup's getting old. I'd start with that. Backup is getting old and isn't being prepared. Those who were 18 years old in 2004 and were therefore the last citizens recruited are now in their 30's, and we consider only those who have done the preparation or military exercises in the last five years. [[17.50 hours]] Thus, the current situation does not allow us to make timely use of the advance of the armed forces and its early creation and thus does not guarantee the successful performance of the tasks of the armed forces in ensuring the defence of the state and the allied commitments. What does the current legislation not yet allow? Using an active backup as the best-prepared backup of the armed forces, whether it be to maintain some of the peace capabilities of the armed forces. What else doesn't allow? Use of active backup during operational deployment at peace time. And that may be for military tasks, but not only for dealing with non-military crisis situations. It also does not allow the use of former professional soldiers for an active advance unless they volunteer to be assigned to this category of backup of the armed forces. The necessity of creating a kind of potential by means of a levy, actually by registration, is, as the honourable Member has already mentioned, very important especially in situations which, as we are learning, may occur. When the warning period is relatively very short. If we start doing SOS in that state, we'll have these people in 72 days and they'll be untrained, putting them in far greater danger. And if we wanted to put them on...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u173	Minister, you won't like me, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u174	I'm sorry. It takes me a long time to explain how we have a relatively small army. Well, I'll make it short next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u175	Thank you and now please to the microphone of Mr Klučka, who will interpel the Minister Němeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u176	Thank you, Madam President. I'm all alone today. I see an impatient wait for my colleague Gabriela Pecková. So I'm gonna allow her to give her an interview, and I'm gonna keep this thing to Mr. Nemecko when she's present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u177	Yes, thank you, and please, to Mrs Pecková's microphone, to read her interview with Minister Chládek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u178	Once again, good afternoon, or evening, ladies and gentlemen. Last week, I was talking about the Lanzarot Convention, which talks about fighting sexual violence against children. So I would like to continue on this sad subject and turn to Minister Chládek, because although, to a certain extent, the curriculum of our schools has managed to include partly sexual education, although I do not think that this is sufficient, and the debate should definitely develop. But sex education in schools is supposed to teach us, virtually. our children, how to live a healthy sex life. Sexual violence against children is a completely different chapter, and therefore certainly should also be devoted to it for quite a special hour, no matter what subject. I would appeal to that, and I would like to ask how the Minister will proceed. And the other thing. One thing is that we will increase awareness of this sexual violence in children, but it is equally important to raise awareness of teachers, virtually. Anyone who participates in the educational training process. While physical violence on children is recognized by every gym teacher, because a bruise or scratch is visible on children, sexual violence, which often takes place in the nearest circle of the family, is signed primarily on the child's soul. And I would urge very much that educators be trained in tools to detect sexual violence, what are its signs, how can this violence, which has taken place at all, and not leave physical evidence as to how children can manifest itself. [[Attention, time's up.]] Thank you for the warning and please the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u179	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member has more or less summed up two of her questions in one, and I will also try to answer both of them, because this is a very difficult issue. Perhaps the honourable Member also remembers the fight when one group of parents, perhaps I do not know exactly what their name is, the rights of parents, was against having sex education at all in the Czech schools. They even signed a petition. Fortunately, this has not been answered, because the Member is right that a large number of sexual violence, or even other cases, is hidden abuse and open abuse, is largely in families. Therefore, sexual education is unrepresentable in Czech education. It is therefore not within the framework of the curriculum, because we have moved from the curriculum to the framework education programmes, but it is part of several programmes, several educational disciplines. I'll name them briefly. It is part of the field of man and his world, education for citizenship, in science, education for education in ethical education. Even in the second degree in the field of health education, there is a theme of health risks and their prevention, and part of it is not only to teach about the dangers of sexual violence, but also about the prevention. And especially how to behave, how to prevent it, how to react correctly, so that it doesn't happen more or less. She is, of course, a very difficult issue. The school should help. And because, of course, the teacher is in a complicated situation in this interpretation, we have two alternatives for schools. One alternative is that the teacher himself can interpret this issue, or the school can invite an adequate expert. With the fact that as part of further education of pedagogical staff, we offer courses through the National Institute of Further Education ourselves, because it is very crucial and important to interpret this issue adequately by the child's age. Whatever age it is, it has to be on the so-called. The city's booby traps are ready. We are even preparing, and this is probably the answer to what we are doing, we are preparing for 2015 to refine the framework education programmes through so-called. standards not only in this subject, in these areas, but also in others, so that in Czech education, where we have 4 500 primary schools, the issue is taught to be about the same. Because it happens to us that in some schools it is taught well, well, and somewhere it is limping, somewhere it is even afraid to speak openly to children about the issue. So our efforts are even more methodically to help schools so that teachers can easily interpret this issue. And it's within the programs I was talking about at the beginning of my speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u181	I'd like to ask the lady an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u182	I would like to follow up on this - the minister said different age groups. So I would still ask about preschool education, because of course preschoolers are the most sensitive and the biggest problem is that they recognize in the family what is still a loving hug and what can already be beyond the edges and basically is harassment or sexual violence. So how and whether you will even address this problem in the field of pre-school education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u183	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u184	Thank you, Madam President. So, in the end, the Member made all three interpelations within one. There's a program called Health and Safety, but there's a big problem with preschool kids. There we have to be very careful that this is the appropriate age of the child. So that we don't overdo it so that, in the end, sexual abuse will also be when a parent strokes a child's head. So, of course, there are tools for a teacher to interpret the child's age appropriately. Because it's all the more complicated with those little kids. [[18.00 hours]] It is therefore in the field of education. Thematic circuit is focused on awareness of health and safety. So it's a wider circle. It's not just the area that interests the lady. And the other area concerns how to be cautious when meeting strangers and strangers. There it is even more focused on the area of meeting unknown people, because of course young children are defenseless, they can't respond sufficiently like an adult individual. Then, of course, we try to specify the expected outputs. If I have any more time, I'll try to load them here. It's to realize at all the danger that the child is at risk. So that the child knows at this age that unfortunately the world is also such that sometimes there are some pitfalls waiting for him. How to behave appropriately in your familiar environment, on the contrary, how to behave in an unknown environment. How to avoid the danger at all. How to react when something like this is about to happen. How do you even defend yourself against it? So it's all part of the Health and Safety Programme and it's being taught in preschool education in preschool facilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-06-19-ps2013-010-07-012-109.u185	Thank you, Minister. You're right on time. I am of the opinion that we have closed the oral questioning for today's meeting. I am interrupting the House meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will proceed according to the approved point by the fixed points. Have a good evening.
