ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u1	180. Government bill amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, and Legal Measures of the Senate No. 341/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, and Act No. 55/2012 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended / House printing 300/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Minister Brabec will make the proposal. Take your word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u2	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak for colleague Jourová here as part of her first reading with this important law. The Government's draft law, the wording of which was approved by the Government at its meeting on 3 September this year, is presented in connection with the need for amendments to Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on public procurement, non-conceptional character. The primary purpose of the proposed amendment is the partial amendment to the national public procurement regulation and the proposed regulation is mainly to remedy the shortcomings of the effective wording of the Public Procurement Act. [[Sudden noise in the left side of the hall.]] The amendment proposes extending a demonstrative list of criteria on the possibility of evaluating the organisation, qualification and experience of the staff involved in the performance of the contract, allowing the contracting entity to find an appropriate and well-founded offer for the services. At the same time, the possibility of assessing the impact on employment of people with difficult access to the labour market, which arose from negotiations in the framework of a comment procedure with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is also proposed. By adopting the amendment to the Act, the wording of the provisions governing the conditions for the award of additional works and additional services will be drawn up in such a way that this wording is fully in line with the Public Procurement Directive 2014/24/EU. Therefore, the need for additional works or additional services will have to take place as a result of circumstances which the contracting authority, acting with due care, could not have foreseen. The current limit of 20 percent of so-called multi-work remains preserved. The present text has caused complications in assessing specific cases where the law required an almost absolute degree of objective unpredictability. The proposed change addresses the situation in the sense that the contracting authority cannot be required to take more care than usual, in the words of the law: adequate. The change will prevent situations where, under the current wording, inaccuracies in the project were the cause of withdrawal of subsidies. [[The O.R.'s down.]] For example, the contracting authority will be able to use the project documentation prepared by an external authorised entity and will assume its professional implementation for the documentation as a admissible reason for the award of additional works. During the construction work, however, it is found that there is a material error in the project which requires a change in the scope of the work carried out through so-called additional work. By adopting the amendment, the obligation to cancel the procurement procedure will also be lifted in a situation where the contracting authority has received only one tender, thereby improving the procurement process, which is mainly based on its acceleration, and is therefore intended to prevent unnecessary delays. As part of its existence, this obligation has often caused unsolvable problems for contracting entities and thus failed to fulfil their primary purpose, namely to increase the competitiveness of tenders and to increase the incentive of contracting entities to open up the procurement conditions to a larger number of tenderers through a more moderate setting. Furthermore, an adjustment of the section of the Public Procurement Act relating to the exercise of supervision of public procurement will be made. The new legislation should make the proceedings before the Office for the Protection of Competition more effective, i.e. speed up. The purpose of the adjustment is to ensure an effective, rapid and legal review of the actions carried out in the procurement procedure. Based on the result of the commentary procedure, this amendment was also modified in relation to the so-called sensitive activity, when the function of the member of the evaluation committee was removed from this sensitive activity. This will simplify the process of drawing up evaluation commissions, as, in the current state, this process has been very administratively demanding for important public procurement. In the last few areas, the proposed amendment regulates, the repeal of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act governing the list of assessors and the abolition of the obligation to present an opposition expert opinion on the justification of major public contracts, in the context of a forthcoming system of state expertise, which should fulfil similar obligations as the list of assessors together with the drafting of opposing opinions. The adoption of the amendments in question will not have negative effects on the transparency of public procurement according to the petitioner. The effectiveness of this proposal is then proposed on 1 January 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Ladislav Okleštěk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to add after the Minister's exhausting word, because Minister Brabec, as you know, is a universal minister and can present everything as appropriate. I would just like to remind you that, in this case, this is not really a new law, but a partial amendment that is very important to us, and that the proposed amendments will eliminate the shortcomings that are in the present law, and we need to eliminate them. I'm interrogating myself to let the law go into the next reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u5	Thank you. I am opening up a debate to which, at this point, I am registering the only one registered and that is Mr Laudát. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. If I criticize the presentation, please don't criticize the Minister. I was given a choice to choose between two, and after yesterday's trauma from Mr. Prachař's performance in front of the public on transport, of course, I reached for a professional. The law itself, or the novel. I don't know what words I'm supposed to use anymore - Jesus Kriste! I like Mrs Jourová very much, I was one of the three Members who defended her when she was ambushed at the airport by the security authorities, and I believed she was fair. But what came out of her workshop, from her ministry after many months, is rather appalling. Of course, I will not make a motion for rejection at first reading, which I would probably do under any other circumstances, but the situation really requires some solution. And every solution is still a little better than no solution. On the floor of the Economic Committee, a meeting was held, on the one hand, by representatives of ministries - in addition to the Minister of the Interior, who was missing there, because it was some, I would say, almost the top of the criminalisation of investors, public investors I note - it was some March, whether I was right or early April, the end of March - so there were a number of ministers or their representatives and promised radical rapid change, at least in the first stage by the end of June, the Minister's change parametric. None of this happened. We have this presentation here today. What I want to know is that it's there. So from the discussion that was going on there, perhaps there is only a solution to the question of the Office for the Protection of Competition. That's one of those things. But I don't understand why the Ministry needed three quarters of a year, and it still didn't solve it to change parametric things. What each contracting authority knows quite clearly what it is dealing with is the question of more work and less work. Mr. Chairman of the UOHS Rafaj said it wasn't from his workshop. I confess, I didn't know there was a final statement by a court, I think in Hradec Králové, that from the limit amount that you must not exceed the investment, i.e. 20 percent, so more jobs are added up, but you can't deduct the costs for the failed part of the work. So even if you keep the construction limit, you can still be criminalized, or at least break the Public Procurement Act, and I don't know how many other different regulations... [[Noise in the hall. Mr. Laudat is waiting for a while, but nothing's happening.]] ... More regulations just 'cause it's gonna go away. And if you stick to the absolute price, which should be the essential criterion for the public budget -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u7	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I've been waiting for my colleagues to lower the volume of their talks. It didn't happen. So I'm asking you now to really lower the noise level. And if you have something important to resolve, then go to the lobby so that we can hear what Mr Laudát is speaking. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u8	Thank you. So completely unnecessary, I don't know, it doesn't. Other things. The generally known failure - that there is no good project documentation, network managers do not know where they have networks and what networks they have. A completely incomprehensible issue for the European Union and for the rest of the cultivated Europe, unfortunately our standard. So, of course, there is always a project drawn, whether for the phase of territorial management, then there are a number of deviations in the building permit, and the accident stone occurs when the construction reaches the level of project documentation, implementation documentation. And, of course, any deviations from some of the crazy auditors that we've been talking about this morning are getting into that part of the work. It's not a project specification, it doesn't know the law. And the legislator tried to solve this amount of problems here in the proposal in the provision of § 23 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. a). I know it was from negotiations and from some troubles, when the drawing of OP Transport was stopped, so came up with a term - objectively unforeseen circumstances. And that was what investors were trying to do in utter despair - and not only state, but also municipal, regional - to fill up any changes or a number of common ones on the construction of bagatel automatic changes that always occur. And, of course, somebody took it, somebody else didn't, somebody filed a criminal complaint. Now there is a term - circumstances that the contracting authority, acting with due care, could not foresee. Our legal system doesn't know this, that is. It doesn't move at all, or just very vaguely. Again, it is a question of assessing the permanent notifiers of law enforcement authorities. It is a huge pasture for law firms, which the investor will have to continue to hire to interpret what this means. In other contexts and in other laws, the care of a proper economic operator is mentioned. And the term here is not discussed in this way so that there can be really continuous modifications to the construction, a change in the construction process that carries something with it... [[The noise in the room persists.]] Can I have Mr...
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u9	I can do it again. But really, colleagues, I ask you not to discuss in the hall, to listen to what is being spoken, and to bring the discussion into the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u10	Thank you. I don't know how much else the Ministry will need - not just this, she's in on the traffic and more, the Ministry of Industry and Trade - to put a paragraph in there. So why are we only supposed to have 20 percent when the rest of Europe is between 30 and 50 percent? And even the new European directive, referred to by the Minister-in-chief, significantly liberalizes the approach. I won't hold you up, but I have to say one thing. Only that the urgent need to do something about this law does not lead me to actually make a motion to reject it at first reading. I assume that the guarantee committee is an economic committee where this subject is discussed at almost every meeting, because it affects the entire public sector in a negative way. However, I regret to say - if someone had done something instead of all-page media talk about how they would revolutionize the Public Procurement Act... We have concrete evidence here that unfortunately, he didn't. And it will turn against this government, too, because Minister Prachař or his successor, I do not know how it will turn out, nor will he enforce anything. The next thing you know, it's going to be a huge penny of stalling tactics, of criminalizing investors, because this law doesn't change that. I don't know what's so complicated about writing a simple novel. Finally, I note that in the Economic Committee, the changes that were promised to us there were demanded across the political spectrum, from left to right. No one asked the other way, i.e. Total babysitting, complex law. We offered to speed things up and not go into a commentary procedure - which has now been shown by the officials of various ministries to make such a thing again, except for two or three exceptions in the law - that we can put it as a parliamentary proposal that will support it, and it would be appropriate for one of the coalitions to do so to have wider support. To create this amendment in cooperation with the relevant minister or minister, so that it does not run into the government. None of this happened. [[13.30 hours]] So today we come to the fact that we're continuing to practice, that we're doing something here, that we're not helping industry, we're not helping transport, except for two or three exceptions, but they're not essential. Today, investors, contracting entities do not worry about qualifications, part of them intentionally troubles to appeal to the ÚOHS, but the other things that happen after the contracts are signed for the supply of the building and is realized, so practically one and not the very lucky formula does not solve this example at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, the rapporteur, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, is with priority. Just for the record, I say that so far the proposal has been put to discussion only by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I propose that it also be discussed in the Economic Committee. I would also like to ask you to shorten the deadline by 20 days to 40 days. And I think that a lot of the ideas that my previous speaker here said would be the space to work on individual committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u13	Thank you. As the next Mr. Hovorka. After that I have signed up for the debate of Mr Volný. [[Busy]] You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I would just like to ask that the subject matter of the House, but also in the committees, be not only that which is contained in the draft law, but that we take a very serious look at what the competitors draw attention to and what the contracting authorities draw attention to. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And this is the complexity of this law, the longness of tenders, and it is also a very unequal position in the performance of the contract in relation to the contracting authority - its own supplier and subcontractors. This means applying the same conditions to subcontractors of these contracts. It's a kind of implementation of what's in German law today. It is the implementation of the credibility of the competitor. It is a requirement of credibility and also a requirement that not only the price but also the cost-effectiveness of the contract is not the only criterion, and it is a requirement by contracting entities to organise two-stage procedures, to compete first with quality, and then to compete with the price. Only then can the law bring what is expected of him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u15	Thank you. I note one factual remark made by Mr Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u16	I just want to say that it's a myth that the only criterion is price. The fact that contracting entities are afraid to write contracts is reality. But it's a myth. And if we spread some kind of awareness that contracting authorities don't have to do it like that, they're only gonna do it right. I agree that we should talk about quality, but I would point out one step earlier. It's very important whether or not there is a contract at all. That's very important, too. Very often, contracts are made for what authorities might do to themselves. And then it's the easiest. Then we don't even value quality and price, but it just happens at home and we don't have to buy it in a complicated way -- we talked about it this morning -- when someone orders to have an outside company process an office's organizational scheme for them, I think that's totally unacceptable. It must be those who run the office. And I would like to give one initiative to the Members who will look into it. This will most likely not be the case in the Committee on Budgets. I think it is important that we go back to making references a benchmark - not just a sheet where you write everything that was done. Because when you do something yourself, first thing you ask when you invest your money, of course, on price, quality, but also on experience. And when you order a family house, you want to know what the company has built, you want to ask the person who lives there, if she built it on time, if there are no hidden flaws after three, five, eight, ten years, how the company stands up for warranty repairs and so on. So I would ask my colleagues on the Economic Committee and the Public Administration Committee to consider this possibility as well. Of course, this must not be a criterion prevailing. I think there's a limit to that. Weight could be a maximum of 30, 40 percent. But it is very important and this is how it works, in the private sector it is quite common that in addition to price and quality, you also assess the company's references. And if we can put that in some kind of discussion, I think we can improve choice options for the contracting authority. Sometimes it's very complicated. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Last sentence. You have to choose a company with which you do not have good experience, because the terms of the contract do not give you any other option. And that's wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u17	Thank you. Now, Mr Pilný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u18	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be more pilný than volný, so I will stick to the facts, and I will also not call on you as my predecessors, Kristus or any other church dignitaries. What is essential in the so-called somewhat messed-up or inadequate novel? Firstly, it is really a change in the approach of the UOHS, because there is a bail that is there, determined by the size of the contract and can reach up to 10 miles. There is a further forfeiture of bail in case the proposal is withdrawn or not discussed, and is set very high, so it can make it very difficult, and I hope it will make it difficult, the obstruction that is being conducted at the UOHS. Furthermore, it is possible to award a contract even if there is one contracting authority under certain conditions. The public procurement criteria have been mentioned here. There is a list of what can be considered in the award of a public contract, and it really is not just a price. Of course, we will probably go further, because the European directive that was adopted in Brussels even allows a public contract to solve a problem, not just for its concrete implementation. There's also a formulation about unpredictable circumstances. There's an attempt to make it done with the care of a proper caretaker. We can, of course, correct the wording, but the point is that, on the basis of so-called undetectable or unforeseen circumstances, contracting authorities should not be criminalized. That's what it says. Then there are changes that were necessary to make because, according to the Senate's proposal, there was to be a list of assessors, which is a very problematic issue. There are also matters that concern opposing proceedings that would make the whole process of procurement and the process of public procurement extremely difficult. Of course, we still have a question of more work, of exceeding some limit, which is here. Of course, we can discuss that. We can also discuss whether or not engineering networks are being mapped. But that's not really a question of this law. This is a question of getting these things in order in individual offices, magistrates, municipalities and so on. This does not apply to the law, because if I don't know what lies in the country, I guess that's not really the problem of this law. In summary, I believe that this amendment is a very important step and solves a number of immediate problems which, if we manage to discuss the amendment soon enough and it will apply, will significantly change the procedure in the field of public procurement. Of course, we will wait further for a novel that should be much larger. And the question is whether it could have been prepared sooner or later, but I would strongly recommend adopting this amendment as soon as possible, because it is not cosmetic treatment, is a major breakthrough in addressing major problems in public procurement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-01-ps2013-017-09-008-180.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, I am not registering any application for a debate or a factual point, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and the rapporteur whether they want to take the final floor. Mr. Secretary? No. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The rapporteur has yet to propose an economic committee. I wonder if anyone has a proposal to supplement other committees? I don't. In that case, I will put it to a vote. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of having the proposal put forward be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Who's against it? It's a serial number 315 vote. There are 127 Members present, 119 Members for this proposal. The motion was accepted. [[13.40 hours]] Furthermore, we will be voting on the fact that we are giving the proposal to the Economic Committee for discussion. Initiating vote. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's the number 316 vote. There are 128 Members present, 120 Members for this proposal, against no one. Furthermore, I have here the rapporteur's proposal to shorten the deadline for 20 days, i.e. 40 days. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of shortening the deadline for 40 days? Who's against it? It's vote 317. Members present are 128, 84 Members voted in favour of this proposal, against 3. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Finally, I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, further to the Committee on Economic Affairs and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced by 20 days, i.e. 40 days. I am done discussing this point and, given that we have exhausted the approved agenda of the 17th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I am ending this meeting. I wish you a nice rest of today and a nice autumn. Have a good day and goodbye.
