ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u1	3. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Polčák, Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended Constitutional Laws 43/ - First Reading You have received the Government's position on House Press 43 as House Press 43/1. First of all, I ask that the proposal put forward by the representatives of the appellants, Mr Stanislav Polčák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. In this part of my opinion, I would have taken the liberty of perhaps being a little more extensive, even though I had not originally planned to. I would first like to emphasise why we are dealing with this amendment to the Constitution. This is in particular because, in the last parliamentary term, this amendment of the Constitution has not been approved, extending the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, on the floor of the Senate. To the surprise of the then political representation the law, or the amendment to the Constitution, together with the implementing law, passed the Chamber of Deputies so that it was adopted across the political spectrum and extended the powers of the Supreme Audit Office for a number of months, perhaps even more than a year, by representatives of political parties. This constitutional compromise, which has been reached here in the House of Deputies, as I have pointed out again, i.e. across the political spectrum, has not been confirmed in the Senate and the Senate has opposed this amendment to the Constitution and has rejected the amendment of the Constitution. The Senate is in matters relating to the amendment of the Constitution, respectively. amendments to the constitutional order, unvoteable and therefore no press approval was received at the time under 351 and 352, since the amendment to the Constitution was therefore rejected. [[16.00 hours]] It followed the submission of the same amendment again, with the only exception, that this amendment included - submitted later, that was in May last year, my person and then Deputy Prime Minister Karolína Peake - which included an exception for municipalities and cities and was therefore set at the level of the Office of the Government. This amendment to the Constitution has been welcomed by representatives of the professional public and has not been discussed for known reasons. The reason was that the Chamber of Deputies was dissolved. This basic introduction I took the liberty of making this wider, precisely so that you all understand the reasons that led to the repeated submission of this amendment. As rapporteur for the press that was being discussed at the time, I considered all the questions raised in both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to be resolved. I did not expect any reservations to be raised against such a standard, which was so welcomed in May and consulted with representatives of the Supreme Audit Office. Therefore, I do not consider the proposal as my own, rather as an obligation made in public space and to be respected. We are now in a situation where a certain wave of resistance has risen against the same draft amendment to the Constitution due to a single provision that no one has changed a comma or a letter since May 2013. If some media are complaining about this bill, I want to repeat that we have only responded as petitioners to the complaints raised on the Senate floor. That's one. Secondly, I was, of course, the rapporteur of the press in the past period, while at the same time promoting the widest possible extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. And if, in just one part, the Senate's opinion had to be heard because it was unvoted, I consider it a constitutional compromise that is simply necessary and necessary in this part. It should be said that in all other parts, and these are tens of thousands of entities, there is a dramatic extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office with regard to the entities subject to its control. In relation to municipalities and cities, I would like to point out that this issue does not entirely affect the current press 43, but it is a print 44, it is an implementing law for the amendment of the Constitution. In relation to this part of the amendment tabled, I want to say that I am not any dogmatic, that I would not respond to the criticisms and at the same time that we should be deaf to what is also presented by the Supreme Audit Office now. It's a shame it didn't sound like that in the past period. We should, of course, find, above all, political consensus across the political spectrum, that is undoubtedly, it is a matter for the Constitution and amendments to the Constitution, and for this a follow-up implementing law. A compromise must be reached, as I repeat, at the level of the Senate and at the level of contact with this upper chamber before the Constitution is approved, so that we do not get into the same twisted round as last time. As regards the definition of this amendment to the Constitution, it must be said that Article 97 of the Constitution, which extends the powers of control with regard to the scope of the audited bodies, is being amended in a rather dramatic way. A legislative shortcut is being introduced - and here I can illustrate how the legislative positions are changing with regard to the subjects to be mentioned in the Constitution. So either we go through the principle of some kind of enumerative enumeration, i.e. a list of addressed entities at least from the point of view of their types, which can be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office, or we go through the system of determining a certain term that the law knows, and according to that term, all entities that fall under it in terms of their material competence will be checked by the Supreme Audit Office. While the last time it was argued that the adjustment should be as precise as possible at constitutional level, and legislative abbreviations were somewhat inappropriate, it is now, in some ways, the opposite, as the Government's position also shows. On the other hand, I have to welcome the Government's position to a large extent because it is first of all agreeable, and secondly, it looks at it with some other optics, other eyes that have not yet been discussed in this way. I would like to say that the proposal differs from the May version in just one thing, namely that the proposal that I have put forward allows ČEZ, a company previously excluded from this control by means of a clause, that in a company whose shares or securities have been admitted to trading on publicly negotiable markets, they are excluded from this control by the Supreme Audit Office. This provision has also been approved in the past period across the political spectrum. It was such an exception that was negotiated, and I sort of removed this provision from this draft with the fact that we can discuss it. I also see arguments against, but to a large extent, the competences, powers of the Supreme Audit Office are being extended again. I must return to this again, and thus by the conclusion of my speech, on the issue of local authorities. Of course, one thing is the entitlement funds obtained by municipalities through the budgetary determination of taxes, these are self-governing funds, and we also recognise that there should be control of the Supreme Audit Office at least in terms of compliance with the law. Secondly, the money, the cash flows, which the Supreme Audit Office has the authority to control today, and these are the non-interested, let's say, subsidies granted from public budgets. Here it must be said that the amendment should be adapted in this section to maintain - that is only one provision or one sentence in the implementing law, but it does not affect the Constitution - so it should be adapted to enable the control of these means, the non-interested ones. I guess that's unmistakable. On the other hand, to say that because of this one point in this provision of the implementing law, the entire law is poorly prepared, I consider it entirely purposeful and rather an effort to sink the entire law by creating a chimera that the law is absolutely wrong. If you look at which entities are to be controlled, it is, among other things, the Prague Transport Company, various other shares and companies with municipal, urban, regional or state participation, if they achieve at least that fixed percentage. Even that percentage has been discussed for many months because many countries are going to reduce the percentage, and it is not necessary for the community or the state to hold the majority of the shares. But a little participation is required. All of this was discussed in such a way as to incorporate comments from all sides. To conclude, I believe that the best legislative procedure should be that the amendment of the Constitution should be discussed with representatives of the Upper Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, so that we do not again do something that the Senate would not subsequently approve, and thus the entire work would fall to nothing, as we were surprised to see last time, and at the same time to clarify what the constitutional protection of municipalities and towns or local authorities means - it applies, of course, to the regions - at the constitutional level guaranteed by the title of the eighth Constitution, and where therefore the autonomy is guaranteed, these autonomy of municipalities and cities and other local authorities. If this discussion does not take place in order to achieve constitutional agreement, all efforts to make other entities available - look at the extent of the expansion of the entities in fact - are quite significant - so that even these entities here can expect to be subject to the control of the Supreme Audit Office. [[16.10 hours]] To duplicates - perhaps the very last point, because I forgot about it in my speech, the duplication of checks that are an argument for the absence at the level of municipalities of the Supreme Audit Office - I would like to say that the nature of the Supreme Audit Office's control is completely different from that which is actually taking place today by both the financial authorities and the regional authorities. The Supreme Audit Office cannot pronounce any penalty. It may merely pronounce a finding stating either a certain error or a result of its activities. This is not a classic financial control, it is only a public administration procedure that is established and based on a legal procedure. In fact, the only penalty that the Supreme Audit Office can impose is a fine for non-cooperation. Another penalty is, in fact, to a certain extent, the publication of the finding to the public. At the same time, I think it is clear from the control plan that there will be no doubt that the bodies that will be controlled at municipal level will be in the order of tens per year. It is not possible to think that the capacity of the Supreme Audit Office can serve to examine 6 300 municipalities, which is now about the number of municipalities and cities in the Czech Republic. It will therefore certainly be a random check according to the control plan, but at the same time a check which will have to respect the constitutional definition of the law of municipalities, cities and regions, which is already enshrined in the valid Constitution. I look forward to an ongoing discussion. Believe me, if I hadn't worked on that law quite fundamentally in the past period, I wouldn't have. It's not a Polčákův novel, it's just a novel that's been requested, it should have been a long time ago. It didn't happen that way. If this succeeds on the basis of this proposal, I will be glad, but I will not take credit for it as any major credit. If that does not happen, that means the amendment will not be adopted, it will be up to the current government to prepare a new proposal. I am not going to try any more of this, because to some extent I have from the ongoing process, when the amendment was celebrated in May, and today many are tearing it down because of a single provision that hasn't changed a lot, so it kind of demotivated me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u3	I thank Mr Polčák. I will now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Petr Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only make a brief summary. We are discussing House Press 43 and 43/1, which is the government's position. This is an amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, Act 1/1993 Coll. The subject of the regulation is to extend the scope of the constitutional competences of the Supreme Audit Office. According to the proposal, the Supreme Audit Office would newly have the competence to control the management of the property of local authorities and the income and expenditure of their budgets, in accordance with the laws on the management of the property of public institutions, which are thus laid down by the law, within the legal scope of the management of the property of legal persons in which the Czech Republic or the local self-governing entity has ownership of the assets of which the law so provides. This press is accompanied by print 44, which reflects the proposed extension of constitutional competences into the Act on the Supreme Audit Office and which we will discuss in the following paragraph. The press under discussion is identical with the House's 969 press from the last parliamentary term, but the House has no longer discussed. The history of this press goes on, however, as a similar proposal was also discussed in the previous parliamentary term as a House press 351. This press, as already stated, did not receive support in the Senate. In its opinion, the Government agreed with the draft law under discussion, but recommended that several comments be taken into account in the next legislative process. Firstly, the specification of the proposal in the context of its impact on the management of public universities. Secondly, the Government also proposes to change the concept of a public institution as a concept which appeared in the original proposals, namely a legal person of a public nature. Thirdly, according to the Government, it is also not appropriate to limit control powers in relation to local authorities to a review of legality. My position as rapporteur is that I believe that this House press should be released for second reading, so that an expert debate can be held on its wording and there is also room for negotiations with the Senate on the form of a proposal that will be acceptable to both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. At the same time, I recommend ordering outside the Constitutional Committee also the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Committee on Control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Petr Kořenka. I am now opening up a general debate in which the President of the Supreme Audit Office first appeared as a guest. Mr. President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak to the present press 43 and 44, which is the proposal for amendments to the Constitution and the draft amendment to the Act 166/1993 Coll. I consider it necessary to begin by saying that the SAO does not initiate the idea of extending its scope, competence or position. We answer the numerous questions that we receive, that we recommend respecting the international recommendations given above all by the Lima Declaration. This reads: "All financial operations with public budgets are to be subject to the control of the relevant Court of Auditors, regardless of whether and how this is reflected in the State budget." After all, this idea has become part of the electoral programmes of some parties. Let them quote at random: "We will extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office so that it can control all expenditure on public budgets. " Or: "We will support the amendment of the Constitution and the Laws on the SAO, which will extend the supervisory powers of the Supreme Audit Office in relation to self-government, state ownership, public bodies, such as insurance companies, voluntary associations of municipalities, contribution organisations of local authorities, Czech Television, Czech Radio, public universities, Czech National Bank and others." After all, these pre-election announcements have also been reflected in the coalition contract, which explicitly states "the extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office so that it can control all public budget expenditure while eliminating duplication of control systems." The proposal we are debating does not meet the commitment you have given to your constituents. Although it largely overlaps with the proposal under discussion by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic during its previous term of office. We considered that to be an extreme compromise solution. However, when I say to a large extent, I come across one very important detail. The proposed proposal expressly prohibits the control of the economy and the effectiveness of the management of the property of municipalities, cities and regions, thus prohibiting something that the SAO can now control for state and European funds. Therefore, I consider the proposed limitation of the SAO's scope only to check compliance with the law not only to be insufficient, but to contradict the Lima Declaration as well as the promises I quoted at the beginning of my speech. This is not an extension, it is a limitation of the SAO's current powers. Allow me to explain this claim in more detail. As I said, according to the proposed wording of Section 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) and § 4 para. The SAO is to carry out an audit of the management of the property of the local authorities and the revenue and expenditure of their budgets only in terms of compliance with the laws. This approach is justified in particular by reference to Article 101 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 The Constitution of the Czech Republic, according to which the State may intervene in the activities of local authorities, only if it requires the protection of the law and only in the manner laid down by law. [[16.20 hours]] In addition to the provisions of the European Charter of Local Government published under No. 181/1999 Coll., according to which any administrative supervision of the activities of local communities normally seeks only to ensure compliance with the law and constitutional principles. To this end, the audit or review of legality involves compliance with all legislation and not only with the law, according to the established practice of the Supreme Audit Institutions. As an example of possible interpretation problems that would arise in the control of local authorities solely in terms of compliance with the laws, account control may be given. Accounting control, which is one of the traditional checks carried out by the Supreme Audit Institutions, works by making the applicable Accounting Act explicitly refer to implementing legislation, i.e. the Ministry of Finance Decrees, and to legislative acts of an illegal nature such as international and Czech accounting standards. Accounting control is not practically feasible only under the Accounting Act. I would also like to stress that the SAO's control is not in any way administrative supervision and thus does not constitute an intervention in the activities of the relevant local authority. The idea that the SAO will evaluate the political decisions of representatives of local authorities is unfounded and I can place my hand in the fire for the fact that something like this has never happened and will never happen. The proposal you have on your desk also carries other significant risks. I am talking about replacing the term 'legal person of a public nature', which was part of the already mentioned proposal from the previous term of office, with the term 'public institution'. According to the general legislative principles, legislation must be terminology uniform. Given the unclear definition of the audited entities under points (c), (d) and (e) of the proposal submitted, I would point out that there will be an interpretation overlap between individual letters in the application practice. The territorial self-governing entity referred to in point (c) shall be a public institution within the meaning of point (d) and a legal person with the ownership of a State or self-government within the meaning of point (e) may also be a public institution within the meaning of point (d). It is therefore clear at this stage of the legislative process that the application did not meet the requirement of an anti-cipated interpretation of the legal standard. As regards the use of the term "public institution' in current applicable legislation, e.g. in the State Statistical Service Act, the concept of public institutions was used. It is understood by the organisational units of the state, local authorities, state and other non-budgetary funds, public universities, health insurance companies and other organizations classified by the Czech Statistical Office in this sector. The very concept of a public institution is further found in the law on free access to information. This law does not define the term. However, the case-law is interpreted in a much broader sense than the content of the concept of public institutions under the State Statistical Service Act. The concept of a public institution is also used in the drafts of the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility and the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility, which have also been submitted to the Government for an opinion. Definition of the concept of a public institution according to these Houses of Press, according to the Chambers of Press No. 43 and 44, and according to its current application in the legal order is therefore not identical. I don't have to stress that it is undesirable for this term to be defined differently for the purposes of various laws, including constitutional laws, and I warn against possible deadlines, including judicial ones. Other laws governing the control of the management of local authorities refer as criteria of control to: compliance with the obligations laid down by specific legislation, in particular the rules on the financial management of territorial units, the management of their assets, accounting and remuneration - I quote by Act 420/2004 Coll., on the review of the management of local authorities and voluntary associations of municipalities. Or: compliance with the legislation and measures taken by public authorities within the limits of these regulations in the management of public funds to ensure the tasks assigned to them - that was Law No. 320/2001 Coll., on financial control in public administration and on the amendment of certain laws. A possible contradiction with the Constitution, respectively. with the European Charter of Local Government, there was no indication of these legislative amendments during the approval process. On the contrary, their full compliance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and with the international treaties to which the Czech Republic is bound was stated in the explanatory notes. According to the provisions of § 4 para. The second sentence of the second draft of the SAO does not verify whether the property of a local authority unit or voluntary union of municipalities is used effectively and economically under special legislation. In the present case, this is a legal obligation which, for the USC, results not only from the laws governing their position - that is § 38 para. 1 of Act 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities, as well as Act on Regionalities, § 17 para. 1, as well as the Act on hl. m. Prague, but also under Act No. 320/2001 Coll., on Financial Control. Ladies and gentlemen, the obligation to behave economically, efficiently or efficiently requires the municipalities not only a law on municipalities, as the petitioners seem to think. The aim of the petitioners is allegedly to prevent the SAO from interfering with the self-government of territorial units within the meaning of the provisions of Title 7 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. You realize that the obligation to use property efficiently, economically and efficiently is imposed on municipalities and regions not only by the law on municipalities, event. regions? What about the Financial Control Act? What about the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets or the Act on the review of the management of local authorities and voluntary associations of municipalities? And after all, what about the Public Procurement Act? Do I correctly understand your proposal that we do not control the effectiveness and efficiency of the law on municipalities and regions? Or do you mean that we do not control efficiency and efficiency according to all the above-mentioned laws? The proposal you are discussing means that the SAO municipalities will not be subject to control. If you want municipalities and regions to be outside the control of an external auditor, then tell the public. This is a better solution than saying that a new law will get a third of the budget under independent control. We will worry about that third of the budget, we will worry about endless litigation, when every move of the SAO will be the subject of an action. I suggest you return the proposal to the petitioners for completion and ask the government to prepare a government amendment to the Constitution, which will go through a standard legislative process. Only such a procedure will enable the amendment of the Constitution and the amendment of the Act on the SAO to be interlinked. This is the only way to prevent the risks of interpretation disputes that will end in court proceedings and not in a quality controlled manner. For those of you who feel bound by your signature so-called. The reconstruction of the state, let me remind you that on the basis of a promise you made a few weeks ago, you are primarily bound by your consciousness and conscience. Do not vote for something that, as a result, is based on a number of problems, and rather get the work done to prepare a really good draft that will fulfill your promises. It's all in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u7	I thank the President of the Supreme Audit Office. And now with priority rights, I will ask the President of the Citizen's Democratic Party, Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to some of the problems associated with this proposal. As has already been said here, MEPs YES, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL have made practically the same proposal, which has already been submitted by the government in the past period and which, as we have heard, has not been adopted by the Senate, I would even say that it has been strongly criticised by the Senate, not for political reasons, but, above all, by those senators who have experience with municipal and regional policy. Finally, this proposal was not adopted by the Chamber of Deputies either. Let us remember again and underline some problems that will undoubtedly arise. The proposal increases the burden on municipalities by checks. According to the proposal, it is to be re-checked by the Supreme Audit Office of municipal management, which is already under thorough control. The municipalities are controlled by a large number of authorities, they prepare audits, the audit is carried out by the financial authorities, the subsidies are controlled by the relevant ministries, European subsidies are controlled by the managing authorities, the management of municipalities is controlled by the regional authorities. The control by the Supreme Audit Office is another of a number of these checks, which are very burdensome to the municipality. From the point of view of the factual outcome, it is only a strengthening of duplication in controls, it will have no great benefit. He can't have it, and that's the second point, the supposed preventive effect. And it can't have a preventive effect from a quantitative point of view. The proposal does not include an increase in the Supreme Audit Office's control actions or an increase in its budget, which is, of course, a good thing. At the same time, however, the proposal envisages an extension of 6 250 municipalities, 14 regions, an unspecified number of companies with the ownership of municipalities, etc. If we consider that the Supreme Audit Office will carry out about 40 control actions a year and check around 350 subjects, so if the Supreme Audit Office, by half of its capacity, focuses on the management of municipalities, the control will fall to one municipality about once every 300 years. Such a frequency of control simply cannot, in any case, act as a prevention of any possible mismanagement. Another thing that's very important. Nobody pays for the costs of synergies with the municipality's inspectors. And ladies and gentlemen, if you have any experience in managing an institution, you know that control, every control carries additional costs. It is necessary to set aside the scope for checks, the staff must cooperate, so they cannot devote a few days to their agenda, and this burden is not refunded by the state to municipalities, nor does the parliamentary proposal address any reimbursement. In conclusion, the most important thing. I am one of those Members who have not been mayor in the past, but I am also one of those Members who ran the institutions. I've driven several of them, and I can tell you that the big problem today is the duplication of controls and the number of controls that are almost out of control. The same matter is now being duplicated, uncoordinatedly controlled by different authorities, often with different results. Prior to any extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, this number of checks by the State as a whole must be addressed, in order to avoid any further duplication in the case of municipalities as a result. We must first carry out a thorough analysis of the current system of controls, its duplicate sites, and propose steps that will optimise this system. This analysis is missing today. We do not have proposals for optimisation, which is why the proposal to extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office to self-government is water-based and lacks reasonable justification. We're just going to burden the communities. The first step we should take is to coordinate checks so that municipalities can cope with it so that controls have an effect at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u9	I thank Mr Fial. A representative of the appellants, Mr Polčák, came forward with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have to respond in this part of the debate, because given the number of entries, I think it's important that it doesn't fit in a bunch of applications. It must be said that the ODS voted here in this House in the past period for a stricter version than what you are criticising here today, President Fialo through the Vice-President. Moreover, it is based on simple mathematical considerations, if President Kala opposes that municipalities be controlled in this way only in terms of compliance with the laws, and at the same time President Fiala is at all opposed to the municipalities being controlled, then the simple reasoning is that the proposal is correct and that it is going in the right direction. Secondly, I must say that the compliance with the laws where municipalities or local authorities are controlled only in terms of compliance with the laws, so this was also the subject of the approved amendment to the Constitution which we approved here, and it is not true that President Kala was not in the original draft. Take a look at § 3 of original draft 351. We had to respond to the Senate's objections, because the Senate is unvoteable, so we have reduced the control only for municipalities to the level that is now contained in the proposal. And let's discuss it, but don't say that the whole proposal is wrong. I have a feeling that there is something else going on here - that this control should be delayed as far as possible and that various transport companies and other companies with state institutions should continue to be Eldorados of what is going on there today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u11	Thank you. And now we have another duly logged in. Sorry. On the point of fact, Mr Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor. It's not like anybody here said that municipalities aren't controlled. On the contrary, it was said that municipalities are controlled in one thing by several institutions at a time. And what's going on here, what's threatening is that the SAO controls the legality, but he'd like to control the so-called - I've written here several times - economy and purposefulness. Then we don't need any deputies. Then we don't need any elections, no democracy. But it fell from the mouth of the president of the SAO, and I consider that very dangerous. Is, friends, efficient and economical, like footballers, falcones, beekeepers, and I don't know who to rent a gym for, like, 10 crowns an hour somewhere? Is it economical? But is it purposeful? I think the law is going somewhere it's not supposed to go. If anyone should be controlled, as has fallen here every 300 years, then the system will not be fair to everyone, but it will be chosen. The choice will be for those who will be judged and then publicly ungrateful, without any success in the trial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u13	The President of the ODS, Mr Fiala, came forward with another factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u14	Mr President, there have been some motives that I must clearly reject. My reservation is based on experience. We are constantly introducing new and new control systems that ultimately lead to nothing, but lead - or have no positive effect. The only effect they have is that institutions are increasingly difficult to pursue their activities, but they are committed to satisfying the demands of individual controllers and control institutions, and that is absolutely wrong. I can tell you my experience, which I must do through the President. When I was rector of Masaryk University, I started over 40 checks a year. You get one check almost every week. And that means separate workers, separate rooms. At the Ministry of Education, the SAO had its own rooms and sat there all the time. We have to wonder if the controls are effective. After all, we will not continue to practice giving control powers to other and other authorities, extending control powers to individual institutions, constantly controlling ourselves, and no longer being able to function effectively for self-control. This is very dangerous for the municipalities, because it will make them extremely burdened, so we must approach it. I repeat, the municipalities are being controlled. This isn't an attempt to avoid checks. This is an effort to let the communities live and do what they're supposed to do, not take further unnecessary control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u15	With another factual remark, Mr Polčák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u16	Mr President, through Vice-President Petr Gazdík, just out of respect for you, my speech will now be neither long nor too pepperful. But can you tell me through the Vice-President how you could have been a member of the government of Petr Nečas, who also proposed and introduced this control, based on municipalities and cities? She wanted to introduce her? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u17	Thank you. A real point, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u18	I am not the spokesperson for our President, but I think that part of the ODS members can comment on this. Yes. We voted in favour of this proposal, but there were no arguments on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies that were raised here today by the President of the Supreme Audit Office. Because at that time, when the proposal was made, the President was not president and the office was without the President. And the fact that the top official of this office is expressing himself in such a negative way about this proposal is perhaps some kind of memento for all of us. The man was elected, has legitimacy, and let us not think, as Members, that to penetrate the surface of what is happening at the SAO, that we simply understand it more. We don't understand. What I've learned from this is that this proposal changes the way we define what we control to who we control. Unfortunately, that's all the proposal is. And it doesn't strengthen any control. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u19	I thank the Member and Mr Polčák, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have decided not to take it completely, and with every other speech of my colleague from the ODS, I am more motivated to speak on this matter. In other words, if President Kala therefore proposes full control of the municipalities, regardless of what the senát has said, and you say, on the other hand, that there should be no control over the municipalities, then your performance, Mrs Černochová, through the Vice-President, seems completely confusing to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u21	With another factual remark, Mr Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u22	I would no longer apply, but I would like to reply by your means, Mr Vice-President, to the honourable Member. I say the same thing I said back in Petr Nečas' government. And I wasn't an MP. My position remains unchanged, and my position on expanding the number of controls by the state is still equally skeptical. My attitude is consistent. That's just an explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u23	I thank Mr Fial. That would put an end to the actual gunfight and bring us to proper applications. Mr Antonín Seďa is the first in proper applications. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Mr President of the SAO, fellow Members, it is very difficult to speak here after the President of the Supreme Audit Office, who, in my opinion, summed up his comments on the bill we are discussing in detail and brilliantly. At the same time, the petitioner is right that the original amendment, which we discussed here in the previous term, failed on the grounds of the rejection of the Senate. I must agree with some of the views of the President of the Supreme Audit Office that the current proposal limits the control of the municipalities and cities. On the other hand, I think it is necessary to better, more clearly define the scope of the audited persons. Because it was really said here that instead of allowing the SAO to control de facto almost everything about public money or European funds, regardless of the recipient or founder, there is a list of those institutions that the SAO can control, which I think is not good. Another problem which does not address the proposal and which I have already pointed out in the past, and it has already been said here, is the need to expand or strengthen the SAO's personnel and financial capabilities in strengthening competences on the one hand. Which, of course, will require costs from the state budget. Without this extension, the objective will simply remain to enhance transparency in the management of public funds and, in fact, control of such public money, or draw public money or money from European funds, only on paper. The last point I have is that the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic already points out today's scope of controls, it has also been said here, and fears duplication in a number of them, in particular the increase in costs. This is possible from my point of view, but, on the other hand, it is necessary to take the extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office's control and to the local authorities as a precaution for the decision-making of the authorities themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u25	Thank you, Mr Seďa. With another proper application is Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would just like to turn a little attention to another problem which is linked to the proposed draft law and which concerns the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I would also like to say in this context that I also see the problem of extending the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, which was opened here in the previous parliamentary term, and the fact that it has not actually been discussed, in the first instance, that the Senate did not identify with it as the second chamber of our Parliament, and in the second case that the parliamentary term was terminated. However, in this context, I think that to strengthen the position of the Supreme Audit Office and to penetrate the greater frequency of controls in public budgets, success will not bring too much to the way that will go in an extensive way, in an intuitive manner in the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, and I am thinking now of the change that is associated with the amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, when it is proposed to extend the content of the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Constitution of the Czech Republic, namely from the fact that the SAO is an independent body that exercises control over the management of state property and the implementation of the state budget, to the wording when it is stated which controls, and now there is a list of five authorisations. As a result, this will potentially reduce the possibility of this own Supreme Audit Office Act, narrowing down very pragmatically the number of audited entities and the potential further control that will concern the management of state property, with state funds, and will not in any way bring about a potential possibility to increase control in relation to public institutions or, in particular, to the budget of local authorities or organisations where they have a share of these public funds. For these reasons, I would like to propose for the KSČM club a return of the bill to the petitioner to complete it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u27	I thank Mr Grospič. I'm picking up a motion to return to work. Another of the proper performers is Mr. Jiří Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u28	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Government in resignation, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset let me dedicate my discussion to both the press, that is 43 and 44, because it concerns the Supreme Audit Office. Let me also say in several sentences what I think about the work of the Supreme Audit Office. In the last two years, when I had the opportunity to meet with the control reports, I have not noticed a single report stating that this competent organisation, which is being controlled, was doing the right thing. It's always been bigger, but it's always been a pretty big contradiction in funding. For this reason, of course, MEPs have already tried to increase the competence of the Supreme Audit Office in the last parliamentary term. I think that the concern that municipalities, possibly legal or natural persons, will have increased their jobs, because there will be a few more checks there, I don't think that's a threat. What, for example, is happening today? That legal entities transfer their business to Prague, even though they do it in Hradec Králové, so of course they are registered in Prague and financial authorities get to check in once every 150 years. One of the previous speakers said that if the Supreme Audit Office had to control everything, it would have taken place once every 300 years for one check. I do not think so, because if the Supreme Audit Office has the right to control all public funds, i.e. public budgets, if it has the right to control all legal persons who manage state funds, then, of course, the controls will be less, because no one will allow it to manage the way it is now. I don't mean municipalities, I would offend them, of course, but many entities that, for example, tweak hundreds of millions of crowns when purchasing services, because it is customary that once money comes from the state or public budget to a private company, no one has the right to control it anymore. In this case, if the SAO has such competence, of course, I think that control will already be much less implemented. But I'm sure I agree that the number of controllers and workers will have to be increased, but it's really worth it, because if we're losing tens of billions today, it's going to be reduced to, like, 100 million. And now for your own constitutional law. I want to avoid calling him an asshole or, therefore, a pasculi, as some lawmakers always criticize whoever proposes a law, I am far away. But I think that the amendment to the constitutional law should be submitted by the government, not by Members. I think that the constitutional law must be brief and clear that it cannot be, and now allow me to look into the bill, that is, Article 97, which has a) to e) paragraphs. (b) The Supreme Audit Office has the right to control all public funds, and now I would quote it literally: exercise control with the property of legal entities with the ownership of a state or a local authority. And I don't think we need to calculate whether ČEZ is supposed to be in it or if there are going to be Czech Forests or dozens of other companies in it, because we wouldn't name it, but it will be clear to all of us that if the funds are coming from public budgets, they must be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office. I could continue here, but I do not want to delay the House of Honor, because there are still a few speakers registered here, so thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u29	Thank you, Mr Štětin. I will ask Mr. Jan zahradník. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u30	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution I would like to return to the beginning of the legislative procedure. It is a law that introduces a change to the Constitution, a constitutional law that has a special status. When there is talk of a change in the Constitution, citizens and we as their elected representatives should pay attention. This amendment to the Constitution, the amendment to the basic document of our Republic, is presented as a parliamentary initiative, firstly, and secondly, it is presented in an emergency meeting of the House. There may be suspicion that the law, as has already been said here during the discussion of the agenda of our meeting, is presented as a kind of camouflage of the law, which is commonly referred to here as Lex Babiš. If that is the case and if suspicion is justified, then I wonder what role all the signed Members of the TOP 09 who signed up for that law play in this matter. I'll get back to my experience with the SAO. I remember the first inspections from the SAO to the newly created regions in 2001. Of course, at that time the Supreme Audit Office already controlled a certain part of the region's management, because the budgets of the regions, as we know, are partly made up of through state funding subsidies. At the time, the office was a feared but respected institution under the leadership of the eternal Lubomír Voleník, whom I would like to remind here, the first president of the SAO. I have such a suspicion that this proposed law is based on some assumption that public funds at the level of local authorities are being spent somehow and priori incorrectly and that only increased control can remedy this supposedly poor state of affairs. And here, as in my previous contribution, I would say that thousands of honest municipal politicians do not deserve this suspicion. It even goes so far as some of them are being accused, judged, but I must say that recently one of them has been fully liberated. President Fiala mentioned the current levels of control. The regional authorities, in particular the municipalities, are controlled by the regional authorities. The methodology is already underway. Regional authorities tried, at least in southern Bohemia it was customary, not only to control and search for errors, but even to teach municipalities in the process of control how to properly implement budget rules, how to manage correctly. All in all, I must say that during the eight years, we have managed to teach the municipalities how to manage properly. [[17,00 hours]] Multiplicity of controls. Not only duplication, but multiplicity is also a big problem. On the other hand, cases where one or the other control results well and the third control finds such serious deficiencies that sanctions against the local authority are imposed on the basis of it are not unusual. Finally, I would like to say something about the cost of control activities. An aspect was mentioned here that it would reach the village once every 300, or another theory says once every 150 years. When Senator Miloš Vysistil here explained the negative position of the Senate in the last House last year, he mentioned the number that when this law, the village control, was introduced in Slovakia, there were 120 officials in their highest audit institution. It is clear from the point of view that we would need 240 officials, which the Office should increase its capacity to be able to properly manage, as is probably the intention, the municipalities. Finally, a rhetorical question - I know the answer. So if the Supreme Audit Office is to control where what, including municipalities, who controls the Supreme Audit Office? Yes, we control it. Will we have the capacity to check his control activity? Will we be able to be that SAO watchman if he has such a huge shot of his activity, which one of us is he running for in front of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. And the final enrollment is Mrs Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u32	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to comment on the proposed amendment of the SAO's powers by quoting its President, Mr Miloslav Kala, so that there is no misunderstanding that I do not wish to extend the powers of the SAO to myself as mayor. I hereby announce something called the so-called. conflict of interest. And I believe that this will also become a good bondon in this Chamber of Deputies, and that other colleagues will do so in cases where there will also be other departments, other bills than this. According to one of the petitioners, even this proposal is a kind of libation for the left-wing Senate, which would otherwise not approve the text of the Constitution. So unfortunately, I consider this proposal to be a kind of political hand, not a struggle for some kind of justice or transparency, when the anti-corruption fight is given up in advance, only the explanatory report does not say anything about it. I hope that neither the President of the Supreme Audit Office nor any of those who may be looking at it from the record will suspect that he would not want to save and control that he would not be pleased to be in any conflict of interest. According to him, it is the exact opposite of what the petitioners are wearing, not the extension of powers, but their embellishment. Moreover, territorially self-governing bodies are subject to a number of checks at present. For example: Economic review. Checks on the exercise of delegated powers. Financial control by the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, by the financial authorities, by other superior bodies. As in the case of my city part of the capital of Prague, we have our own internal auditors, which we also had to establish on the basis of the law. So, on average, the annual volume of these checks in larger organisations, in larger authorities, is around 10 to 12 checks per year. For smaller organisations, e.g. the contribution organisations which we set up, such as primary schools, kindergartens or various libraries, social services centres, where the controls range around three or four checks per year. In this situation, the introduction of a new kind of control, which I at least see as limiting this control of its nature and making it difficult, seems completely pointless. Mathematics is relentless in this regard. If the SAO currently carries out 40 checks a year, if it completely resigned from the checks it carries out today and controlled only the municipalities, each municipality would be checked once not in 300 years, but in 156 years. In view of this fact, the assurance from the explanatory memorandum that the amendment will not be reflected in the increase in the SAO budget chapter cannot be taken seriously. The SAO's costs would increase substantially. We know that we are, after the approval of the state budget, so, of course, would be expensive in addition to the adoption of new and new controllers and the operation of this institution as such. And I want to know how much money it's going to be about, even considering the inefficiency I'm trying to describe here. Indeed, in this proposal, the aim of this amendment is not to extend the controls, but rather to limit them in relation to those who are already subject to this control, and I am very concerned about that. The proposal is evaluated by the Supreme Audit Office as an asshole. It is even considered an abuse of the legislative process. We have him in an emergency meeting. And in their comments, you will actually find a sentence: what a group of petitioners do is that they change this way of defining what we control to who we control. So I would very nicely ask the plaintiffs to consider whether it really is better than adopting a legislative asshole's bill to redo and submit it to us again and better. I would very much intercede for this procedure. The ODS is an opposition party, but I can certainly speak not only for myself, but also for my colleagues, that we are ready to discuss the bill. It is not that we do not want some checks to be done better and more effective, but what has been presented to us really is not what we would all expect from it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u33	Thank you, ma'am. The next enrollment, perhaps the very last one, is Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to this debate, I have such a fundamental objection, I would say, against the method of thinking of many of us, fortunately not all of us. Every time every law is constructed and every rule is made, we have to assume that humans are not angels. But when I listen to the debate here, I feel that many of us feel that we are a kind of a nation of criminals that need to be controlled all the time. There are thousands of mayors and mayors, and we're still thinking ahead of time that they're gonna steal something, that they're hiding something, see the previous law. You know, these considerations are needed. But I would like to remind you here that basically the first rational design of some legal rules was the creation of an American constitution. Here I refer to a beautiful reading called the Federalist List. You know, the Jay, the Hamilton and the others, they were deeply religious, and they created the brakes and the balance because they were convinced and believed that humans were sinful. But not that they're all criminals. That is why the American constitution was created as liberally as it was created. And let's imagine, it's been working for 200 years. Those different waves, when in different nations and states, we take on some wave, that there's so much to control... [[17.10 hours]] As an example, I would give Belgium, where in 1831 or 1830 even a model was created, that the three fundamental powers that exist in the state should be four, which means that there should still be too much control, and they introduced it into their constitution. It was not long before they were very surprised that when they basically accepted the ideas of the French Revolution and thought that democracy would bring, among other things, a reduction in the state apparatus, they were shocked by the way the apparatus grew. And at that time, it was mistaken to think that democracy must always have more officials than it is in other states. Finally, they found out, and there may be, in our country, I think it came out in 1899, a book that I also recommend is called the Government in democracy, written by the Belgian author, and he just realized that by constantly increasing control, people's behaviour did not improve at all, but there was an incredible increase in the state apparatus and, of course, the means that it cost Belgium. We are not in a situation where all mayors, representatives and citizens are criminals, not even potential criminals. There's a lot of control going on with us, and when I look at, for example, the representatives of the YES movement in front of me, you're actually, when I transform it into my language, you're actually like it's bothering you that some of the things - I use a word that doesn't work. And now, ask who will run for you in the municipal elections, when being mayor is no longer easy at all. And now these people are going to exhibit themselves - not only will they walk naked, they're almost walking today, they won't be able to do anything about it, they'll be constantly controlled. Indeed, the practice is that several things are controlled several times with diverse conclusions. But what's the worst - and it bothered me about the previous law that involved the publication of documents: Are we sure there will be no policeman who, for example, for some mayor or some clerk to neglect to publish any contract, any, if you want, invoice or tax document that he will not be immediately deported, criminally prosecuted and in five years some court will say that this is not a criminal offence? Are we also thinking about the link between criminal law and today's police character, that we will not continue to haunt all those who want to apply for public office, so that they prefer to do what they did before? Do you know what this will lead to? Those good people won't go into government and government because they'll be better off where they are. And that shouldn't be the goal. And I think that one of those things that we are discussing today is bound to lead to the fact that those good people who really don't need just to get rich there, go into public administration, they're just not gonna go into it because it's not gonna be worth it. And what I'm saying right now is not just from the head of a Pavel Blažek, but it is necessary to study literature as to the consequences of some of the wonderful decisions of those media waves. I remembered when I was once, it was a long time ago, as a witness at a wedding, and that's exactly what we're discussing today, many of these laws, when the minister said, Today is a beautiful beautiful day, everyone was celebrating, and then those days come everyday. And I'm warning you that if we approve all these things that are coming down on us just because it looks modern and beautiful, everyday days for those, we're not gonna be the ones that are going to be involved, they're not really gonna be regular weekdays, but they're gonna be full of checks, and they're gonna be annoying and they're gonna stop life, because no one's gonna have the guts to decide anything to not be controlled, they're gonna be dragged in. It can lead to all of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u35	I thank Mr Blažek. Please, Mrs Jourová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, with respect to your time, only factually and very briefly. For club YES, I would like to say that we agree with the principle of strengthening the competence of the SAO and that we assume that during the legislative process there will be scope for us to open up the issue of self-government control so that we do not affect their constitutional right to self-management of property. And then the controls of companies with public holdings, so that we don't touch their ability to operate on the market at all. But that's not what I wanted to talk about, more to say here the position of the YES movement. I would like to say that the law will, of course, be written and somehow the SAO will be implemented, virtually. carried out. And here I think that we should not think of this as some kind of rug raid on self-government, but I assume that the SAO will do something called risk analysis in routine controls in the European Union. This means that it will select companies, municipalities, regions that will be in some kind of suspicion that they do not dispose of property according to legal regulations. We are used to this from the European supervisory authorities. When European projects come to us to control, they always very well detect the very risky ones, they go to them and unfortunately find their findings. Another thing we may not get into the law, but it should become a good practice, is what is called in the rule of law, virtually. in the procedural rules of the Czech courts, "not in the same case." Not twice in the same thing. That means, if it's known that there was already another subject's control on the community in that matter, then there's no more control. So I think this is going to be very dependent on how the SAO is going to perform this competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u37	Thank you, ma'am. With another proper application, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u38	I'll respond. You know, not in the same thing means someone can't be punished twice for the same offense. If we introduce the principle that it is not possible to control the same thing twice, this will lead to what some successful entrepreneurs call controlled control. That means they'll order control from a certain office where they know someone to rule out anyone else's control forever in the future. If I understand correctly how you say not twice in the same thing. As far as punishment is concerned, not twice in the same case, this must be common in criminal law and we may not have to discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u39	I thank Mr Blažek. President of the Civil Democratic Party, Mr Fiala, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u40	Mr President, after hearing this debate, I propose for the Citizen Democratic Party that the proposal be returned to the petitioner for completion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u41	Thank you, Mr President, I am registering this, it is the same proposal that has already been made by Mr Grospič. So it's the second draft. With another priority right, Mr Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on today's points 3 and 4 related to the Dawn movement. The Dawn Movement will not support the draft amendment of the Constitutional Act on the competences of the SAO, because this proposal de facto and de iure reduces these competences and does not allow all public budgets to be controlled. The draft constitutional law limits the control of municipalities only to compliance with the laws. The SAO will not be able to control the spending of funds in terms of economy. The definition of the powers of the SAO must be such that all public funds and the property of legal entities with the ownership of the State or the territorial administrative unit are controlled. We will not support this bill. We want to push through a text that will allow really broad and consistent control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u43	I don't know whether with proper or factual, make a deal. [[to Mr Blazek and Mr Kalousek]] Thank you. So, with a factual remark, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u44	You know, even when I see the key point of today's discussion approaching us, I have to say that it is a complete irony and absurdity of today - we meet to circumvent one law that is called illustration. And to cover it up, we're gonna put a lot of responsibilities on the mayor and deputy. What a beautiful day!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to request a break at the TOP 09 and Mayor's meeting of one hour and 42 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-01-21-ps2013-005-01-003-003.u47	Thank you, and I'm interrupting our meeting by 19.01. That concludes this meeting for today, and our meeting will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. So I'm interrupting the House meeting by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you.
