ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and other related laws /house print 252/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the Government's bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and other related laws. The draft law is, in particular, a response to the analysis of the state of tax laws following legislative processes carried out in connection with the recodification of private law, the requirements resulting from the need to fulfil the content of the relevant items of the Government's declaration and the coalition contract. The content of the proposal is mainly to settle with the still ineffective parts of the Single Collection Point Act, to provide a tax benefit in the form of an increase in the tax deduction to the second and other dependent children, to renew the basic tax deduction to the working pensioners and to adopt restrictions relating to the possibility of applying expenditure in the form of flat rates applied to income from the separate activity. Other selected changes and legislative technical clarifications are also made within the scope of the Income Tax Act. At the same time, the proposal includes thematically related changes made in the Reserves Act and the Tax Code, where the implementation of some other measures following, in particular, the fight against tax evasion and the extension of the electronicisation of tax administration is further proposed. The efficacy is proposed on 1 January 2015. In order to maintain continuity compared to the pre-recodification status of private law, the possibility of applying it for the tax period started in 2014 is proposed for the selected changes. Finally, I ask you to approve the Government's bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and other related laws. At the same time, I note that, in the context of a detailed debate, it will be proposed to shorten the deadline for the examination of the draft law in committees to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Karel Rais. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u4	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I think we have heard a very comprehensive view of the law. In other words, I will, of course, speak similarly. We know that the Senate's measures at the end of last year and with the acquisition of efficiency from 1. 1. 2014 has implemented an extensive regulation of all tax law laws, which has followed up with a comprehensive change in private law, as they say, the recodification of private law. Of course, this recodification, or the implementation of these changes, interferes with tax laws. So we are faced with the problem that we need to implement changes in the Civil Code, in companies and cooperatives, the Private International Law Act and other laws. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that, particularly in the Income Tax Act, there are a number of provisions which lead to a reduction in the levy burden on taxpayers of personal income tax by favouring the other, third and every other child who lives with the taxpayer in a co-employed household. Like the Minister, I recommend, of course, to refer the bill to second reading and to instruct the Committee on Budgets to discuss in detail the comments and opinions of the members of the Committee, so as to pass this opinion by means of a motion for a resolution to the Committee on behalf of the Chamber of Deputies. I agree with the view that the deadline for a 30-day hearing should be shortened here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have the priority right of Mr Petr Fiala and then of Mr Votava and Mr Dolejš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, Professor Rais, said that he would speak in a similar manner to the Minister of Finance. Then I won't speak the same way. Here, the government is proposing a very complex change in income taxes. It is an attempt to change the entire tax collection system quite large, and it is not a clear concept, at least it is not clear to me the concept and where it is going, what the target state will eventually be. I have to say that some of the proposals are positive from our point of view, I am not hiding this, but most of them are more likely to have different dangers and have basically a negative impact. If there aren't problematic parts that I'm about to talk about, then I'm sure the citizens of the Democrats would like to support some things. We would very much like to support, for example, a tax discount on another child and another child, which corresponds to our idea of family policy. We would really be in favour of such an adjustment. We would also, of course - this will not be a surprise for you - like to vote to renew the tax rebate for working pensioners. In the end, it was a proposal that we came up with here. We presented a similar amendment. But we will not vote in favour of this amendment because it also wants to tax pensions in addition to the discount. And for us, the idea of punishing pensioners because they get a higher income is unacceptable. We think it's a completely wrong principle. What we certainly cannot support and what we consider to be a big mistake is the limitation of the flat-rate for some businessmen. This will particularly affect those, as it is in this government proposal, who have large expenditures with the purchase of input investment. That means no, as they say sometimes, that lawyers and the like can afford it, that's not true. This will affect a number of businessmen, such as craftsmen, mechanics, farmers and others, and it will be disadvantageous for them. I'm just going to remind you what many of you know, or at least they suspect that businesses are not enjoying a number of benefits that other employees have, they don't have a certain amount of income, they're not entitled to work aids, to severance payments, to limited liability for damages, to paid leave, they don't get overtime, they don't have notice periods, they don't have employee benefits, they don't take care of themselves, they employ other people, they carry a huge risk - and to burden businessmen in this way, in our opinion, the journey is absolutely wrong. [[10.40 hours]] I would point out one more thing here, and that's that flat rates, it's not only that someone is free of something, but it also means that the administration is simplifying, that businessmen save money for accounting, tax advice and other things. And if we put the flats back in place, then we're going to complicate the system again, we're going to increase the bureaucratic burden that - please talk to businessmen and entrepreneurs and tell you that what's bothering them most isn't whether the tax will rise by a percentage up or down, but what's most troubling is bureaucracy and what the state is constantly new and new. Removing a flat-rate or limiting a flat-rate will mean a new burden for a wide range of businessmen and small entrepreneurs. Finally, I would like to say that we do not propose rejection at first reading, but we will try to apply our comments and amendments to the committee meetings and, of course, to plenary afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u7	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Votava's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the amendment to the Income Tax Act tabled by this coalition government of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. This is certainly one of the most important tax patterns that we will be discussing at the moment. This is therefore a key law whereby the coalition makes it very clear that it is absolutely serious about its promises contained in the government's programming declaration. In this case, therefore, seriously with the promises of a fundamental correction of the tax system in the Czech Republic. The electoral programme of social democracy is also being implemented. We are certainly correcting what the previous right-wing governments have left behind by the amendment to the Income Tax Act, and these are the negative effects of the seven-year right-wing government policy, the Civil Democratic Party policy and the TOP 09. Right-wing policies of ruthless cross-cutting, insensitive treatment of vulnerable population groups and the destabilisation of public services resulting from this. In recent years, the previous right-wing coalitions have gradually, but systematically, devastated the tax system of the Czech Republic with their so-called reforms. In particular, they have significantly reduced the rate of redistribution, with a direct destruction effect on the development of public finances. They reduced taxes to high-income population groups and thus transferred the tax burden to medium- and low-income population groups. Thus, they deliberately strengthened the share of indirect taxes at the expense of direct and equity taxes in tax collection. But that is far from all. The tax system of the Czech Republic has become significantly unfair under the previous coalition. A system that is directly crawled through various types of tax privileges, privileges enabling interest groups or individuals to be taxed less than others. This "systemic" injustice was then further strengthened by the unwillingness of previous governments to take substantial and effective measures to combat tax evasion. There are so many problems in the tax system of the Czech Republic that unfortunately they cannot be solved at once. However, they are quite obvious and very well identifiable and also described. The current tax system is inconspicuous, complex, unfair and inefficient. A system in whose dark corners some can move very efficiently and profit from. The aim of this coalition is to correct this system. The current government coalition has also fully applied in its programming declaration to remedy the tax system. Therefore, she has just acceded to the amendment of Act No 586/1992 Coll. and other accompanying laws as a first step, which, given the danger of delay, should address the most recent problems of our tax system in particular. Although the proposed law summarizes a number of necessary measures, namely measures related to the new Civil Code and the Act on Commercial Corporations, the Minister has already mentioned this, in fact the key issue is a thorough revision of Act No.458/2011 Coll., this is the Act on the Single Collection Point, the so-called JIM, and the measures resulting from the Coalition Agreement, namely the increase of the tax discount for the second and other children, the renewal of the basic discount for working pensioners, the limitation of the setting of spending flats for self-employed persons. The key task presented by the amendment to the Income Tax Act is therefore, above all, a fundamental change to the existing, albeit ineffective Act number 458/2011 Coll., on a single collection point, a law which is directly crystalline expression and completion of all negative trends and practices that have emerged in our tax system over the last ten years. It is to remedy this highly controversial law that the coalition has a chance to show its intentions in the field of the tax system of the Czech Republic and its cultivation very well. I would like to remind myself in three areas of danger and the danger it poses to a single collection point, with which, of course, we do not otherwise have a systemic problem, we understand that a single collection point has its meaning, but what the former Minister of Finance Kalousek has implemented in that law is certainly something that bothers us. First of all, it contains a significant and, in relation to the stability of public budgets, a destructive reduction in tax revenue. In the absence of a fundamental revision of the measure of this law, its direct negative impact on public finances in 2015 would be at least 20 billion. Crowns. This still valid, and, as I said, the inefficient single collection point law also contains a deepening of the distortion of the tax environment compared to the persons employed and employed, thereby causing a significant risk of derived negative impacts on tax collection and insurance. The Act provided for a significant decrease in social insurance premiums rates for the Ministry of Finance from 29,2% to 6,5 per cent at the doubling of the assessment base. This would, of course, mean a decrease in the burden of social insurance to about half of today's already low level, but directly an invitation to the system. That's right. Furthermore, this law, although ineffective but valid, contains a whole battery of tax measures aimed against employees. As a result of an increase in the rate of health insurance premiums paid by an employee by 2 per cent in the reciprocal reduction of the employer, it was directly due to an increase in the already high taxation of wages and salaries for employees. However, it also contains the minimum tax advantage granted to employees by the current tax system. All the measures submitted by the amendment are therefore aimed at remedying Act No.458/2011 Coll., preventing a decrease in taxation on personal income tax, preventing an unjustified decline in social and health insurance for civil servants and preventing an increase in insurance premiums for health insurance for employees by 2 percent. That's what I was remembering. Of course, this proposed amendment to the law also contains programme objectives, as I said at the beginning of my speech, very important, a number of positive changes and measures that will help families with children, socially weaker citizens and seniors in particular. This is, as the Minister has already said, and I would like to repeat it, by increasing the tax discount on the second and third children by 200, respectively. 300 crowns a month, so we return more than 1.3 billion to working parents in 2015. CZK and in 2016 then 1.6 billion. Crowns. I think that this is an expression of the national policy of the government coalition, and tax advantages are one of the most effective forms of helping families with children. [[10.50 hours]] It is also a refund of the income tax discount for our working pensioners, amounting to CZK 24,480 per year. This discount, and I think that everyone should be aware, was taken by our working pensioners by former Minister of Finance, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, with the Civil Democratic Party in hand. All the more so is the hypocritical submission of a parliamentary proposal from Members of the Civic Democratic Party, when they wanted to return this discount to working pensioners. I think it's really hypocritical. First we take it away from them, then we populically try to get it back. I don't think honesty is involved. The refund of the tax discount, I think, is certainly good news for our pensioners. Good news along with pension valorization. And so the government fulfills its promises from the programming statement. In short, I would like to mention measures such as the reduction of flat-rate expenditures. The President of the Fiala has spoken of this. I think that even his expression is quite hypocritical, because I know very well that Nečasův' government was trying to move these flats, of course, downwards, so it didn't do so at the end of the day. These flats are of course used by the self-employed, businessmen, landlords and others. A flat-rate ceiling of 60 per cent for income from trade and 80 per cent for income from agricultural production and craft activity is newly introduced, up to the limit of CZK 2 million. The 30 and 40 percent have already been implemented before, and if I'm not mistaken, it has been done just during the reign of Nečas. The common argument of the right-wing opposition is that this measure is against tradesmen and small entrepreneurs. I think it's pure nonsense. I would like to remind you that the flat rates reached the current level in 2006, if I'm right, and that was the left-wing government that raised these spending flat rates. And we're not changing these spending flats as far as percentage is concerned. Unfortunately, it is true, however, that from the original intention for which flat-rates were introduced, namely the reduction of administration in tradesmen and small entrepreneurs, when they do not have to, of course, if they use flat-rates, they do not have to keep accounting, although often a lot of these entrepreneurs keep accounting anyway, in order to find out how they are and if it is sometimes not more advantageous for them to tax from accounting rather than spending flat-rates, it has become such unjustified optimization, simply reducing the tax base. And, after all, when we look at the collection of this tax, if CZK 17.9 billion were collected on this tax in 2006, then only CZK 2.7 billion in 2013. So even that, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly worth noting and considering. Therefore, the ceiling of two million crowns. It will no longer be possible to use flat-rate expenditure over this income and there will be a need to keep accounts. I think that most businessmen and small entrepreneurs, for whom spending flats have just been introduced to reduce administrative demands, so that they do not have to keep accounting, that many of them will not exceed the limit of CZK 2 million. So much for spending flats, which, of course, create certain emotions. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion. The submitted government amendment to the Income Tax Act removes mainly from the Single Collection Point Act, I called it Kalouskův's landmines, which he then introduced into this Act in the form of changes in tax and social laws. These changes, of course, deformed our tax system, passed an unfair tax burden on employees, and, after all, also meant a substantial loss of revenue from the state budget. I talked about the impact of about CZK 20 billion in 2015. The most important measure of this government amendment, however, is to help, and I would like to stress this, to help families with children, low-income groups of our citizens and seniors. It is because, of course, we are increasing the tax credit to the second and third children, as I said. It's an expression of the national policy of the government coalition. And it is also a refund of the income tax deduction to our working pensioners, which was stolen by the Minister of Finance for the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek hand in hand with his colleagues from the Civil Democratic Party. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u9	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with the priority right of Mr Kalousek and then the rapporteur and then all the others duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, he has already said this to my previous speaker - the budgetary impact of this bill. Although I don't think the number is entirely accurate. If this law enters into force at 1. 1. 2015, then the natural persons will pay 14 billion more in 2015 than if this law had not entered into force, and in 2016 CZK 26 billion more than if this law had not entered into force. It is noteworthy that while in the convergence programme, the Minister for Finance honestly admits these budgetary implications, the draft available to us does not mention these budgetary implications. I think it's good to meet them at the House. It seems that hiding some information from the House is becoming a popular government sport. We do not believe that it is necessary in the current situation for natural persons to pay 14 billion more in 2015 on direct taxes than is foreseen in the current legal situation, which should be effective at 1. 1. But 2015, it will probably not be effective because this law will come into effect. You have enough majority to do that, and it'll be legitimate. But that is why, in 2015, individuals will pay 14 billion more than they would have had this bill not been passed. And in 2016, CZK 26 billion more. These aren't my numbers, please. These are Babiš's Treasury Secretary's numbers. I refer to page 13 of the Convergence Programme, Table 3.1. Because we think it's not right, I suggest we dismiss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u11	Thank you, and now, please, to the rapporteur's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm going to respond to information from the ODS that fell here. A number of things have been said by the President of the Committee on Budgets, but I think it would be good to repeat this in a simple way. First of all, it is precisely the policy that has been pre-selected. It's from the coalition. There is an increase in the tax advantage for families with other children. As far as it is concerned - I will use the word of the attack that we are limiting flats to businessmen, I think that the ANO movement is one of the institutions or political movements that supports a clearly businessman. It is necessary when it is said that there are limits, so there is also a need to say that the flat rate really concerns amounts above the two million crowns. And if you are moving in that environment, you know that this impact will, of course, be on activities that are more likely to exceed the two million, that it will unfortunately not reach a handyman like a waterman. So I think it's back to helping the businessmen. - I don't mean barristers like lawyers, of course, gentlemen, which I see here on the right. [[11.00 hours]] On the other hand, I am glad that Petr Fiala did not sing here because I do not have to, and otherwise I agree with him that he respects that we have a common interest, raising tax discounts on others and other children and raising discounts on working pensioners, but that is the question of what is possible. And I think this law is the maximum possible today. In terms of form, I would quite like to repeat what I said that we would like this law to be discussed within a shorter period of 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u13	Yes, I'm registering your proposal. Thank you, and now, with a factual remark, Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I would like to respond to Mr Kalousek through you. I was talking about the impact on the state budget that it would have had if it were effective for them - 20 billion. That's just for clarification. He was throwing out some numbers that I don't know where he got from. But maybe I'd just like to quote one statement from former Minister Kalousek, who he did as Finance Minister, as he looked at the flats when he criticizes today that we've put down spending flats. He says: Today's form of flats - when he was a minister - today's form of flats, which is among the most generous in Europe, that he has long resented. We have to get back to it. It will be one of the measures I propose for discussion. The flats were as high as they were until 2005. Their appearance here is unprecedented in the world. Farmers, according to his idea, could use a flat rate of 50 per cent, people living on copyright fees of 30 per cent, businessmen, notaries, tax advisors, and another 25% flat rate. Rental entrepreneurs could apply a flat rate of 20 per cent. If my colleague Kalousek criticizes that we are going against businessmen, which I do not think at all, the ceiling cannot touch a number of small businessmen and entrepreneurs, he himself has prepared or considered changing, when, on the contrary, he will reduce the percentage of flat rates. A little conscience, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u15	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Before I invite Mr Dolejš to the microphone, allow me to read Mr Schwarzenberg's apology, who apologizes for today's meeting between 9 and 15 hours on account of the working session. Now, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we have a bill before us, which, as I have listened to the debate so far, should be fundamental. Well, at least it's extensive who you've got in your hand, so it's almost 300 pages. There's about 18 laws changing, and there's some 600-700 of those paragraph points. I didn't exactly count it, but roughly to that extent. Extensive is undoubtedly. The question is, and the chairman of the Committee on Budgets has said here that when a new government wants to give a tax system, the way it was shaped in the previous parliamentary term, a little bit in the dry cleaners or in the reform hall, to what extent this change is fundamental. I dare say it's not that big of a change. Of course, who remembers what the law looked like with the introduction of a single collection point - please do not confuse it, it is not Jim Beam - so it was also a rather extensive legislative complex, which, by moving away, would logically create numerous legislative problems, including the social levy system, and this needs to be reacted in a similar way to the facts of the amendment to the Civil Code and other things. But in what essential parameters does the tax system change? Is there any way that tax rates are changing? No. Is there any more fundamental change in the tax base, that is, the way that remains, taking into account the different deductions and concessions? Well, in a fundamental way, I dare say it doesn't change. Perhaps we have hope, because here it was said that deformations and complexity are so great that the government has chosen the per-partes method, more often the salami method. This year is a tax moratorium, this tax package is ready for next year, but that doesn't seem to be the end of it, there will be other tax adjustments. After all, these gradual steps should in some way be revised more fundamentally. The target situation is a matter which is not discussed in detail in the Government's programming declaration or in the coalition agreement. Perhaps this is because when we compare the electoral campaigns of key actors in the government coalition, I mean social democracy and especially the ANO movement, we will not find too many contact areas. The agreement, as it is practically shaping the tax system, is born on the run, I would say, and it is the changes that are called revolutionary is, I think, somewhat exaggerated. I'll remind you of some of the election vows. I think that during this parliamentary term we can probably wave at the idea of a special corporate tax, whether it took the form of a sector tax or a second-rate tax, taxing some higher turnover of large companies. Nor does it appear that the introduction of a greater progression into direct taxes, as well as income taxes, constitute any clearly declared government objective on which there would be agreement. When the crisis came, as a gesture of some solidarity, a solidarity contribution was introduced, so-called. The millionaire dose, temporarily, and this dose, of course, by being temporary, either disappears or from year to year, I suspect 2016, as I have noticed in government considerations, could be converted into a system element, i.e. basically a standard second rate. This is not yet on the table, so it should be said that we will not find the idea of greater tax progression in this package. That's if we're talking about essential measures. Of the program things there are three items that have already been discussed here, I think that not only in relation to the folks for whom it is, I would say, a standard topic - tax relief for families with children, but that in general, when a family already has something that is subject to taxation, it will certainly please her that there will be a smaller discount. It's no big deal, but thank God for using the People's Vocabulary. With regard to the second objective - discounts for working pensioners. Yes, when there was a search for where to get the money into the budget, the money was small, the crisis came up, so this tax relief, over which there was a complex dispute, whether it was a certain political advantage, or whether it was more or less a proportional approach. I even remember that a constitutional complaint was filed in the Senate a while ago. But the Constitutional Court has not yet severed this problem. [[11.10 hours]] The truth is, however, that this abolition of the relief for working pensioners was limited in time, and that if we are returning it now, we are actually returning it a year before this restriction was due to end. It's God-like. I have to say for us, we had it on the electoral program, and it's gonna be sooner? We are pleased to note that the poorest pensioners, those who are already older, those who, I would say, are amortized by life and are unable to carry out some work in addition to their pension, so that we do not help them. But those who can, and unfortunately often because of the situation in life, have to earn, let them be relieved in this way. After all, we were required by senior organizations, namely their umbrella organisations of the Council of Seniors. What probably aroused the biggest debate and what was also born in difficult compromises, and here I have to say that we perceive the compromise and that this is certainly not the reason for us to support the rejection of this law at first reading, and that I think that this can go through a certain substantive - I stress in substance - the discussions at second reading, so these are the unfortunate or happy flat rates. Yes, it is true that the government, with a mix of the left, raised certain flat rates around 2006, and I can even admit, I have to admit that that was when the representatives of the KSČM club also voted for this increase. Then there was quite and greatly excessive relief for entrepreneurs in times of crisis. The connection "in times of crisis" is very important, because, of course, when people don't spend it, who does it fall on first? Small businessmen, of course. So, although the right-wing government did not know what to do with other problems, the employees who were losing their jobs did not help much, but at least it relieved their electorate - or the electorate to which it is related, we also place small businessmen in our lectorate, especially small businessmen - and relieved them in this way. But if the crisis is really gone, let us admit that this relief is disproportionate. And now, of course, what is and is not appropriate is the subject of various debates. I don't suppose we're going back to such emotional debates about the extent to which parasite businessmen are. I don't think they're gonna give us a budget and they're the main vampires on the body of public finances. No way! There were debates about the so-called minimum tax. They're gone. It seems that this really is not the right tool for this time. Ideas have emerged to cancel the basic tax discount. They're gone, too. So now we're only in a more rational situation of setting up reliefs, not a percentage, but those categories and how to put them on the spot. And I think that this is the core of a compromise that is not so bad if we consider certain disparities that objectively exist here, and the degree of abuse of relief towards tradesmen. I must say that when all these three measures are reflected in the budgetary consequences, i.e. how much it will earn us and how much it will take us, so since income tax is, in a way, the basic instrument of redistribution, the effect is not fundamentally redistributive, at least when I base on estimates that are in the explanatory report and which are, of course, limited by an estimate of economic development and, of course, the response of the environment. If I add up the pluses and subtract the negatives, the estimate is over 2 billion. CZK, which is definitely not a crucial item in the trillion-dollar budget. If Mr. Emeritus Finance Minister Kalousek here mentioned that he had read how much tax growth would be next year, I don't know if he had sufficiently separated the changes in tax collection caused by the legislation and caused the economy to go into growth after all. I don't want to piss off now, there are various pessimistic predictions for next year, but consensually, short-term forecasts confirm that this could be a 2% growth, and this, of course, increases tax revenue with a certain varying degree of elasticity, because, of course, indirect taxes and taxes respond differently to economic growth. So maybe there's a hidden dog out there somewhere, and I don't think there's much point in bringing back the debate on the convergence program that served, the period-convergence program anyway, we're going to be writing a new one in a while - which has served certain, let's just say, political goals. And I understand political debate, but here I think it doesn't really belong to this law. Since I have said that we do not support the rejection of this law at first reading, that I may have already said some general reservations, let me now indicate what may be waiting for you to do for second reading, at least update it, because it is certain, let's say, the window of our factual, even conceptual thinking. We believe that the government could have been bolder in its tax considerations, that it could have even dealt with another press that would soon come to its turn, i.e. value added tax, and if our ideas for this press would prevail, we must, of course, think about the profitability of these steps. We would simply address VAT correction in a slightly different way, regardless of the unnecessary number of three rates, simplicity, but also the price effects of changes, to a greater extent than the three items that the government has agreed on so far. So it is logical that, in addition to economic growth, there is some money to be found, and here I think it is possible to choose a greater rate of progression of income tax, and that is a reasonably economic situation, or not some Scandinavian progression, but not to wait at a second rate for a year, if I'm right now, 2016 or 2017, I don't know now, but since next year - now is the last chance, then it is too late - to put the second rate on the middle income group. I understand that some of you have more significant representation in your electorate and that this is a sensitive matter for you, but just 18 percent instead of 15 percent of the revenue over 50,000 is nothing dramatic. And just as 21 percent above 100 thousand, or millionaires, is not so dramatic, and it can produce an effect in the case of a growing economy that compensates for a slightly different VAT adjustment. So it's a vizo. I am aware, of course, that not only one collection point is cancelled or postponed, but that, for example, there is also the abolition of a supergross wage in play. I don't think we should go into any more complicated tax interventions right now. If there is a consensus, of course, we can also speed up the super gross wage, but the figures that I have given here and the balance sheet considerations relate to the fact that the super gross wage will not end until a year later. So that's my and vizo towards income tax. Since it's so extensive a matery that there are a lot of things there, I expect a discussion on other topics as well. You may have noticed that the idea of tax relief for investment funds is coming back. I guess logically, because this industry needs some support to get things going in the Czech Republic, but on the other hand, it is true that in the Czech Republic there is an under-average capital taxation already today, that we have not found the courage to return dividend taxation, as far as possible in a progressive way, etc. etc. So that's the kind of debate I'm expecting. I do not know how we will be able to reach a consensus quickly in the summer months, but I had to say this, because if this does not happen on the budget committee, you will hear similar ideas and, in particular, concrete proposals at the September meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u17	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with Mr Votava in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to respond to some comments from my honourable colleague Jiří Dolejš, through you, of course. He said there was nothing revolutionary in this proposal. It couldn't even be expected that something would be so revolutionary, and I made it clear that we would proceed gradually. I mean, he said salami method. He probably likes salami, so he leaned towards this. I'm sure it'll be one step at a time, of course. [[11.20 hours]] The first step, the crucial step, and I want to repeat that, and the Minister said it here, if I am not mistaken, was to remove all negative impacts from JIM, although, as I said clearly again, we agree with the principle of a single collection point. No one's questioning that. That's absolutely indisputable. At the same time, we wanted, not only to remove the negative phenomena from JIM, but to get there the fundamental priorities that this coalition has for 2015, and that is a tax discount for children, for the second and third children, which is a clear pro-family policy that this government coalition has in the programme. And secondly, it's a refund of a tax discount for working pensioners, because we think it's fair to working pensioners. And because-- who took their discount? Minister Kalousek. We're really taking this for a thing that wasn't supposed to happen, and we're fixing it. We are making amends to previous right-wing governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u19	Thank you for keeping the time limit. And now, please, to the microphone duly logged in to Mrs Havlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is only hearing criticism here, and I would like to commend the government this time. I welcome the package of tax measures that it has prepared and presented and for which citizens are waiting. These include the renewal of a tax discount for working pensioners. When this tax discount was abolished by the previous government, tens of thousands of pensioners were affected. They all took almost CZK 25,000 a year in taxes, even though most of them work for less salaries than they deserve, and as we all know, mostly for minimum wages. I didn't understand this measure from the start. Instead of motivating older people to continue to participate actively in society's life, to create values and to take advantage of their experience, the past government sent them all into old iron. Like many others, I considered this measure discriminatory. Why are pensioners supposed to be the only ones who can't take advantage of basic tax discounts? Do we come up with various reliefs and support for different groups of people here, but shouldn't pensioners have the most basic discount? Honestly, I was rooting for a constitutional complaint that suggested the abolition of the relevant part of the Income Tax Act. After my election, I addressed the question of re-establishing the discount and carefully checked whether the government would keep its promises. I am pleased that the renewal of the tax discount for working pensioners is part of the government's proposal and that we do not have to present it and prepare it as a parliamentary initiative. At this stage, this law really has a great chance of being approved by the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently in the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u21	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I believe that this is, aside from the Civil Service Act, actually the first material that clearly shows what policy this coalition will be ordaining for the years to come. And I hope that this amendment will be remembered by citizens sometime in 2018, 2019, 2020. You still want to come up with laws to create a certain power caste of bureaucrats without passability. And what bothers me about this law, not that you agree with the principle of JIM. I hope you all heard from the Prime Minister on Sunday that it's lost in fog, and there won't be a single collection point at this point. Therefore, dear citizens, you can thank Mr Sobotek, Babiš and Bělobrádek. So you're gonna keep running and handling papers, you're gonna be invited to social services, health insurance, you're gonna be carrying papers, and on and on and on. You come up with laws that don't help people. We were trying to reverse this trend in the past period. That means less bothering people, letting them breathe freely, less paperwork. You chose her way, which went for decades in another country. They had something to draw on, I mean Western European countries. As it turns out - because they may have stumbled upon - or are approaching the ceiling of their possibilities for further growth - a part of the Members of the Budget Committee - I hope you did so, you were on a business trip in France - could have seen. The difference between France and us is that they will fall from a higher economic base. So instead of really doing something for the wide classes of citizens, that means a single collection point, so you're sending this novel to hell. Regarding that, President Votava asked here where Kalousek got the numbers, he even quoted the number of the party of the explanatory report where the estimates are, which means: You will not relieve, you will take at least the 14 from the citizens and in 2016 16 billion extra. It has fallen that the ANO movement supports the tradesmen. In Sicily, the mob first shoots the breadwinner of the family, and then sheds touching tears at his funeral. So this is what it feels like you're doing. The chairman of the budget committee here said he wouldn't touch the tradesmen. You know, you see the lawyers, I see the plumbers, the electricians, the masons and the like. And you should know that if they're giving someone something, you probably didn't build a crib, so they have to take the material, and then the commission that's very small at today's pressure on the cost of construction work. So you're really gonna get them into the declass, and not that you're not. Really, this risk is at risk. Ask the real businessmen. You guys are just gonna suffocate the dying middle class. What will be the consequences for decades to come? There was a chance. We relieved them at a time when there was a lot of flowing into the ship. And I think before we cut off some kind of birthing chance here, you're just gonna blow it up. But it's exactly within your ideology that moves, we're going to get taxed, we're going to move a lot, we're going to tax it even more, and when it stops moving, we're going to start subsidizing. For God's sake, you must know that the world is going a completely different way, and that the potential that had economic growth and the building of the vast social states that it is ending! This is not a crisis of capitalism, it is the beginning of a new hope, because the current model is ending. There was a fall from my colleague Dolejš: Scandinavian progression. We're gonna get to the health charges jammed here. I found how it worked a while ago and probably at least in the same or harder form it works there today. You guys are still creating some kind of fantasy about how wonderful it is in there. This is not the case, they have reached, and especially Sweden has started this, followed by all Scandinavian countries, to reduce taxes for companies, preparing individuals, small entrepreneurs, because they know that they have stumbled upon the ceiling of their potential. And then there's the departure of capable, taxation beyond the borders of their states. So also here... Scandinavian progression - so you're here to ordain perhaps Greek depression and Spanish flu. There's already been a motion to dismiss. Of course, we know it won't work. However, at least any of you who will vote against this proposal cannot say in three or four years: I did not know, I was not there at the time, I did not comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u23	Thank you. I have now signed up with Mr Votava's factual remark, then Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u24	Thank you for the floor. I do not wish to stretch out this meeting, but it will not allow me to respond to my fellow Member from the budget committee of Mr Laudát. I read the comments of my colleague Kalousek here in the first technical note. If I'm not mistaken, he's your vice-chairman, TOP 09, so your colleague, my colleague. So it came out clearly from how he wanted to process, to work on spending flats. He wanted to cut them down. Reduce percentages of individual rates. And I think it's far, far worse than the ceiling of CZK 2 million. So, Mr. Colleague!
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u25	Thank you for keeping the time limit. And now, please, Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u26	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm here following a discussion that has developed between the representatives of the coalition and the representatives of part of the opposition, which is TOP 09 and ODS. We've been hearing here for a long time, not just when we're discussing this law, how everything could have been before. So I'm asking the ODS and TOP 09 colleagues, why haven't you guys done these things a long time ago? Why aren't we at that time today when everything was supposed to work out and everything could be fine, we could be fine and everything was fine? What did you do when you were here in the government? And a fellow Laudát. I am also a member of the Budget Committee. You're dealing with businessmen now. I'd split the tradesmen, I'd split them into two categories. I agree with my colleague Laudát that such a plumber has it very hard and that for him to keep accounting and all those agendas it is very complicated that he solves how to get a job, how to realize it with his own hands. But you put in the same bag the plumbers and the law firms, for which it's not so much a problem to do it, which earns enough money to enforce executions, for example, that you set them flat-rates, too. So I see a big difference, and I don't understand why you're criticizing this today. And the results of your reign, we know they're like that - we're where we are. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u27	Thank you. Now with the de facto Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u28	Thank you. I will respond to wannabe opposition too. You see, we have prepared, and it is not at all easy to prepare a single collection point. It means both factual and legislative, but in particular factual interference with the functioning of the health insurance system, financial offices, etc. Anyway, we put it together. And why is anyone interrupting? Or he's putting it in the fog, basically claiming it. I'm asking how long you want to co-light it! Let's do something for the people, too! There are still coalitions and sometimes you come here - regulation, more criminality, some of them torn off, maybe we'll have conspiracy in courtrooms and so on. I'm asking what we're gonna do. This isn't my world. My world is freedom, democracy, and I don't know what we're talking about here. And as far as pensioners are concerned, you all know what part of the gross domestic product is made up of exports, how many people it feeds, what happened to Europe, what happened in the United States, what happened in China and other countries, even those developing that had dramatic but then did not have such dramatic growths. And every group here, and we can talk about whether we did it right or wrong, she was carrying some of her expenses. And there were retired people carrying it, even politicians carrying it, even though it wasn't mentioned, there were cuts in wages, not only froze, but reduced, each group simply borne some costs. I want the elderly to be better off than they are. But I think you've all supported the flat-rate addition of pensions here, too. I designed here, and I've already been swept -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u29	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time, two minutes. And now, with Mr Fiedler in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u30	One more time. I'm not going to run a shoot-out with my colleague Laudát, but he mentioned that we should start doing something for these people. Well, I'll just remind Mr. Laudát what you did for these people. You have introduced a system of companies here that destroys them with executions that destroy them with various charges, executions, and the execution mafia has grown up here, many people have driven them to the edge, when they don't know how to go any further. So these are the things you guys did for people? We didn't do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u31	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Laudát's de facto opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u32	Thank you. I'd just finish. About the pensioners. You approved a flat-rate increase in pensions. Meanwhile, Mrs. Tominová-Marksová, the secretary, said we had 140,000 pensioners on the edge of poverty. I suggested in the Committee on Budgets whether they wanted to deal with it so that they would pull out and join the most needed, and not even those with higher pensions. So you actually added significantly less to the most useful ones. About the executors. I'm at the time when the whole model was invented here, when the repression outside the state administration was pulling out, I wasn't there, I wasn't there, I wasn't there. I believe that restrictions are to be carried out by the public sector, not by private people, in this I have a completely different view of the matter. By the time I worked here, the standards that pushed the problem were already approved, suppressed rather than escalated. So I didn't shine on this one. You have to turn to other people. And what have we done for people? They had a chance to walk - to send their taxes to one place. They had a chance to breathe as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, but they had a chance to simplify the tax system, which is a deterrent system for the whole world. I don't know what you're gonna do. And of course, this question, where did you guys go, if I live to see it, I'm gonna put it at the end of your term here, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u33	Thank you. And now, please, with Prime Minister Babiš's priority right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to respond about some of the performances of my colleagues. Mr. Fiala's performance. I just want to say that we don't want to tax pensions. We're just returning the condition as it was before. That means we're re-establishing a discount and we're returning the ceiling to which the pensioners' income was racked, that was CZK 840,000. About Mr. Kalousek. This is an incredible demagogy, because, of course, the convergence programme is talking about a situation that has not occurred or will not happen. So I would like to point out that no taxes will be raised. It is not true that individuals will pay 14 billion more and then 26 billion more. It's not true, it's a lie. No taxes will increase. Not in legal, not in natural persons. It's a virtual situation because, of course, Mr Kalousek knew there'd be another government, and that's the mine that Mr Votava spoke of. So it's nonsense, and no taxes go up. It's also about Mr. Dolejš. Yes, sector tax, we are fundamentally against it. We are fundamentally opposed because our movement has always said that first we must stop wasting and stealing upstairs, yes. And most importantly, our problem is that we don't know how to collect the taxes. You weren't able to make a system here to collect the taxes. Financial administration which has not been managed, which does not have a national competence. Employees who have ridiculous salaries that no one has driven. And it's customs anyway. [[11.40 hours]] And we're back to the tax fraud that organized groups are working on us. And that's our priority. Fight those organized groups who forget to pay VAT and who cheat on excise duties. And we've been robbed by 48.5 billion from 2009 to 2013. That is why I have proposed to Brussels that we renegotiate within the European Union and on the Commission the reverse charge carried over by the tax obligation. And mostly fuel, because that's where we lost the most money. So our strategy is clear - no taxes will increase. No one. We don't need it. Because we want to introduce a clear system, i.e. an electronic VAT statement for which our entrepreneurs can prepare and which should be effective from 2016. That's crucial. And then the Croatian model. On July 24th, the Minister from Croatia arrives with the whole team. And our citizens are now on vacation in Croatia. You can ask them. They tell me how it works. It's working great. 90 percent of the population of Croatia welcomed this. These are our two basic problems, that taxes are not collected here and some do not pay systematically taxes. So that's the problem. And I don't see why we should raise taxes at all. About businessmen. Please, we've only made cosmetic modifications. We've put all the flats on the same level for two miles. Crowns. It was consulted with Mr Havlíček, who is the head of small, medium-sized enterprises, businessmen, so I really do not see the problem. I think we're very helpful, we're discussing tripartite. Yes, it's a salami method, as someone said. We want to deal with it one at a time. But again, our problem is that we don't collect the taxes. That no one ran the financials. And about that on thing, yes, it's interesting that you didn't do it. 'Cause everybody walks around like they're hot. Yeah, well, JIM're great. I'm sure we'd like that. We would like only one controller to go to businessmen for personal taxes, social, health. And why didn't you? Because it's a political issue. Why didn't you say so, Mr. Laudát? I mean, you should have said that if it had been implemented, then--
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u35	Minister, I'm sorry. Turn to my colleagues through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u36	Sorry. Through Madam President, I am turning. [[Smile in the hall.]] So I just want to explain why nobody said that. That's the politics, that's the political stuff. Well, say it hard. It would mean releasing 3,000 civil servants. You know that. That's right. That's why you didn't do it. So it's simple. In addition, he would have to have one coalition partner of the Ministry of Finance, Health and Social Affairs at once. And you know why it wasn't. Yes, it's a great idea. Let's do it. We'll negotiate, maybe with our coalition partners. But I'm sure we'd like that, because it would definitely help those entrepreneurs. So... I guess that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u37	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone with the de facto remark of Mr Opálka. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u38	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, let me make three comments. I want to say that I applaud him for what the Deputy Prime Minister said. It's a nice plan. I am also convinced that we could manage a balanced budget, and it would be good if this thing succeeded through the proper functioning of the state. So on this question, I agree. I don't agree with what taxes and levies should be, because something else is absolute justice, which is unattainable, everyone sees it differently because there is also an individual vision of justice and also some kind of social justice. And here I think that our republic, compared to the developed world, is somewhere else and should come closer. And the third point I have is a problem. Although we will achieve all this, as has been said, a balanced budget, we are pulling 70 to 80 billion a year. debt services and we don't pay off the principal. That's the huge debt in the public budgets we have. How are we going to pay for this if we just have a balanced budget? So here I think we're gonna have to do something about the taxes after all. And it's a shame we're not paying back today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u39	I thank you for keeping the time limit and now with the de facto Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u40	Thank you, Madam President. About the debt, please. We're planning a deficit in 2014. I think we're probably gonna get below 100 billion. or about 100 billion, considerably less than approved by law. And it should be the same next year 2015. That means that together it's 200 billion. And our debt by the end of 2013 was 1,683 billion. And the exact same debt will be at the end of 2015. And here's how everyone laughed at me, like I said the money was there and it wasn't invested, that is. I'm sure we'll have 200 billion. the deficit, but at the same time our debt will not change because we will make better use of liquidity. And if we had a functioning treasury that they put 4.7 billion in. And it's not working, so it would be even better. And absolutely, absolutely our debt will be reduced from 43.3% to 40.3% of GDP by the end of 2013 to 3.3% by the end of 2015, so 3 percent less by the end of 2015. And if Mr Laudát here is talking about France's favorite, they are at 2,000 billion, there is close to 100 percent of GDP. So we're totally gonna cut the debt. And that's not the electronic statement and Croatia in those measures. So I don't know, I didn't have the opportunity to take part in the negotiations between the coalition and the TOP 09 on the structural deficit today, but I think it's a real goal for us to get somewhere at 1%, although I don't know how the negotiations turned out. But that's my personal opinion that we could get to where the TOP 09 basically says yes. So it's positive. And I don't think we've ever done that in terms of tax collection, in terms of customs management and the tax office. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u41	Thank you. Now, I beg you, Mr Opálka, in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr Vice-President, let us understand each other well. I am glad that we are going in a positive direction, that debt is decreasing, that debt is not growing as much as it has grown in the past, that the ratio to GDP is different. But someone's gonna have to pay for that past debt. Or the state will pay him every year in that debt service, the 70-80 billion. So do we want to leave this burden here for future generations, or do we want to deal with it as well? I understand that banks are in love with each other. They have debt to the state, no one moves away, they have some property and they are sure to receive 80 billion from the Czech Republic each year. Crowns. But my point is to start reducing the principal, not only showing that our debt is falling to GDP, and that we are no longer growing the state budget deficit as much as it has grown in the past. Well, that's just to be clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u43	Thank you. And now I have two facts - Mr Fiedler and Mr Laudát. So please get to Mr. Fiedler's mike. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u44	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad these words are here. It's definitely our Dawn movement's program, too, to reduce the deficit. We're against permanent debt. I'm sure there's a match on this one. But I am aware that income, income taxes, is linked to the state budget. But after all, I believe that this debate, which has developed here, is a bit more slippery in the debate about the state budget than about the original subject, which is an amendment to the Income Tax Act. So I would like to call on my colleagues to return to the original topic, to keep these discussions, certainly very reasonable and fruitful, after the summer months when we will discuss the state budget in detail here in this House. So let's get back to the original subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u45	I am now asking for Mr Laudát's factual comment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u46	Thank you. I welcome the fact that the Minister of Finance, that he likes JIM, and I hope that this will be one of the priorities for him, that is to finally do something to make people's lives easier and more comfortable. Unfortunately, from the Prime Minister on Sunday, it was made clear that this was not a priority for him during this parliamentary term. I understand that the Minister of Finance is in fact in charge, so I very much welcome it and you will have our great support. And we're really gonna do everything we can to get it through here, that it's really gonna start being applied, but it's already been approved, and it could start paying, or it could sort things out. You'll have our support. As far as corporate tax is concerned, as has been said here, we are not in favour of implementation. Is that what you really want, the ones who want to put it in place so that the last companies who want to tax here leave us? To start taxing somewhere else? For God's sake, we live in a single European space, so you can tax yourself. We have dozens, maybe hundreds of agreements to prevent double taxation. On the contrary, we have to make this country attractive to come here. The same if the burden on investment funds is reduced, i.e. What we've been saying here is why we've pushed regulated funds through here. The only social democracy across the spectrum was the only one who voted against this law, even though its implementation has already been ordered by the European Union. So we'll support it, too. And I welcome that, because there's just tax competition and without us reaching out to them here, the investors and the investments aren't coming. So there are a number of things that, oddly enough, we agree with the Minister, and he will have our support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u47	Thank you. Now with Mr Fiedler in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u48	Thank you. Very briefly indeed. I'll try again. Let's get back to the original subject. Debt funds, corporate taxes, investments, through Madam President, Mr Laudet, this is not the Income Tax Act. Please, once again, let's get back to the original subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u49	Thank you. Now, please, to the speaker's counter, Mr Beznoska, who is enrolled in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u50	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues who wait will see that coming. I would ask my colleagues with the factual ones, if you have about ten factual ones, so maybe it's fairer to write on the board once, and what you have to say about it, because everything has been said many times. I'll take a hop. The bill is divided into 19 parts in total, with the first part of it being borne, of course, devoted to changes in the scope of the Income Tax Act. I like a lot of things there, I can relate to a whole lot of things, of course there are things that I do not agree with and do not agree with, even the Civil Democratic Party. I'm just gonna factor out the four fundamentals of this debate, what the debate was about, to say my point of view, or the ODS's opinion. The first was an increase in the discount on the second and the other child, it is a tax advantage, on the second child by CZK 200 and on the third and every other child by CZK 300 a month. With progress in 2016-2017, I think it is good that it is a good thing that this is a really pro-family policy, as Prime Minister Votava also talked about in the end, Minister Babiš, and the ODS does not have a problem with this because it has always defended a pro-family policy. At this point, we would definitely support the material. For your information, families with children in our country pay the lowest - the lowest net income tax after taking into account, of course, the provision of benefits in the European Union. Which is fine. Tax reform with tax bonuses and discounts was extremely advantageous for these families, especially for low-income families, and their revenues were subject to low-to-zero taxes after deduction of all tax discounts. As far as the discount for working pensioners is concerned, we also welcome it. Of course, we're going back to the original state, and Minister Babiš said it very accurately here. The ODS agrees to return the tax relief. The only problem is that you're blaming us for introducing it, but that's the whole debate, in what state and in what time the three-year withdrawal of the advantage took place. It was at a time of economic crisis, and, of course, pension spending is the most important item in the expenditure side of the state budget. They were looking for savings everywhere. I think it was logical back then, and that's when we announced that it was only for three years. Now it's getting shorter a year and we don't have a problem with it, it's fine. As far as the old-age tax here is concerned, high-income pensioners over 840 thousand. It's a shame that we didn't hold them there, that we shouldn't tax them separately, they're just experienced people who are active, have something to hand over, have experience to pass on, and I'd love it if we didn't bother them. It's a shame that the ceiling, in this case, will somehow be unpreserved. The third thing that is unacceptable to us is the restriction on setting up spending flats for self-employed people. On the contrary, we would like to allow those who are currently in that group for thirty- to forty-percent flats to apply a flat rate of CZK 2 million if they exceed the limit above any amount or the set value of CZK 2 million. It would be so smooth, and I don't think that if someone exceeds $2 million by one thousand and so on, they shouldn't be left out of this. In the end, it can lead to some tax evasion and so on. So in this view, I don't think that's a very good position. Of course, I have seen and I have a graph of how we gradually decrease the yield of these taxes, but it's okay because businessmen are a very important and respected group of people who don't have a certain amount of income, they don't have the right to work aids, vacations and other advantages, what ordinary benefits ordinary employees have, here in this respect, we would not want to punish them in any way. The fourth, very often discussed matter, was the famous JIM. I think it's a good thing that it's a shame that it's postponed its introduction, because, and I understand the arguments that are here, but I would be very much in favour of him acting because one thing hasn't been mentioned here, so I'm just going to remind her. In all these arguments that the postponement of a single collection point means maintaining a substantially higher rate of taxation. So it's disadvantageous for the citizens. And so now I will leave out the part, and Mr Dolejš was the only one who got it here, because these other parts are very important, such as the regulation of taxation of investment funds, the adjustment in free income, changes in tax rules, etc. I'm sure there'll be a lot of talk about that on the budget committee, so I'd just put or put two or three general views in the diaper. Because tax policy for any government always at the beginning of the parliamentary term, changes in the tax system, should be a flagship, the fundamental thing it wants to influence economic policy. And unlike Mr. President and colleague Vašek Votava, I don't think this means any change in the system. We are making adjustments, which are individual things, but I still haven't heard a clear coalition opinion about how the coalition feels, how the Czech tax system should look, the Czech tax code and how it should evolve in those years by 2017. I think that the tax system is, of course, always assessed according to the rate of overall taxation of tax collection costs, or its structure, on which taxes we will place emphasis, and here on these issues, let's say, the general nature of the Czech tax system I have not yet taken a clear view of at least me. [[12.00 hours]] So I have these short two three views and questions. I would like to see, or if the Minister says whether the current overall tax burden in the Czech Republic, measured by the tax quota, is optimal for the government and how he wants to work with it in the next three years. This means whether he wants to reduce it or raise it. Of course, I think so, and so we all observe that the economy is beginning to grow and we are not under the pressure of a global crisis, so there would be quite a significant way of gradually reducing the tax burden. That's the first question. And then I ask - and this is the thing that comes next, because according to the study I found from the World Bank, the Czech Republic is about 117th from 183 countries evaluated in the complexity of the tax system. More like a sigh: Why are we going to burden this system so complicated and make it worse at the third rate of value added tax? And the last thing that's philosophically debatable is that the tax system, and this amendment doesn't solve it at all - the ODS will always keep it, and that will be true throughout the period, that it will reject any efforts leading to greater progress in the tax system. These are the kind of things that we're going to define in principle. Otherwise, I don't think the debate, and in the second round, if it passes because there's a motion for rejection, we're not going to file it, but, of course, if it goes through to second reading, I'm going to read some amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u51	I thank Mr Beznosk for his contribution. This is the rapporteur and the Minister of Finance. I'll make an apology from today's meeting. For health reasons, Mr. Stanislav Huml, Minister of the Interior of Chovanec from 11am to 13pm. Furthermore, for working reasons from 12 o'clock to the end of today's meeting day, Mr Bezecný. And a colleague of Beznoska, who has just spoken since 4:30, if I understand correctly. That's an apology. Now the rapporteur has declared himself in the debate, still, and then the Minister of Finance. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u52	Thank you. We have been discussing this for quite a long time, and it has also been used to optimise the time limit for discussion. I would withdraw my original opinion on those 30 days and, in particular, because of the inquiry into the time of Members of the Committee on Budgets, I would propose 50 days. So I'm asking you... [[Members on the left heard fifty-two.]] Excuse me? Fifty-two? 50, I say 50, sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u53	Ten days short. I understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u54	So I'm asking you to shorten the time limit for the hearing to 50 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u55	Okay, thank you. Minister of Finance in the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond, through the President, to Mr Beznosk's objectives. So these are my internal fantasies. Certainly the introduction of a third VAT rate of 10 per cent is the result of coalition negotiations. Of course, we don't like it very much. However, the Croatian model was introduced in Croatia in a way that motivated entrepreneurs to reduce VAT. And if the budget and overall development are positive, then my reasoning is that we can analyze the second rate if we can't get back to 10 percent, and we would only have two rates again. So that's the tax considerations. With regard to the single collection point, I think it's definitely an important project, which, as I mentioned earlier, has always been a problem within the coalition, because the ministry belonged differently. However, I want to open it within the coalition and discuss it. And then, for the last time, it's a matter of working with us, which is high, and that's what we've initiated a committee to do, and we want to deal with it and analyze it and, if necessary, make a proposal to deal with it, because I see it as a handicap.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u57	I thank the Minister and these were the last applications for the debate. I'm asking if anyone's still checking in from the scene. Yes, colleague Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u58	Thank you. Once again, I'm going to turn to Mr. Vice President. I don't know if I understood right now. The price of work in the Czech Republic is high? Compared to what? I know it's a high burden on the social and health system dues, but in sum, because it comes from a low base, so the sum, including the various benefits, we're under half of the developed countries. Well, that's bullshit, with forgiveness, and I'm sorry about the word, Mr. Vice President, so let's not fool the public. The cost of work in the Czech Republic is one of the lowest in the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u59	Thank you. Who's next for the debate? I don't see anybody, debate... Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u60	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'm based on what I hear. And if the employer immediately pays 34% and the employee is still paying for it, then we're somewhere at 49 percent and, in our opinion or in my opinion, it's high. Plus, of course, we're analyzing the cost of work between the self-employed and the employee. That's also the subject of the committee's investigation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-07-17-ps2013-012-03-002-008.u61	Thank you. Now I don't really see anybody in the debate, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. It's not like that. Minister - is he interested in the final word? It's not like that. There was a motion for rejection in the debate, Mr rapporteur, yes? A colleague of Kalousek. We have to vote first. And in that respect, I'm going to sign you off first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm gonna try to call in any potential candidates for a round-up vote. Once the number of Members present has settled, the motion for rejection will be decided in the vote by order number 18 which I have begun. I ask who is in favour of rejecting this bill. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 18, 147 for 29 against 115. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the motion for a commandment. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will proceed to vote number 19 and ask who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 19, from 148 for 148, against no one. The motion was accepted. So now, in the debate, a proposal has been made to shorten the deadline by 10 days to 50 days for discussion, so that we can have the September meeting. We will decide in the vote the order number 20 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of shortening the deadline to 50 days. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 20. Of the 147 present for 146, against no one. This logical proposal has also been adopted. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 8. I note that the bill has been ordered to the Committee on Budget and the deadline has been reduced to 50 days. Before we begin the next item, Mr Petr Kudela apologizes from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, from 12 a.m. to the end of the day due to a visit to events in the Karlovy Vary Region. [[12.10 hours]] We've got a point number in front of us.
