ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u1	3. Law on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws /German press 82/7/ - returned by the President of the Republic There. I see you, Mr. Chairman. I am merely saying that we have also interrupted item number 3 in the debate that we held on the draft law returned by the President of the Republic, with Mr Holeček and Mr Chalánková speaking already, we are left with Mr Černoch and Member Radka Maxová. Previously, before Mr Černoch, the chairman of the TOP 09 club Miroslav Kalousek reports with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already taken the liberty of speaking with an appeal to you twice so that we do not hand over the product that we all believe is not good. So we don't hand him over like we're done with the promise that we'll fix him later. It is simply an approach that is completely incomprehensible to the public, which we answer to, and I stress that I still have not received an answer in the debate on why. For some types of laws, I could imagine that there really is a time pressure to justify it. It just doesn't exist here. I will now take the liberty in my third, and I promise that the last appeal to you who have said and often still like to say that you are not politicians. That you came here to do it differently. And I want to turn to the honor of your employment, which you did before you became those professional politicians, and I believe that with the honor of this job you have come here to do professional politics. I just don't believe that doktor Plzák is willing to leave the operating table with the fact that the operation failed twice, but that's okay, now we're gonna sew him up, and we're gonna reschedule in two weeks. I can't imagine Mr. Volný leaving his turkey before he really beat her. That he wouldn't let her run around the lobby half-cut... and he'd say, "It's Friday afternoon, it's gonna last, I'm not gonna finish her till Monday." [[applause and laughter all over the room]] I cannot imagine that Mr Vozdecký, formerly an extremely successful director of Bohemia Brut, would have allowed a single bottle of sect to be removed, which he would have believed to be of poor quality inside. He'd rather break it. I can't imagine Mrs Lorencová handing over an article that she believes is badly written. She'd rather rewrite it five times than turn it in. Each of us did some work before we became professional politicians. And if we were just a little bit normal and we were looking for self-realization in our work, we wanted each and every one of us to give the craftsmanship as good as possible. None of us dared hand in a piece of shit saying, well, there's nothing we can do, so now I'm gonna hand in a piece of shit, and I promise I'll fix it later. We've all been acting like this, you've all been acting like this in your work, so why the hell do you think now that it's your professional job that you're not supposed to act like that? [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Professional politics is as honest a craft as any other. And the product we're presenting to the public is the quality of the law we're voting for. This is the quality of the law that we are voting for and which we guarantee to the public... I don't know why you're all yelling, I mean, you can't really cry it out. And the product behind which our work, for which we are paid, is the quality of the law that we approve, which we guarantee to the public, that we voted for it in accordance with our best knowledge and conscience, and which will be published in the Collection of Laws and become a valid part of the rule of law. We sometimes wonder why the craft of professional politics may be lower - the prestige of professional politics may be lower than the prestige of cleaning women. But it's our own way of doing it. Because even the cleaning lady won't leave that hallway before she feels like she's completely cleaned up. She doesn't turn around in the hallway, and she doesn't say, there's a lot of shit in here, but that's okay, it's off, I'll clean it up in two days. She's not leaving until she's got shit in that hallway, while you guys are ready to approve as professional politicians, approve the shit and say, "We'll fix it later." [[13.50 hours]] Then you can't be surprised that the public can't see our work as prestigious. And I appeal to you, who were proud of your work outside politics, and you can't imagine acting like this in this job to treat the product that we're about to put into legal order. If you believe that this is wrong and that it needs to be corrected, you do not have the right to vote for it, provided that you did not do so in your previous jobs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u3	Thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. And I'm going to finish him, too, because I have this point that's being interrupted to prioritize before the agreement to close at 14 o'clock, so I'm going to continue this debate because it was two agreements. That was the agreement on what will be completed at least today, and that was the point that we placed firmly at 11 o'clock, and then only when it will be finished. So that's my approach to the challenge. Mr Plzák's factual remark will outrun the proper application of Mr Černoch. He's been through this before, he's been through the interruption. I ask my colleague Plzák to make his point of order. I'm taking his time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need a little time. I signed up for a word because I was approached. Believe me, through Mr President, I have a big internal problem with this and I have thought about what to compare it to, and then I thought that you would understand me, because you had to suffer the same way when you, in 2002, maybe voted in favour of the amendment law, which was accompanied by the then State Administration Act, which actually said that the Minister may not have had a demonstration certificate. So you'll understand. And I'm just gonna have to vote for it, even though I have an internal problem with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u5	I thank my colleague Plzák for his time. Mr Marek Černoch has the floor, Mrs Radka Maxová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u6	Thank you. It's nice to get a word in. I fully agree that the safety and protection of children is the most important thing, and the rules that lead to a stable system and to the stabilisation of the system are certainly important, but as has already been said here several times, I do not understand why a law is being passed, which is being debated here all day, that is wrong. Why is all this going on? What does it mean to keep your eyes closed? Because at that point, first of all, they say, and it's a shame that we know that a bad law is being passed and that it will work in some way. Secondly, what does that mean for those groups that are going to be touched? The moment they wait to see how the one who controls them sleeps, whether the check ends well or if it ends badly. Next - is there any form of possible corruption? So why don't we just figure it out by putting the law back in place and having the parameters that it's supposed to have? As my colleague Jandák said here in the first draft of the Service Act in the summer: "You do not want this in opposition, we do not want it in the coalition, and we hope that you will do everything in your power not to accept it." So why is it, even if it's a completely different case, why is it being handled in this way? As has also been said several times, whether it burns or if it is tied to some 300 billion. from the European Union, if this is not accepted by the end of the year, why doesn't the law just be redesigned to make it work? These are subjects who want to work in the education of children who have a specific approach, whether it be access to nature, whether they are firemen, etc., the rules must, of course, have rules, but it should not have rules of liquidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u7	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Now, with Mrs Miroslava Němcová's factual remark, then Mrs Maxová's last report. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say, through Mr President Mr Plzák, that he goes against precisely the constitutional promise he has made here and which entitles him to use the mandate of the Member. The constitutional promise is that you will always vote according to your best knowledge and conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u9	Thank you. Now, Mrs Radka Maxová, the last one entered in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u10	Good Friday afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I see that this topic here in quotation marks has been storming for quite a long, six months. I would just like to say that I am very sorry that the discussion on the quality of childcare in the Czech Republic has been narrowed down to a discussion on the corresponding number of toilets and other attributes of quality care for the smallest children, such as the qualification of staff, the concept of care, and also, for example, the requirements for insurance of operators' activities or their obligation to conclude contracts with parents, in order to undoubtedly address the terms of the contractual relationship, the content of the component, including the amount of remuneration paid by parents for the activity and which should be provided to non-profit organisations, and thus not in prices in similar facilities provided under the Trade Business Act. The law therefore places great emphasis on quality standards that I mentioned earlier. Clearly, however, this issue remains heated. The strong and radical criticism of the law by non-profit organizations raises the question of what conditions and under which the day-to-day care for the smallest children in the Czech Republic is now provided, rather, that the form of the law was known for a long time to representatives of nonprofit organizations. I consider it necessary to recall that it was first discussed in the Czech Republic whether children outside the family could be cared for by someone other than the mother, so that it would not harm the child's mental and physical health. Subsequently, it was difficult to find a consensus on how the conditions for child care, according to the number of children, qualifications, etc. should be set at all. In the Chamber of Deputies, it was originally quite seriously argued that too low standards for children's groups would eliminate kindergarten schools and threaten the level of education of preschool children in the Czech Republic. Now, according to non-profit organizations, we're talking about a 35,000 threat. Up to 50 thousand. children for whom we want to guarantee some standards of care at all. I would just like to conclude by saying - the debate on the bill on the children's group cannot be seen as a debate on whether a family or maternity centre or a quasi-school should meet the requirements of the bill, but as a debate on whether care for children should be specifically adapted at all. And surprisingly, as so far in the Czech Republic, the same type of care is set up and required under the trade law in terms of specific hygiene regulations and requirements for the qualification of child care personnel. Dear legislators, I would like to ask you, as the mother of two children, to approve the law, or to revote the President's veto on the children's group, for many reasons that I have already announced, especially because care for children is not legally enshrined in our country at least from zero to three years of age. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u11	Thank you, Mrs Maxová. I have no further application for a debate. Mrs Langšádlová. Calm down, please! Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u12	Another lovely afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, I really do not think and do not share the view that everything is to be regulated, everything is to be legally enshrined because there are parents here. They don't belong to the state. And I, as I see these devices, see how parents critically view them, how they choose, how they influence the course of today and kindergarten, so believe me, these parents can choose the equipment that is the most suitable for their children. And I have to admit, I'm sure you've also come across it here that how this child group law, for example, managed to re-establish completely strict hygiene conditions, so groups over 12 children have de facto the same conditions as kindergarten schools, that's totally unacceptable. And it is not a question that the European Union, for example, would set out to us, as representatives of the Chief Hygiene tried to tell us in the negotiations, but it is our conditions that we set ourselves and which are disproportionately strict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u13	Thank you, colleague Langšádlová. Now, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. I'm saying they're just applications coming from the scene.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to remind you that the press has been ordered by the Organising Committee on 21 January. The first reading was in March, and as you have noticed from the speeches of our Members in today's debate, our club does not have a single opinion on how to proceed at this time, and we need to be consulted. The government coalition, in principle, also from the way it performed, and from the way they are present, is on the brink, so on behalf of our club, I ask for a two-hour break at the ODS club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u15	President Sklenák, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u16	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, you know that I have always defended the rights of the opposition from this place. If we were talking here about shortening the time limits for contributions, shortening breaks, etc., I always said: let's try to stick to the customs, it makes sense. However, what is happening in this parliamentary term with the abuse of the Institute of Breaks and Obstacles is, in my opinion, no longer viable. It is not possible for 200 Members to simply refer to whether President Stanjura or President Kalousek decide to block the meeting. You know, it's been briefed for a long time, and we've had it fixed in the program today. Voting on the President's veto on this law. At this point, the debate is over, and we have a final, final vote ahead of us. All Members' clubs have dealt with this issue several times. Today, too, there was a break in the MP's club on this subject, and I don't think it's possible to break up at this point because the ODS club wants a break in. I ask that we complete this item in order to take the final vote and, if necessary, to vote on the next procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u17	Thank you. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u18	Mr President Sklenák through Mr President, we have all noticed that the ODS MP is not united. We all understand that at a moment of such serious matters to the MP's club, when it is not united, it is necessary to give him time for discussion and a break. I'm going back. We could have voted on this thing a week ago. They were members of the government coalition, especially President Mihola, who asked us all here for a week - not two hours, a week's break. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] The Chamber of Deputies complied with the wishes of the President of the KDU-ČSL and translated the vote by the week. And you, through Mr President, have the audacity that you do not want to allow the ODS MP for even two hours when you have taken a week of your own? Mr. Sklenák, you have the majority to vote on a product that you call an asshole. You may also have a majority not to allow yourself to take a break and vote. In such a case, the TOP 09 will leave the Chamber of Deputies, and I guarantee you - just this vote, do not look forward to it. [[Let's hear it.]] I guarantee you, if you dare, both our congressional clubs will raise such a protest against your arrogance of power that you will not discuss anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u19	Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, I will give another word to the President of the ODS, who is reporting, because I must do so, although there is no debate on procedural proposals, just as a break is given. But since people with priority rights apply, I will do so, and then I will conclude before the whole House. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u20	President Sklenák is wrong, as he often does, unfortunately. The debate has not been closed, as it says. We are not at the end of the debate. So far we are in the debate, President Glass through. We really can't help the tragic course of meetings. Every day you or your colleagues change the program. We agreed on a grémium before the opening of the meeting for the leadership of President Hamáček that the presidential veto would be the first Friday at 11 o'clock. Deal? You didn't? We made a deal. What happened? You wanted a week. We've complied. If it's so important, why didn't you start today? Why wasn't it the first point? Why did the ministers speak to a point that was not included? And then you complain. You can vote there won't be a break. You can vote on it. We can't defend ourselves because you just have most of it. You can vote that today is not December 31st, but that we are going back to 24th and everything goes according to plans. You can vote for that, too. But try to examine your conscience for yourself and see what happens every morning. Every day, every meeting, constantly changing the program. How is that not true? It's true. If President Sklenák wants to say it, let him say it's not true, let it be on the log, and I'll read it to you on Wednesday morning, I have a priority right, and it'll take about four hours, all morning, all the proposed changes made by the government coalition at this meeting. Nothing more, nothing less. Yes, I know, you just brought in the Prime Minister, so now you're 101. If by any chance we don't debate and we have to vote 13.50, you're performing and waiting for the Prime Minister to arrive, so you can have the 101st vote. I understand all that. I clearly announced our performance. You don't want our votes to this law. When we wanted to consult. All right, you don't, that can happen. You needed them on missions, didn't you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u21	He is now reporting for the floor - I have the Prime Minister's report that he applied before the President of the KSČM Club. Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club. The Prime Minister wants to finish. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, to make it completely clean, as they say, completely objective, I have a feeling of such déjà vu. In the past parliamentary periods, it was also, except with a reverse sign. I remember the long obstruction from the right, I remember the situation that was there during the discussion. Church restitutions, so I'd be a little cautious in these harsh courts, whether by the right-wing opposition to the government, but also the other way around. You did it, too, the same thing that's happening now. I admit it's really extreme with the changes to the program now, but we've experienced them here, too. I want to say that for us there is not only order, not only a rule, but also an unwritten rule on breaks for the Holy House of Deputies, so we, despite the fact that we are otherwise against the right, so that very significantly, will support the right to break the ODS club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u23	Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u24	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I came in this morning at nine o'clock this morning when the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies began, I registered as a Member, and I expected to see how the morning debate on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting will end, because I came up with the information that the first item will be on the issue of general health insurance and the second item will be included and the second item will be included on the vote on the veto of the President of the Republic. When I came here at nine o'clock this morning, there was a rather extensive discussion, there were proposals for changing the program and then representatives of the Úsvit Club, which is not part of the government coalition, and they opened up a topic that concerns the situation in the Zlín Region, and around that there was an hour discussion. That, in my opinion, is an objective and true description of the situation that took place here this morning. [[14.10 hours]] I certainly disagree with what Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS, said here that perhaps the government coalition was destroying the Chamber of Deputies today. Nothing like that is true. The opposition club has set up a topic here, and people who have priority rights here have discussed this outside the proper agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting. So it is certainly not the government coalition's fault that the order was not respected, and the agreement that was made between the MPs, and the thing that was expected last week, that the item was transferred to today's meeting, and the Members and Members were quite rightly able to count on it, as I was counting on it, that after 9:00 a.m., we would get to that point and vote on it. At the moment when it became clear that nothing like this was true, that the agenda of the meeting was broken again, and this was due to the initiative not to the government, but to the opposition, so I devoted myself to a foreign visit, which I have here in the Czech Republic, because the Prime Minister of Serbia came to visit the Czech Republic and, of course, it would be very rude if I had kept the Prime Minister of Serbia waiting and not attended the official meeting. I have now taken part in an official lunch with the Prime Minister of Serbia, asked him to shorten this lunch, I am very pleased that he has done so, and I have come to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies because I have been informed that before the second hour there will be a vote on the veto of the President of the Republic on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Clubs. Now I've come to the Chamber of Deputies and I'm not surprised at the circus that some opposition leaders are doing here. I don't think it's really possible to act rationally in this way. Please let us vote on the law that was to be voted on this morning, unfortunately this has not happened, so let us vote on it now. I think that the Members and Members have expected to vote today, to attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And if you want to hold a meeting of the MP's club, you have all this afternoon and all evening to get your MP's club together and deal with your serious internal affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. And since this is a nice opinion and I have other applications with priority rights here, I will not use them and I will ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies to call a political grémium at this time, that is, the Vice-President and the President of the Clubs of Parliament, and by leaving this counter, I will stop running the meeting, interrupting the meeting until the President of the Chamber of Deputies returns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u26	I'm here, but given that the meeting has been interrupted by the head of the House for the purpose of consulting the House's leadership, I'm asking that the grémium be gathered in my office. [[Weak applause]] I won't allow any more performances until.... [[Member Kalousek wishes to object to the procedure]] Against my progress? Are you objecting to me calling for the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies? [[Member Kalousek repeatedly wants to raise objections, noise and restlessness in the courtroom in front of the speaker's counter.]] All right, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u27	I would like, Mr President, to object to the President's procedure because the President said that he was interrupting the meeting until the President of the Chamber of Deputies returns. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has taken his chair, the meeting continues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u28	So I understood what Vice-President Filip said: until the return of the President of the House from the meeting I will convene. Otherwise, it wouldn't be logical. So now I'm going to interrupt the meeting until the end of the political grémia meeting. I ask if President Kalousek insists on his objection. It doesn't. Thank you. I am interrupting the meeting and, please, the House and the President of the House of Deputies to come to my office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-10-31-ps2013-019-07-007-003.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to pay my attention, because the House leadership meeting and the management of the various parliamentary clubs have ended. The conclusion is as follows: since there have been no more applications for the debate, I am ending the debate and, at the same time, interrupting the meeting until Tuesday, 13:30. Thank you and have a nice weekend.
