ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u1	78. Government report on options and procedures to address the critical unemployment situation in the Czech Republic I ask an authorized member of the government to take the floor now. And it will be the Prime Minister himself. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have not entrusted anyone, but I have taken up this task myself. Let me say, then, that attendance at this hour at the Chamber of Deputies meeting is not entirely in line with the urgency of the problem that we will be dealing with here at the request of the Chamber of Deputies. It was stressed here when the Chamber of Deputies voted on the inclusion of this point that it is absolutely necessary for us to have this debate very quickly on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. The government is ready for this, I am ready to inform you in a little while in the spirit of the request that has been made. However, I am quite sorry that participation in the ranks of our benches is therefore rather modest. First of all, honourable Members, I would like to say that the government considers the unemployment situation to be alarming. There is no way that we want to be calmed down by comparisons within the European Union, which says that the Czech Republic is, in the long run, more one of the countries with below-average unemployment. We think unemployment is a serious social problem and that one of the tasks of every good government is actively combating unemployment. The situation in which we find ourselves - and statistics have been published in recent days - has not fallen from the clear sky in our country's employment records of more than 600,000 people without work. The government is convinced that the current high unemployment is the result of the concrete actions that have been taken in our country in recent years. In my opinion, there are two main reasons. Firstly, government economic policy has ceased to be aimed at promoting employment in recent years. By the government of Mirek Topolánek and later the government of Petr Nečas focused only on one economic objective, the effort to reduce the deficit of the annual state budget, completely abandoned the pursuit of another objective, which is important in the economic policy of all advanced states, and thus the employment issue, through the promotion of economic growth. The government decided to reduce the government's budget deficit literally at any cost, using tax instruments to do so, that is to say, it directed and increased the tax burden, in particular the value added tax increased dramatically, and at the same time the government made general cuts in public expenditure. The problem is that these cuts were indeed flat and affected the areas of public expenditure, which traditionally contribute to promoting employment and economic growth. I want to remind you that investment money has been cut, I want to remind you that wage money has been cut, I want to remind you that some concrete steps in government policy, for example. in the operation of the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, led to the State's failure to be able to invest from public sources. The mistakes made in managing expenditure from the operational funds of the European Union have made the Czech Republic's ability to use this money worse in terms of promoting economic growth. Thus, the initial cause of the current unemployment situation is the poor orientation of the country's economic policy in recent years to only one parameter - cuts in public budgets. The second reason - and this is also the reason why the state does not have the necessary tools to combat unemployment right now - is the chaotic reforms that have destructed the employment services system in the Czech Republic. Since the 1990s, we have had a relatively modern system of employment services in our country, we had a built-up system of labour offices that was subject to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and within this system of labour offices the government was able to respond to economic development, that is, to the economic cycle, and was able to implement the instruments so called. active employment policies. What happened especially after 2010 during the reign of the government of Petr Nečas, when Mr Drábek was Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the TOP 09, brought a whole series of so-called. reforms which, however, have completely destroyed the capacity of the labour authorities to implement any active employment policy. The problem with these reforms is that, firstly, they have not been thought through, secondly, they have not been tried, thirdly, they have been implemented by people who have very often seen the instrument in them after their personal enrichment. Fourthly, they were not subject to and were not part of any broader social consensus, on the contrary, they became the subject of a sharp struggle, not only between the government and the opposition here in the House, but also between the social groups and the government, because the government, by destructing active employment policy, naturally also attacked those groups of people who are really threatened by unemployment or are afraid of unemployment. These two factors have put the Czech Republic in the situation in which we find ourselves. And that's impossible to rethink. It is not only possible to talk now about what the new government wants to do - and I will certainly get to it soon - which is here for two weeks, to deal with the current high unemployment, but we also need to look at what has brought us into this state, especially in order to avoid repeating old mistakes both in the area of rapid unthinkable reforms, but above all in the area of the state's budgetary policy, which should not go through such developments in the future, which will lead us back into the economic recession. And the previous economic policy was so wrong that our country was staggering in economic recession for 18 months. In my opinion, unnecessary and in my opinion unnecessary long, because if we look at the surrounding countries, none of these countries have gone through such a long economic recession in the past period as the Czech Republic. Slovakia grew, Poland grew, Austria and Germany recorded in recent years, albeit moderate but economic growth. The only country in this region where the economy was declining, 18 months in a row, was our Czech Republic. These are the sources of current high unemployment. What took place at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to combat these trends? Mr. Drábek has come up with a series of reforms. What were they? He centralized the labor authorities. We had a system of 77 separate employment offices here, and regardless of the clients of the authorities and the services that people expect from the office, reform has been carried out. [[14.40 hours]] She didn't have any analysis, no evaluation, no consideration of different models, just was drawn model one and without any discussion was very quickly realized. That means the labor authorities have centralized themselves. The result of this in the field of active employment policy, you all know that. You've all been confronted with this in your regions, in your constituency. Competences moved from district towns to regional cities, or even moved from district towns to Prague. This means that a number of projects that in the past could have been agreed and implemented at the level of individual districts with the management of the relevant employment offices, with minimal demands for bureaucracy and with minimal demands for time lag, have suddenly been approved in regional cities or even in central projects in Prague. Thus, contact between municipalities and labour authorities has been lost, contact between local employers and labour authorities has simply been lost because the reform has been carried out regardless of the needs of active employment policy. Two. Mr. Šiška began office at the offices and in the entire ministry. Minister Drábek brought Mr. Šiška, making him his key deputy and Mr. Šiška began to reorganize information systems. We all know how this story goes. Today, Mr Šiška is being prosecuted for his activities at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. What happened? The Labour Office has no control over the agenda information systems or systems supporting normal operation today because the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been Drábek as the administrator of the single information system. New information systems have been deployed at the Labour Offices, but they have been dysfunctional, unreliable, requiring a laborious service. Employees served and guarded the information system, although it should actually be the other way around, that is, people served this, and served on Sundays, served in the evening to keep the information system running, instead of supporting the information system for their work. It was all messed up, it was amateurish, and it was probably corrupt, too. I'm not the one who's gonna say that right now, and that's got to be confirmed by the police investigation, and it has to be confirmed by the court's decision. But the suspicion is floating in the air here, and I hope one day it will be clear what happened at the Ministry of Labour at the time of Mr. Drábek's office and Mr. Šiška's office. Problems with information systems escalated at the beginning of last year. Thanks to the immeasurable efforts of the labour authorities, the situation has been resolved. The crisis came back at the beginning of this year. Again the same situation, it means overtime, problems with it, keeping information systems running. This was the second thing that undermined the skills of the labour authorities - first, the centralization, second, the uncontrolled transition to new information systems. The third thing under which Minister Drábek signed on to the functioning of the labour offices was the failure to manage the transfer of agendas relating to material emergency from municipalities to labour offices. This was done in a way where the employment authorities were sub-dimensionalized, new agendas were transferred to them, a sufficient number of workers did not come up with them, because it was used to save the number of people employed at the employment offices, but combined with the fact that, at the same time as the transfer of these agendas, information systems collapsed, so the authorities could not devote themselves to absolutely the agenda qualitatively at the same level as the municipalities did. Among other things, there were the consequences we were talking about this morning. This means the development of that wild business e.g. in the field of social benefits for various business projects, hostels, etc. It just started when the labor authorities stopped working and when the municipal agendas were transferred to the labour authorities - and the disaster was done. In addition, the under-dimension of the number of workers at the employment offices was not provided for them - nor were there sufficient funds from the state budget for workers who had been transferred from the municipalities, so wages covered from operating expenses according to what was left of the operating expenditure in that year. These were organizational chaotic changes that accompanied the functioning of the labour offices. I would say that perhaps even worse were some proposals for reforms that were supposed to reduce unemployment, and they were projects that had all shown that they cost only money and did not lead to any positive results. It was created, for example. project of the unemployed to public administration contact points - so-called Donez. The unemployed were supposed to report to the branches of the Czech Post at a certain hour to avoid working black. This project was quietly terminated by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs simply because it did not bring any effects. The public service system has changed. The newly involved people no longer had a chance to improve themselves by working within the public service system. Moreover, the effort to involve the long-term unemployed and the short-term unemployed in the public service was, of course, serious problems in terms of the debate on the political scene. The result was the complaint and the subsequent abolition of this institute by the Constitutional Court. Another project, which delayed workers from a more needed agenda, including active employment policy, was with Karts. This is a topic that has been mentioned so many times that I will no longer mention any details to him. You all know what kind of nonsense exercise it was, and you all know how it all ended. And I hope that the end will not mean extra spending from the state budget, so that perhaps, for God's sake, the Ministry will pay the bank that ran the whole thing, some money. She was trying to get rid of the authorities' work on one of their main agendas, and that's mediation. Mr. Drábek's idea was that private agencies would do it. The system was set up so that it never really started to work. So these were the ideas that were going on, they did not all go well, and it is evident that they contributed to gradually increasing the number of people without work in troubled regions. So much for what happened. Unfortunately, we can't draw a line behind this. Unfortunately, the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will spend tens and hundreds of hours to deal with skeletons falling out of closets after Mr Šišek, after Mr Drábek, especially in the field of functional information systems. Legally or economically, this will not be a simple situation at all. We can't put a black line behind this, we can't say it was here, let's forget it, let's focus on the future. This is simply not going to be easy in terms of the functioning of employment services. Yet let me look ahead now, so that I can focus on what can be done and what the government should do and what should happen. First - and now for a moment I will turn away from the classic agendas concerning the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I would like to look at the economic policy of the government. I am convinced that without changing the economic policy of the government, just by making better policies on employment offices or better active employment policies, we will not change trends. We are able to improve work with handicapped groups at the employment offices and a little bit shorten the time between losing their jobs and being able to rejoin the labour market. We may be able to involve more long-term unemployed in activation programs, but we cannot reverse the trend. What can reverse the trend is the change in the government's economic policy, that is, the form of the state budget, that is, the behaviour of key state institutions that can support growth and that can promote employment. [[14.50 hours]] The first topic I want to start with is the question of drawing funds from European Union funds. I am not at all pleased to say that we are the worst in Europe when it comes to drawing money from European Union funds, because last year we lost 10 billion crowns irreversibly, and the 27 combined lost about 16 billion crowns. So 10 billion were the Czech Republic. This year, we are at risk of losing CZK 24 billion, and the greatest risk is in the Operational Programme Environment, where money lies, which can naturally generate employment, if we are able to use it and invest it in projects of massive warming, for example, in projects of reducing energy intensity. So the first thing the government wants to change, and it has started working very hard on it, is not to allow us to lose money from European Union funds, and to minimize the losses that arise in connection with the fact that there have been errors in those systems. Focusing on this, the 24 billion risks this year must be minimized, and it is also important in these changes where there will still be some change at all, to direct the money to programs that support job creation. Another important thing for the government is the promotion of foreign investment. We need a positive turn here. We cannot offer the euro as Slovakia, we are not paying the euro yet in the Czech Republic, we cannot offer the extremely cheap workforce as Bulgaria and Romania, this is not the way for us. We cannot even offer tax dumping because we have almost a hundred billion state budget deficits. What we can offer is skilled labour. There are industrial zones in a number of regions in which we have invested and quality service from the government for new investments. And with that quality service, the government can now begin. We must return CzechInvest to the level at which it was at the time when Martin Jahn, for example, headed. CzechInvest was a model for similar agencies throughout the region. CzechInvest was a leader in attracting foreign direct investment. This is a long time ago. The agency almost died. The agency's already had the police. There were just a number of problems in recent years, destruction similar to what happened at the employment offices. We need to have a functional CzechInvest leading a renowned person and start intensively attracting new direct investments into the Czech Republic and focusing on regions where labour is also available. I'm talking about the Moravian-Silesian region, I'm talking about the Ústí Region. So government activity in the field of foreign direct investment. Second, export support. We need to use all the existing institutions, see that it doesn't steal, because what happened in ČEB and EGAP cannot leave us calm. The police have been there again in recent years. We need active economic diplomacy to focus on fast-growing markets. So export support and economic diplomacy. We must not waste time arguing between individual state institutions. We must not waste time thinking about their reorganisations, that we will merge them, divide them, and reunite them. All this costs energy, it costs money, and it just disgusts the last people who are willing to work for the state in these services. This means focusing on results, on efficiency instead of focusing on constant reorganisation. Thirdly, support for small, medium-sized enterprises, support for modernization of the Czech industry, use of the Czech Moravian Guarantee Development Bank, reduction of administrative burden on entrepreneurs, introduction of grant titles that support modern technologies, reduction of energy intensity. And now I am back with the European Union funds, which can help in a significant way. So many very briefly a few comments on the first axis of employment policy - and this is the new economic policy of the government. So not area cuts, but selective savings in the operation of the state, not raising VAT, not investment cuts or wage cuts. The new economic policy of the government focused on direct investment, export support, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, modernisation of our industry. Now, let me return to the office of employment in the final part of my performance. After the labour authorities - I hope - have dealt with the unfortunate legacy of Mr Drábek and we will once again have a functioning service of the state in the field of employment, it is important that we focus on new forms of active employment policy. New forms should focus on community service for people who are long-term unemployed. New programmes are being developed under active employment policy, for example in the area of support for part-time work. A job-sharing project is being developed between graduates and older workers. A home service project is being prepared to exploit the potential for job creation within the household service sector that is growing. This means that it would be possible to find application there for a number of people who are still in the register of employment offices today. In its programming declaration, the government has a project to reduce social security payments for members of groups who are handicapped in the labour market, i.e. people over 50 years of age, women after maternity leave, young people under the age of 30. So I assume that the Ministry will quickly prepare the relevant legislation so that it will be approved this year, so that at the latest by the beginning of next year we will be able to launch this new government project. I expect that he could really contribute to reducing long-term unemployment in these most vulnerable groups. Of course, the government is counting on continuing to use resources from European Union funds. This year, roughly CZK 3 billion is expected to be spent from national sources on active employment policy from the money that is already earmarked in the approved State Budget Act. Increased attention, and I stress this, will be given to regions where unemployment is high in the long term in terms of active employment policy. Again it is mainly the Ústecký Region and especially the Moravian-Silesian Region. At the beginning of this year, there was also an increase in the material support provided under the investment incentives to create new jobs as regards the subsidy for one new job. I suppose this could help fill the openings in industrial zones that still exist in these regions. I consider it very important that, as the labour authorities will now consolidate, cooperation between the labour offices in the regions, between municipalities, cities, regional authorities, between companies should be renewed. What I consider important, for example, in terms of graduate unemployment, will also be a new communication between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and between regions, so that we have sufficient information for further development of education in the field of secondary education. There we need to better target education in order to reduce the number of potential unemployed in the field of graduates. Even here, the labour authorities and the Labour Ministry should start playing a much more active role, and the authorities should communicate much more with each other. Ladies and gentlemen, naturally, I could speak even longer, but I think it was not the aim of the proposal for us to talk today about the current situation in the area of unemployment. I think it is necessary to give space and views of the opposition parties to make their comments, their proposals, their suggestions for the new government. The government's been here two weeks. Today, the government should discuss its programming statement with which it wants to come to the Chamber of Deputies on 18 February, when it will vote on its trust. I want to assure you, honourable Members, at the end of my speech that employment policy, the issue of promoting economic growth and creating jobs will be at the heart of the work and activities of the new government. This is one of the key strategic objectives that the new government is about to focus on. And just - because we've already had a part of the discussion here - let me finish one more comment. I am very happy to hear the views, recommendations and advice of the opposition parties. I would only ask when colleagues from the ODS or colleagues from the TOP 09 will appear to be saving with these advices, because they had seven years to show what they could do, and it turned out in the worst possible way. So when colleagues from ODS and TOP 09 recommend to the government how it should proceed, please think about what you yourself could have done for active employment policy in recent years, and think about what you actually did for the active employment policy and what tragic and disastrous way it turned out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I am launching a general debate in which the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek signed up first with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I also thank the Prime Minister for his unbiased contribution to political culture, when he said at the end of his speech: Now the opposition's views will need to be heard, but I would just like to ask that colleagues from ODS and TOP 09 keep their mouth shut. I think that in the last 20 years, no Prime Minister has ever dared, and I think, Prime Minister, that - [[The President reminds me: by means of me, please.]] I think, Prime Minister Gazdíkův, that you should not dare to do so either. But, of course, it's a matter of your taste, your political culture and your redneck upbringing. Prime Minister, I understand you have a lot on your mind. Nevertheless, please note that it is only after the election that a political government has been appointed and that even that government will ask for confidence next week and that there is no more election campaign. And that you have been asked by the Chamber of Deputies to address the issue of unemployment. I understand that this is extremely difficult in a liberal, open market economy - yet a little bit of a market economy, you have not yet ruled so long - that it is extremely difficult. Just the specific guidelines of an active government policy, which can, in some way, significantly reverse the trend that is here, are small. We who are involved in this know that the government's room for manoeuvre is not self-savability, that it is relatively very small. That, of course, the government must do everything in its power in the context of relevant economic policy. But I assure you that if you do not reduce unemployment by two percent in the next two years, as if you will not lower unemployment, if European demand does not start to run with a cape, we will not cheaply criticize you for failing to reduce unemployment, because we know well what the possibilities of active government action are and how much they can improve or simplify the situation. It struck me that the relatively dominant part of your speech was called Drábek. That name came up about 20 times. I am convinced that there is no way to draw a line behind this. I also believe that special-purpose campaigns and newspaper articles cannot be the only testimony of the work that Minister Drábek has done at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and that we will evaluate the effectiveness of the system, the rate of the unemployed and those who are really looking for the work and the really relevant objective figures achieved by Minister Drábek and achieved by the governments of the future. We'll get to that. And I'm also convinced that it's not possible to draw a line over it. But I don't understand why you're talking about this as someone who took over after Minister Drábek yesterday, or Secretary Marksová-Tominová, I'm sorry. That wasn't yesterday. Prime Minister, I would like to remind you that Minister Drábek left his post in October 2012 and that he has not been there for 15 months. And that, in the meantime, there was a government appointed by President Zeman, which you, your party, expressed confidence and took political responsibility for. She's been there about the same time as Minister Drábek was there before. Of course, I am willing to take political responsibility for the TOP 09 for all the steps that have taken at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs during the time of Minister Drábek. And I say again, once again, there's no way to draw a line over it. But it is absurd to believe that the government that asks for trust next week will be enough for two more years to blame Drábek for everything. The Drábek hasn't been there in 15 months. Before that, your government was there for a year, your political responsibility, and I ask you to sign up for it, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u5	Thank you to President Kalousek. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Furthermore, the Prime Minister signed up with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u6	Thank you. Let me point out that although Minister Drábek has not been a minister for a long time, I believe it is some 15 months, so I can assure you, Mr President, that to this day all the staff of the Office remember him. And it's not good. And if this spring we're reminded of the problem with dysfunctional systems at the employment offices again, it's not the legacy of Rusnokův's government, it's the legacy of Mirek Topolánek's government, or Petr Nečas. And I wouldn't be here at the end of my speech saying what I said if we came here to the Chamber of Deputies, all with a clean sheet, and none of us was responsible for what happened at the employment offices after 2010. But I just can't keep quiet about it. You are right, Mr President, Mr President. If the government were to make excuses for Mr Drábek in two years' time during the unemployment debate, that would be shameful. But we have every right now that the government has arrived and is there for two weeks, we have every right to say in what state we are taking over the Czech Republic. We have every right to say in what state we have found the employment authorities in. What happens at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. We have every right to say it, and I expect every minister to say it. That every minister would do an inventory of doing an audit of what he found in that department, what he found functional, what he found inoperable, what the state of lawsuits were threatening, and where there was a problem for the state to function. This is what the new government has to do. But he won't be making excuses for Mr. Drábek in a year or two. That will be her responsibility if she can cope with unemployment and if she can start an active employment policy. But here, Mr President, I stood behind this counter some time ago, and I literally begged you, on behalf of those employees of the Labour Office who were dealing with the collapse of the information system, and on behalf of those people whose social benefits they were entitled to have ceased coming out of the law, so I asked you here from this place, and I asked former Prime Minister Nečas to do something to intervene to end Mr Drábek's work at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. You ignored it back then. You ignored it, you let it alibis your own development, and then the police intervened, so Minister Drábek had to leave the Ministry's administration. But until then, he's done a great deal of damage, and we're still going to recover from the damage for a while. Yes, we can't draw a line, yes. But we need to name the problems that the new government is taking over from previous governments. And although Minister koníček was there, although Minister Koníček tried to solve some of the problems, it unfortunately failed to solve it in those few months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u7	Then we have two factual points. With the first factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u8	Hello. I would like to make one factual point about Mr Kalousek's speech. I have great respect when Mr Kalousek speaks because he is one of the personalities of this Parliament. And we can look at him negatively or positively, but he's one of those personalities. [[15.10 hours]] But you are here, sorry, through Mr President. Mr. Kalousek here said things that you can't not respond to. Mr. Kalousek spoke of 15 months of government to fix something after Mr. Drábek. In addition to the changes, the content changes on the MPSV, the profound changes from that little man Mr. Drábek to such enormous changes, no 15-month government can solve this. With that, this entire government will have a problem solving it for four years. What happened at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under the Government of the previous Minister of TOP 09, and the impact it had on the public, on people waiting for social benefits to be paid, on how the control system fell apart, on how social benefits grew, which cannot be controlled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, on the municipal authorities how they became defenceless, it simply cannot be repaired in 15 months. And I'd be very happy to see this government succeed in four years. Mr. Drábek will be deeply recorded in the history of the Czech Republic and in the history of the MPSV as one of the worst ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u9	With another factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u10	I certainly didn't think anyone should fix it. Mr. Drábek, after 20 years, has taken a crucial step towards getting out of the old order. Whether Minister Koníček or competing financial groups or anyone else will just try to get back into the old order at any cost, which is unfortunately what shouldn't have happened. Then we'll talk about how effective they were and how old they were and how efficient they were with the systems that Minister Drábek was trying to implement. This is only a response to Mr Foldyna. However, dear Prime Minister, if you don't mind, I had one question. How much longer do you want to make excuses for Minister Drábek and have him as a cliché? I heard it was two years. Well, two more years, you'll be making excuses for Minister Drábek and not after two years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u11	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Jan Bartošek, Vice-President of the House. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. With regard to the steps taken by the previous government, I mean the right-wing government, we can argue whether they have benefited or harmed this country. However, regarding the administration of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs TOP 09, the men who have been posted there, which is Minister Drábek and Deputy Šiška, I dare say that this is a truly admirable work that they have performed there. I think they've demonstrated the destruction of such a scale in the social system that, indeed, not six months, not a year, it's really a very short time to make up for the mess that's in there. Unfortunately, I was one of the people who filed various criminal charges, etc., I dealt with the whole case in the long run and I know that information was very difficult to get to. Thanks to our return to Parliament, we will continue to deal with this case, because I am convinced that not all things have yet been properly investigated and all things are well known. And really believe that it's not a question of what you've done and how much you've saved. For me, the question is, how much more is this state going to lose because of your involvement on the MPSV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u13	I thank the Vice-President. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am getting used to the fact that in this hall there is a finger on both sides that has caused something. For us, there is a continuous election campaign and there are clichés. But if we're going to solve some problems, and that's definitely employment, let's be specific. The reason it's a few and they're repairable, though maybe not fast enough. What comes out of schools doesn't match the labour market. It's gonna take a while to change things around here, but these people aren't gonna get jobs because the labour market doesn't need them. Then, when we look at another group of people who are over 50, there are retraining programs going on that don't make any sense. Supporting entrepreneurship here seems like there's reverse personalization when European funds come in. This means - not I will come for money when I need it and what I need it for, but I have to adapt to the challenges and I have to adapt to how bureaucratic criteria are drawn up, whether they come from Brussels or from here. This is all wrong. The number of people who do not want to work is increasing. It's because they just lose their work habits and we drove them away from community service. I was talking about four specific issues that aren't clichés that don't point fingers and that we should be dealing with, and I'm very much interrogating myself for that. It's not just a matter of government, it's a matter of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u15	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Martin Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, he actually said it Pilný me. I wanted to say that in all the textbooks of assertivity and cohabitation, it is learned that things from the past should not be reproached if a relationship or partnership is to have a future. If we keep going back to the past, maybe we can go back to the Thirty Years War, so we're really not gonna do anything here. I think I'll suggest to the Rules of Procedure a change that the word past will be forbidden. I know it won't work, but it would be interesting. Please, my experience says the political memory of the audience is six months. If we think we're doing this election campaign, we're doing it for nothing, our voters won't even remember it in the local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u17	Thank you. With another proper application, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u18	Thank you. For the last time in this debate, I promise. In fact, Mr Pilný has already said this in a more noble way than I could. I wanted to ask the other Vice-President of the House if he realized what point he was speaking on. That he's stepping up to the point of dealing with unemployment. And if he believes he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies to spit at any point on the work of his predecessors he doesn't know anything about, then let him ask his constituents if that's why they sent him to the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual... with a proper application by Mr. František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u20	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the gentlemen of the YES movement have already said so. I don't think the unemployed are interested in replaying Mr. Sobotka's vinyl records right now, which is a story from last term. The point is very clear. You're supposed to tell us what recipes you're gonna come up with. Or will it be Tuesday next week that you'll be coming? You really spent most of that time here. You don't know the recipes? The only thing I've noticed here is that you'll be supporting foreign investment. I'm asking why we don't finally start supporting those domestic investors. It is probably still a few Czech economies, Czech industry, Czech banking is in foreign hands. Otherwise, there was nothing. Consider that there is no doubt that the state administration, the labour authorities, or whatever it is called, are top-notch in all Western European countries, while in a number of cases, except perhaps Germany, they have dramatically higher unemployment. That means I don't think there's a recipe key. There's nothing to say about how you treat our businessmen, those who create jobs. I would still understand, and populistly, since you've been showing off here for four years, if not more, populism, I'd ask if there's a specific number, how many e.g. you will try to create jobs for your term of office. In the United States, the president always shouts out how many will be provided or how many will be new jobs. Nothing in particular. That's why I understand you have to live in the past. [[15.20 hours]] But the request from the House was clear: what are your recipes, what do you come up with to reduce the disastrous number of the unemployed? And you didn't say anything about that. So if someone else doesn't do it, I will re-design this item at the next House meeting and ask again. You may learn this after a few months or years, and you may finally come here to actually specifically offer people what can be done in the framework of the possible, because the vast majority of these problems are not lying, even in the power of the solution to our Republic, but you can still help something. Well, at least I don't want you to present yourself here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u21	With another proper application, Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you should have identified the rapporteur for this point, and that is usually the first one to debate. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we will probably return to the employment issue at this meeting in connection with the disabled, at the next meeting at second reading with the employment of foreigners, and I believe that there will be proposals that will help to reverse the relationship with employment that has been created in recent years. I'm not going to say anything new when I say that unemployment is a natural state in the market economy, and part of the population is not able on the labour market, and in many cases willing to find paid employment. This natural state swells with its accompanying phenomena especially during a period of crisis when we talk about cyclical unemployment as an ulcer on capitalist societies, which is the current state. The right argues mostly that the comparison of the Czech Republic within the European Union is not so bad. In other words, the miserable index, transferred from the US, i.e. the sum of inflation rates and unemployment rates, is not the worst. However, I see the problem in what is hiding in and outside the statistics. I want to talk about the fact that the current situation is worse than it is reported. I will not discuss the category of voluntary, temporary, structural, seasonal, hidden and cyclical unemployment, but I will focus on the fact that even the quoted statistics do not portray the real situation faithfully. Yet, they point to dangerous trends. Well, I'll take a little education then. Please note that we are operating with various statistical data. According to the International Labour Organisation methodology, an unemployed person who is over 15 years of age is actively looking for work and is ready to start work within 14 days. However, these statistics always indicate a lower percentage of the unemployed and are used in particular in comparison with each country. In our media, we are working more closely with the concept of unemployment rate, which is a share of the unemployed to all persons able to work, i.e. employed and unemployed. But for example, the Czech Statistical Office works with the general unemployment rate category, which is based only on a representative sample. On the other hand, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs works with the category of registered unemployment rate calculated from data administered by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. However, the calculation methodology has already been amended twice in 2004 and subsequently in 2013. Understand - changed in such a way that there has always been a reduction in the number of unemployed people using statistics. It is therefore misleading to compare the data without conversion in the time series, yet so often it happens. Let me give an example: in 2004, according to the old methodology, unemployment was 10.2, according to the new methodology 9.2, according to the current methodology somewhere at 8.3. So if we compare the situation in these numbers, we're in a completely different comparison. Why am I talking so much about this? Just because none of the statistics reveals the real state of things, the real number of those who want to work and cannot. The constitutional right to work is just a declaration to them. It does not reveal those who have obtained part - time work, but want to secure their households' living costs by working full - time. Unfortunately, not only they, but also a number of full-time employees have so low incomes that they have to apply for welfare benefits. Thus, the low purchasing power of most citizens cannot increase demand and thus neither production nor thus reduce unemployment. A vicious circle. A serious social problem, but also an economic problem, is mainly long-term unemployment, where the unemployed do not have a job for more than one year. In such a case, it is very difficult to return to the work process and the citizen does not rarely resign. It gets into the circle of life of the client of uninsurable social benefits, in the worst case the descending trajectory outside this cycle. And then just one step closer to worsening physical and mental health, gambling and loan shark addiction, executions, homelessness, alcoholism, or drugs, simply social exclusion, or even suicide, which is increasing year after year. We often return to the crisis of real life in the mail. I think we have a few examples of citizens complaining about their life situation, of the problems they have, where to get a job, especially where the distance from Prague is increasing in kilometers. During the period of criticized real socialism, unemployment was not unemployment and sustenance was a crime. However, pejoratively, so-called overemployment is being picked up at that time. But I ask: Isn't the huge increase in the army of civil servants and institutes of community service or public services currently being discussed in the form of artificial employment? If it helps citizens, of course, this too is welcome, but it certainly does not address unemployment. On the one hand, foreign workers, students, old-age pensioners and the so-called black workforce enter our labour market. Not so that she specifically nods with the social system, but because it is advantageous for employers. It's hundreds of thousands of workers, no tens. On the other hand, on 31 January 2014, a total of 629 274 people were looking for work in the Czech Republic. This is 32 441 unemployed more than in the previous month and 43 465 more than a year ago. On the contrary, 49 005 clients have left the register, that is, that is, the completed registration, the removal from the register, those are those who accumulate outside our registration system and make up, according to various estimates, 150 to 300,000 citizens. It is therefore 20 780 more than in December and 5 998 more than in January 2013. Only 29,573 people gained the new job, of which only 2,550 through the employment office. [[15.30 hours]] Few are aware that unemployment reduces citizens' retirement into early permanently reduced pensions. In 2012, there were 27 852 citizens who went into early permanently reduced pensions, and in 2013, 27 309 citizens were already involved. So, when we compare the end of 2012, 523 886 early pensions were paid there in total, and by the end of 2013, 543 356 early pensions were already paid there. Thus unemployment is statistically reduced at the expense of the pension account, as these citizens were forced to solve their complex economic difficulties by leaving early retirement, thus not paying pension insurance and early pension benefits. This is also one of the reasons for increasing the deficit in the pension account. Dear colleagues, I just wanted to show that the problem is much more complex. That in this system employment and unemployment will always be a problem and no incentives will help unless domestic sales of goods and services increase. That's the only thing that can help. Every incentive that is created for risk groups, whether it be practice-free graduates, women or men after parental leave, disability or seniors just before retirement age, each aid from one of those groups is pushed out of the labour market by another group that does not have the support. If sales cannot be increased, it is quite difficult to talk about the fact that we have done something in this area. I'm from Moravian-Silesian County. You certainly know the situation there - after the decline of mining problems with Paskov and other three shafts in Karvinsko, problems in Bruntálsko or Karvinsko, which have long been among the highest unemployment districts. I was glad that the previous government - I think the government of Jiří Rusnok - tried to help this region at least in some way. I would like the new government, if it gains confidence, to pay attention to the affected regions of Moravian-Silesian and Ústí, as well, but not to social benefits and support, but to real employment. I guess today we have no choice but to take information, no matter what opinion we may have of it, to note. But in any case, we should deal with this problem regularly. Not only draft laws, but also analytical reports and an assessment of the effectiveness of the various forms and methods that the Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will apply to be discussed in this plenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u23	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek. Furthermore, I thank the honourable Member for the warning. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please excuse my inexperience. I did not designate the rapporteur as the first speaker, but unfortunately the first speaker is not here. I therefore dare to ask Mr Laudát - he has a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, of course I do not wish to deprive Mr Rykala of his speech, however, given what the Prime Minister has presented here, I am giving a procedural proposal to prepare for this matter better and that this point should be interrupted by the next meeting and then continued when he is properly prepared and actually comes up with concrete rational proposals on how to address this burning problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u25	There has been a procedural proposal that has been put to the vote without debate. I therefore put to the vote on Mr Laudát's proposal to interrupt this point. I'm signing you all out. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I also ask my colleague, Mr Laudát, to make it very clear by which time he wants to interrupt the proposal. When the Prime Minister comes, it's not a very clear time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u26	Please until the next meeting, I mean March.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u27	So, until the next meeting. Until the beginning of the next meeting. I am voting on Mr Laudát's procedural proposal to interrupt this point until the beginning of the next meeting. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 111. 126 Members and Members are enrolled, for 28, against 66. This proposal has not been adopted. The Minister of Finance is also reporting for the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u28	Mr President, fellow Members, hello. I was so surprised last night how many employment contributions were made here today. And I would try to answer Mr Laudát through Mr President, how specifically we would like to do so. I think it's relatively simple. We had tripartite yesterday, there were employers, and they were telling us exactly what would change here. And maybe it would be good to actually put yourself in the position of an investor, what an investor is considering when he wants to invest and employ people here. And I think it is the same with the Czech investor or foreign investor. Before the election I had meetings with almost all mixed chambers of commerce, Czech-American, Czech-German, Czech-French etc., and most investors say the same things. So first of all, each investor considers the state's tax attractiveness. In this I think we are doing quite well, although the tax quota is, of course, higher today than in Poland and Slovakia. The cost of work is relatively high. We're almost 49 percent, so we're worse off there, and there's no big space. And, of course, he's assessing the transport infrastructure. I find it absolutely scandalous that 24 years since the revolution we've been driving on D1, which I think Lubomír Štrougal Štrougal. Where 25 billion were supposedly invested. Nothing at all. We don't have connections to Austria, we can't even make Lovosice-Ústi, 11 kilometers. We don't have a highway network. And of course we don't even have fast trains because Čech aren't working mobile. They have trouble going from Pardubice to Brno. If we had speed trains, they might be coming from Ostrava to Brno. If that train were to run 260 at least, like TGV runs. Administrative burden. The state is harassing businessmen instead of being helpful to meet. Even in Sweden, the clerk will make your own tax returns and ask if he filled it out. Well, last but not least, it's corruption. That's why we're falling in the competitiveness charts. Corruption is a big problem. That's what most foreign investors will tell you. [[15.40 hours]] And the public administration's amenities. Before the elections, I visited ABB in Brno, for example, one of the biggest investors. They wanted to build a new hall where they wanted to employ 500 people. The Magistrate has been suing them for about 15 years. And then we have the price of energy that's important. We've got tanning salons - it's gonna cost us a thousand billion. Still no one really knows who the 25-mile subsidies are. We pay every year. If we are talking about employment, then of course we must also compare ourselves with the surrounding countries. In East Germany, if you want to invest, they'll give you a third in cash. Those aren't even incentives. There's a lot of competition. And if we're talking about employment and we think that we're going to change something quickly and that there's going to be a miracle, this situation is just a consequence of what's been going on in this country for the last 20 years. And if someone expects the new government to do miracles and that someone is going to invest in Bruntálsko, it probably won't, and I think we need to start from the beginning and really make the Czech Republic more attractive. Even as stupid as the Turkish ambassador told me that there was a delegation of entrepreneurs here and some wanted to invest, but our embassy in Ankara, or where it is, or in Istanbul the consulate, so even though we are, of course, within Schengen, we give visas for three days, single-entry. The Francouz gives for three months, he's also Schengen multiple, so why should the Turek be investing here? And so on. Then, of course, these are foreign relations, about China, India and so on. And then we should also have literate people who are able to find foreign investors, because they don't come and they're very competitive. These are some basic things that are a condition for employment here. Of course, this also applies to Czech investors. Why would anyone invest in a factory in Karlovy Vary if there's no freeway? That's basically from my point of view, which way it could go. And if someone's expecting a miracle and someone thinks we're gonna say some number here that I don't know what we're gonna do in two years, then I think as long as it goes somewhere, this country, it's gonna take too long to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u29	Thank you, Minister. Now, if you don't mind, I will return to the designation of the rapporteur. The important rule is that we ask the first speaker in the debate. The first speaker was Mr Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, please, I ask you whether you are willing to take up the role of rapporteur for this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u30	Mr President, I really appreciate the confidence, and at any time I really like it very much, but here I am asking all of you to understand. I am convinced that I do not intellectually reach most of the discussions that have been made, and so I am asking someone more flexible to do so, and I am asking you to understand your own mental limits. Otherwise, I will take advantage of the situation and respond to the First Vice-President of the Government. Indeed, none of the rationally thinking people expect miracles from the government, Mr First Vice-President of the Government through Mr President. The problem is, you promised miracles, so now it's up to you to show them off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u31	I thank Mr Kalousek. Though this was not a trust, it was a custom that rests on it. That is why I would like to ask Vice-President Jermanová to take up the role of rapporteur. Does anyone object to this procedure? No, so thank you. I shall put to the vote that Vice-President Jermanová be the rapporteur on this point. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 112 voting. 142 Members and Members are registered, for 126, against none. Thank you, we have designated the rapporteur for this item, Vice-President Jermanová. Furthermore, I have here, with a factual remark from the President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'm one of those who doesn't expect miracles from any government. As I said yesterday, when we discussed the inclusion of this point, it is not a government that creates jobs and jobs. Even today's debate shows, in my opinion, the legitimacy of my skeptical view of the fact that at each meeting this item will be included and we will talk about unemployment in general. We are planning to have concrete bills here that can improve the situation for those who actually create jobs. However, I would like to say that the government can take the wrong steps to make this worse. We consider it a false step to what appeared in the draft programming declaration - raising the minimum wage. We will repeatedly say that this will not lead to an increase in the number of jobs. And then I think we need to learn from the mistakes made by the House and not repeat them. When the Act on the Promotion of Renewable Resources was once voted on, my political party was the only one against it. You can read the comments of my colleagues who were here at the time acting as the Civil Democratic Party and who warned about the approach and procedure that had taken place. And he's about to repeat. Although the Prime Minister declares that he wants to stop the price increase, his party colleagues support a new approach by the European Union, which will continue to increase the share of renewable resources, to continue to increase efficiency, and that means making conditions worse for entrepreneurs and households, to make energy prices worse. We can still stop it! It is enough that our Prime Minister does not have to prove to be one that will always be with the mainstream in March, and I do not think that these are the fantasy-magorical plans of people who will continue to drive Europe as a whole into a competitive disadvantage against other fast-growing economies and traditional economies like America. We can still stop it. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So that in five or eight years others would not sit here and say, "Jesus, what is the Czech Republic committed to? As we slow down the solarium, and the thousands of billions that end up in God knows where."
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another factual remark, Mrs Konečná. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I won't hold you up. I'm just so excited about how the ODS is constantly playing the defender of those who pay expensive energy prices here. It was you, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, who were here in 2008 for your - then Topolánkův - government with Minister Říman as Minister of Industry and Trade knew about the problem. It was also you who then implemented the government for the year, which was a link, a coalition of the ODS and the ČSSD. Don't make excuses for not knowing, because you just didn't do anything. Maybe you've been waiting for all of you to finish your tanning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u35	In addition to the factual remark made by Mr Stanjura. With another factual point or with priority rights, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u36	I'm not going to turn to my fellow Member through the President, it's just an old classic trick. The culprit isn't the one who set the fire by voting here. The culprit is the one who may have come to put out the fire. And we're gonna keep reminding you over and over that it was you and you and you who voted in favour of the bill and the political parties that aren't anymore. And it was our government that started to slow down, and you warned about it. We've stopped, maybe too late. Look at your bills. Take a look at each of you's shares that you pay in your accounts, and look at each year from 2005 to 2006. The problem arose in 2010 after such an extremely popular Fischerův government worked here. We've been here since March 2009... it wasn't our government. So look at this, the bills, look where the problem really came from. And most importantly, you who voted in favour may say the firefighters were late, but you started the fire.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u37	Thank you, honourable Member. Furthermore, with priority rights, the Minister of Finance. [[It is said from the hall that a factual remark takes precedence.]] Sorry. Mr. Secretary, was that a factual or a priority right? Really, so really 30 seconds. Please. You really have priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u38	I'm sorry. I don't know the parliament yet. I would just like to reply to Mr Kalousek through Mr President that the YES movement has actually fulfilled those promises by not raising taxes. That was our basic promise to the voters. And the second one that we're gonna meet is that people who are busy over 50 and graduates aren't gonna pay social contributions. Those were two major programs. As for Mr Stanjura. I don't come out of amazement. He's asking where the money went. You don't know? So ask your godfather Ivo Rittig, Amun.re.Re . And CEZ bought for 10 billion. solariums. And who was behind this? If you had adopted the law and we knew who the owner of the companies that are trading with the state and who are still receiving subsidies, you would know that. And I'm sure you'd find a lot of former colleagues from Topolánkův's government there. The so-called Tuscan gang.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u39	With another factual remark, Mrs Konečná. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u40	I'm sorry, but maybe worse than being late for a fire is refusing to put it out at all. In 2008, the then head of the Energy Regulatory Office, not only to the Chamber of Deputies Committees, but also to the Minister of Říman, was clearly telling the figures as they go up. You just refused to do anything. So don't blame others. It is as much your fault as the fault of Mirek Topolánek's then government and the guilt of Mr Fischer's then government, which you supported, my colleague! Along with social democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u41	Thank you, Madame. I'm just reminding you that we're discussing the government's report on the solution to unemployment. prosit, with a factual remark, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u42	That is certainly true, but false information must be correct. For example, the one that was heard from the Minister of Finance. You were wrong not even in that remark, Minister, when you were talking about raising taxes. Tax legislation is a part of the rule of law. And I am sure that this year you will personally submit amendments to the Chamber of Deputies, which will propose an increase in taxes compared to this applicable legislation. So you're not even right here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u43	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u44	I've only had a short time. Mr Komárek is not present, but when he spoke so wisely about how we should not go back to the past and solve the problems, you all applauded. And when your boss, as you say, spoke and talked only about the past, you applauded again. Take your pick. He can't pay both. I don't really care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u45	Thank you, honourable Member. And now he's finally getting a proper application for Mr. Adam Rykala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know, we should address the Government's report on dealing with unemployment in the Czech Republic, commenting on the latest unemployment figures published by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I think that's a much more important point than the rendering law that we've been discussing here, the abolition of the rendering law. I think this is much more important than the obstructions and breaks that the opposition is taking advantage of. It's a good thing we got to him. And I would thank the Prime Minister and the coalition that they voted in favour of this point and that the Prime Minister agreed to vote on the opposition proposal because in the past, when social democracy at the House wanted to address unemployment and to include a new government report on unemployment, the TOP 09 and the ODS did not want to discuss such matters. You know, I could attack Mr. former finance minister Kalousek here, too. I could be attacking representatives of the TOP 09 here, as we were witnessing at the beginning of this debate, when two members of the TOP 09 attacked the Prime Minister. I could say that former finance minister Kalousek here has mystified both the House and the public by saying that they were responsible for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs last 15 months. Well, that's not true. Mr. Drábek quit 15 months ago. But for Mr. Drábek, the so-called Minister - Drábek in skirts, Mrs. Müllerová. The last Rusnokův government did not rule for 15 months and could not solve the unemployment situation in this country and the situation, how to say this, so as not to offend anyone, with a mess at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But I think, let's not really go back to the past. It is appropriate that we discuss what we will do with the future, how to deal with the situation in our country, and perhaps how to take action together to help the Czech economy and reduce unemployment in the Czech Republic. 629 274 - this is the current unemployment issue. It is the highest number in the history of the Czech Republic. And we must immediately reduce this record-breaking unemployment rate, whether active employment policy, and, of course, by starting the Czech economy. The question is how to do it. The previous government has taken the first step, so that it has appointed an agent for the Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region, which it should also have. address unemployment in these affected regions. A government agent, however, is not enough. The unemployed are everywhere. In accordance with the coalition agreement, we have several medications that the House must enforce. The mistake that we must not repeat, and which the former right-wing governments have shown here year after year, is the strangulation of investment. The state must invest in infrastructure construction. In this I welcome the words of Prime Minister Sobotka, who publicly declared support, for example. invest in connecting the industrial zone in South Moravia with the world. I believe that the government will not only support investment in South Moravia, but in all regions of the Czech Republic, throughout the Czech Republic. It is necessary to update the D1 motorway as efficiently as possible, to start construction of the northern coupling, to repair the railway connections between regional cities quickly and, last but not least, to motivate the regions and cities to invest in their ownership. Furthermore, it is undoubtedly necessary, and perhaps controversial for some of you, to continue the completion of the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant, to open a discussion on the repairs and expansion of Dukovan and also to modernise thermal power plants. Of course, we also have a task for our regions and cities, whether it is to support investments in reconstruction of hospitals, reconstruction of schools, kindergartens, construction of playgrounds for children etc. Those are things that we can't solve here at the House level. It has already been discussed that it is necessary to return to vocational education, that it is necessary to look at a situation where thousands and thousands of philosophers, thousands and thousands of economists come out of universities each year and are unable to apply to the labour market. Of course, we also have to figure out where we're going to get the money for the investments and repairs. We currently have resources, we just can't use them: meaningful extraction from European funds, effective government, promotion of a business environment or active foreign diplomatic policy of the state. [[16.00 hours]] This is what we need, and given the coalition agreement of the government parties, I firmly believe that the described points of Bohuslav Sobotka's government will soon be fulfilled by the government, even if it is not easy. But the state can't just be active, it can't just be entrepreneurs, regions or our cities. Of course, the unemployed in the Czech Republic who are looking for jobs must be active, but unfortunately they cannot apply in the labour market. That is why the labour authorities must start working, helping people to actively look for jobs and to find vacancies. Ladies and gentlemen, let us finally open our eyes. Let's face it, let's stop fighting. I think that our aim and the aim of all Members, and it does not matter which political party we are, is to reduce unemployment in our country. We can attack a new government, but this government hasn't even gone through a vote on trust. Let us give her time to show her what she can do in the Czech Republic, give her space to start the Czech economy and reduce unemployment. And let's all wish her luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u47	I thank Mr Rykal. I have an apology for today's meeting. As of 5:00 p.m., Mr. Zimola apologizes. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. Mr. František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u48	I won't hold up any longer. I just want to resist attacking the Prime Minister. I think he started this controversial spirit because he didn't understand that the assignment - at least I hope the assignment was: tell us how you're going to deal with unemployment. Today, those people who don't have a job and look at us, of course, will say, Ježíš Krist, that gives us a good perspective! So I'll be more specific. At the next meeting in March, I will come up with a proposal to discuss the item Solutions of Unemployment 2014 to 2017. And what I want to hear here is: how it will look with taxes; how it will help small, medium and large entrepreneurs; how education will be directed to return from the production of political scientists to decent craftsmen; how to help people with education in natural sciences; how you do, or simply help to get the results of science through innovation into industry, into production; how you make cohesion policy where it really burns - how Jesenicko opens up, how Karlovy Vary and other and other regions open up, that is, cohesion policy. And that's what I want to hear here, not some memory of the past. And I think the unemployed want to hear it too, and qualified and well-founded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u49	I thank Mr Laudát. Another with a proper application is Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Although I am somewhat indisposed, after all, colleagues and colleagues, I will be involved in the debate because I also feel that unemployment is the biggest problem in our country. The situation on the labour market is really the worst in the period that the Czech Statistical Office compares, in the situation -
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u51	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. The Member politely asked that he be indisposed, so I will ask everyone to remain calm so that we can all hear him out. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u52	Thank you, Mr President. The situation on the labour market is indeed the worst during the period that the Czech Statistical Office compares, even though there are positive signals about the recovery of Czech industrial production. I would like to remind you that the problems with high unemployment are not limited to the regions where a government agent operates. An example is also my Zlín Region, where unemployment is 8.75 percent, which is 35,500 people. The number of job applicants increased by 4.4 per month, while the number of job vacancies reported decreased by 33 per cent. Yes, 33 percent! And even though this unemployment rate is just above the national average, unemployment affects 10 percent in Vsetín and Kroměříž, but there are border regions where unemployment exceeds 20 and 25% in our country. The entire solution to the fight against unemployment and increase in employment must affect the entire territory of the Czech Republic. Although active employment policy has improved in recent periods - but in my opinion very little - which has been devastated in the right-wing government, we cannot be satisfied. I want to say that I agree here with my colleague Pilný, through you, Mr President, who has mentioned the fundamental problems that the Czech Republic has, and I would like to say a few more examples. The Czech Republic has always been historically and is still a large industrial country. Maybe we don't realize that. Although large industrial enterprises may have died out, but small ones have been created, and these are currently faced with a shortage of workers, technicians, engineers. When I watch ads, they're not looking for administrative workers or sociologists, political scientists, but they're looking for technicians. One solution is, I really do not say reform of education, but some support for the government, support for the regions of technical education, and it has already been said here, the labour authorities must improve retraining so and in the direction needed by the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u53	Thank you, Mr Seďa. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u54	Once again, good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I know this isn't going to pass as a change in the Rules of Procedure, but it would be good if someone stood up here at the speaker's desk and said he didn't want to stall if he left him. We hear it 20 times every day. And then I would like to say that if this House deals with problems such as competitiveness or unemployment, as political problems and asks questions here - we have heard a list of questions from Mr Laudát - we will not get anywhere. Let's work together to move this. Anyone can ask questions. Let's look for answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u55	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Jiří Zlatuška. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u56	Thank you. Mr President, I would hate to stand up for political scientists here, but when Mr Laudát said it in this way, I would like to point out that if he were involved in an exact field, such as physics or something, he would be able to look at the statistics of the number of students who are really in Czech universities, he would find out from this point of view - and these statistics are available - that the number of students in techniques has not only been growing for two and a half decades, but that the number of political scientists is really negligible in relation to them. And if he wanted to be inspired abroad by the so-called movement. tea bags from the United States, I recommend to him an exceptional Senator Tom Coburn, who even banned the funding of political science in the United States. He probably didn't call it bourgeois science, but in a similar way. If he wanted to do something like this for our grant agency, I am very curious about such proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u57	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. With another factual remark, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u58	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling we are being born here Dr. Cvach of Czech politics. Maybe if he didn't take pictures of me running a club vote and look at my résumé, he'd know I was from the Physics Institute or I worked in technology for eight years, so I know what I'm talking about. [[A round of applause for Members of the TOP 09.]] I don't want to question anybody, I'm just saying that if Mr. Zlatuška thinks that the structure of Czech education is okay, then I think that the voters should pay back all the costs that the taxpayers cost when he worked in the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u59	And the shrink of factual remarks continues. Mr Chalupa, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u60	Very briefly. I would like to draw your attention back to the issue of unemployment, the financial flows relating to this problem. I'm going to talk about one thing, and that's called. Internship program in companies. This program is reported to have been attended by about 3,000 people, perhaps more today. The state paid the companies that realize this program from 140 thousand to - I don't know - CZK 160 thousand for the unemployed person working in such a company for four months for food stamps and for the payment of the fare. I'm going to be very interested in who invented this program and how many of these three thousand or more people have found work for more than three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u61	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Zlatuška. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u62	Mr President, if only you would have told Mr Laudát that, of course, I had looked forward to working at the Institute of Physics. I found that with such a small ability to work with quantitative data, a person could work in physics. [[Laughs in the hall.]] But so be it. And I warn him that the problem with the number of students in technicians is the problem of our primary and secondary education. Even if the technicians were to increase their finances tenfold, they would not get more qualified applicants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u63	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. That's the last of the shrinks of factual remarks. I do not, nor do I register any proper application for a general debate. If it is not, I will conclude the general debate and proceed to the debate in detail. I don't have an application for that either at the moment. The rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u64	I would just like to remind you that Mr Opálka has made a proposal that the House takes note of the Prime Minister's report on the solution of unemployment in the Czech Republic. We should vote on this proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2014-02-12-ps2013-006-06-004-078.u65	Okay, I'll put this motion to a vote. I will call our colleagues from the lobby and begin the vote on Mr Opálka's proposal, as the rapporteur has said, that the House takes note of the Prime Minister's report on unemployment. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 113. 153 Members are registered, for 105, against 25. We have adopted the report and that concludes the discussion of this point. We're going to go to the next point and that's
