ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U1	Hello, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the 6th working week of the first plenary session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson, has this wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U2	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic is launching a draft law amending the Waste Act, the Waste Act Amendment Act and the Waste Act and related amendments to other laws. Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U3	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. 21 Members of the Riigikogu who belong to the Reform Party Group submit an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The content of the inquiry is very simple. For years, it has been promised that a bigger plane will fly between Saaremaa and a better flight schedule will come. The Prime Minister promised some time ago in this big hall that he would do anything to make the bigger plane come and a better schedule the same way. But, oh surprise, on June 1, including this new, bigger and better-scheduled plane, unfortunately, doesn't start again. The previous government was on standby for a year and, therefore, the public procurement has probably not been carried out properly and correctly. At the beginning of May, the Public Procurement appeal committee cancelled this procurement, and once again we have to wait for the new procurement and the new disputes to end. Sad. But let's see if anyone is responsible for this and what the Prime Minister says about what he's doing to get a new and better scheduled plane on the line as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U5	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U6	Thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will present three draft decisions of the Riigikogu. First of all, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe': to appoint Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski as Head of Delegation, Eerik-Niles Kross and Jaak Madison as members, and to appoint Indrek Saar and Raivo Tamm as alternate members. Secondly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Estonian delegation': to appoint Kadri Simson as the Head of Delegation, Ants Laaneots and Sven Sester as members, and to appoint Leo Kunnas and Sven Mikser as alternate members. Thirdly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe': appoint Mart Nutt as the head of the delegation, Kerstin-Oudekki Loone and Heljo Pikhof as members, and Johannes Kert and Anti Poolamets as alternate members.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U7	Thank you. Next, Aadu Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture gives three draft decisions to the Riigikogu proceedings: the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the National Opera Board and the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the National Library of Estonia. It is the task of the Committee on Culture to submit all these drafts in accordance with the law. The Commission has carefully discussed the drafts and coordinated them with the political groups. Hopefully, these drafts will come to a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U9	Thank you. There are no further drafts or inquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted 7 drafts and 1 inquiry. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Next up, presence check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 6th working week agenda for the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 87 delegates in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U10	There are three drafts on today's agenda. The first of these is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The rapporteur is Jaak Madison, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided, at its meeting on 6 May, to initiate the establishment of a special committee on state budget control, and on the same day it was also put into proceedings in the large Chamber. The next day, on 7 May, a first-reading debate took place in the Commission. Indrek Saar, Hanno Pevkur, Mart Nutt, Oudekki Loone, Paul Puustusmaa, Vilja Toomas and the speaker here took part in the meeting. Proposals were made to put the draft on the agenda of the large Chamber by 13 May, i.e. today, to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10 a.m. on 14 May 2019 (consensus decision), to appoint the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur, i.e. the speaker (this was also a consensual decision) and to send the draft to second reading when the first reading is closed, by 16 May 2019 (this decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U12	Any questions for the Commission representative? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no wish for words. Pursuant to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the first reading of the draft 11 has been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 11 including 14 May at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U13	The next item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Establishment of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The rapporteur is Jaak Madison, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U14	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Also on 6 May including 6 May, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to initiate the establishment of a special committee on the supervision of security authorities. On the same day, this bill was also awarded to the Riigikogu proceedings. The following day, 7 May including the first-reading debate, which led to proposals to put this draft on the plenary agenda by 13 May (this was a consensual decision), to set the deadline of 14 May 2019 (also a consensual decision), to appoint the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur, the speaker (also a consensual decision) and to send the draft to second reading when the first reading is closed, by 16 May 2019 (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U15	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Pursuant to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the first reading of the draft 12 has been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft amendments, including 14 May at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U16	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee against Corruption presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The rapporteur is Jaak Madison, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U17	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As with previous drafts, the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took a decision on 6 May, and this time they decided to initiate a draft for the establishment of a special anti-corruption committee, which was also put into procedure on the same day. On the next day, 7 May, a first-reading debate was held, and it was finally discovered that the Commission decided to propose that the draft be tabled by 13 May 2019 (consensus decision). Proposals were also made to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 a.m. on 14 May (consensual decision), to appoint a speaker (consensus decision) as rapporteur and to send the draft to second reading when the first reading is closed by 16 May 2019 (this decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U18	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U19	Thank you. Do you also know the number of members on this committee how many members are there? And who are they by name?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U20	According to the draft, there will be 1 member in each political group, i.e. ultimately there will be 5 members in the committee. Due to the new Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which was adopted by the previous parliamentary formation, the members of the committee are no longer approved by a separate draft decision, but the members of the committees are appointed by the political groups and the compositions are approved by the Riigikogu Board. So these names are not yet in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U21	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U22	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Now that it has become a tense discussion, I have a common question about these three or at least two drafts. Did you not consider that if there was a Commission in which the opposition could play a leading role, then the number of members could at least be balanced? Did such a subject even arise, or is it too utopian?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U23	Thank you, Honourable Asker. This issue did not arise separately at the Commission meeting, not a single member of the Commission raised the issue that the number of members in the Commission could be determined in different ways. Everyone agreed in consensus that one member from each political group was appropriate and optimal. That was the end of the decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U24	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. According to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the first reading of the draft 13 has been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 13 amendments, including 14 May at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-13_U25	A free microphone follows. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Since there are no requests to speak, I declare the hearing closed. Closure of the sitting at 3.15 p.m.
